---

title: Autonomous delivery transportation network
abstract: Aspects of an autonomous delivery transportation network for the delivery of items are described. The network includes a central management system that directs the operation of a network of vehicles for delivering items. In one embodiment, the system receives a request for transportation including a pickup location, a delivery location, and item attribute data. The system analyzes the existing service routes of vehicles in the network to identify a vehicle compatible with the request. The system also estimates a delay to the existing service route of the vehicle with reference to the pickup and delivery locations and, when determining that the delay is acceptable, assigns the vehicle to service the request. When determining that the delay is unacceptable, the system may dispatch a new vehicle to join the network. The system may also communicate various aspects of service, such as estimated pickup and/or drop off times, to client devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09552564&OS=09552564&RS=09552564
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09552564
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150319
---
The transportation needs in most urban and suburban areas continues to grow. Among others such transportation needs include the needs of individuals to commute to and from work school retail outlets and other locations. The transportation needs also include the need to transport items among various locations. In an aim to satisfy these needs some municipalities have established public transportation systems that may be relied upon by residents for transportation among certain locations. The public transportation systems generally make use of vehicles such as buses to transport individuals among stops along a predetermined route at predetermined times.

As noted above the transportation needs in most urban and suburban areas continues to grow. Among others such transportation needs include the needs of individuals to commute to and from work school retail outlets and other locations as well as the need to transport items among various locations. In an aim to satisfy these needs some municipalities have established public transportation systems that may be relied upon by residents for transportation among certain locations. However such public transportation systems generally make use of vehicles that follow predetermined routes at predetermined times. As such these public transportation systems while fulfilling some needs come with some significant drawbacks for passengers. For example the public transportation systems offer relatively little flexibility in pickup and drop off locations for passengers and or cargo. In many cases passengers may not even be within walking distance of a service location for the system. Further the scheduled pickup or drop off times may be unsuitable or at best very inconvenient.

In that context aspects and embodiments of autonomous transportation networks are described herein. The autonomous transportation networks address many of the problems discussed above by offering on demand transportation service to and from nearly any location accessible by way of surface streets. A central management system of such a transportation network may be configured to optimize routes of several vehicles in a network of transportation vehicles for efficiency while accounting for service level parameters that vary over time. Vehicles may be added to and removed from the network of vehicles based on current service demands avoiding wasted resources when demand is low. Further in addition to transporting passengers the autonomous transportation networks may also be relied upon to transport tangible items goods groceries etc.

The vehicles may be embodied as any type of vehicle including but not limited to bikes carriages cars trucks vans buses aircraft etc. regardless of how powered or driven. Collectively the vehicles may be referred to as a network of transportation vehicles. Each of the vehicles includes an autonomous vehicle controller that controls its maneuvering operations on surface streets highways skyways parking lots etc. The autonomous vehicle controllers of the vehicles are in communication with the central management system via the network and receive pickup drop off delivery and other waypoint or similar location information by which to determine service routes.

The vehicles may be relied upon to transport anything capable of being moved including but not limited to individuals tangible items goods groceries etc. As illustrated in the vehicles are travelling respectively along routes . Further the route includes stops A C the route includes stop A the route includes stops A and B and the route includes stop A. The vehicles are not operating according to any particular routes and may be awaiting instructions from the central management system for example. In that sense the vehicles may be considered available or unallocated resources of the network of transportation vehicles.

As described in further detail below it is noted that the central management system may receive telemetry data from each of the vehicles . The telemetry data may include operating parameter data associated with the vehicles such as passenger and cargo capacity existing service route data planned stop data fuel level and system diagnostic data etc. This telemetry data may be stored in the transportation network data store for reference by the central management system .

Before turning to a more detailed description of the individual components and operation of the networked environment with reference to a concise description of the operation is described with reference to . In one example using a client device an individual may send a request for transportation to the computing environment via the network . Among other information the request may include a pickup location a destination location and a number of passengers. The pickup and destination locations and may be embodied in the form of geolocation information e.g. latitude longitude etc. .

In response to the request the central management system is configured to identify one of the vehicles which is compatible with the request . In that context the central management system may analyze the existing service routes of the vehicles to identify one having an existing service route and passenger capacity compatible with the request . As used herein an existing service route will be considered compatible with the request if the pickup and or destination locations may be incorporated into the existing service route without causing excess delay to the already existing pickup and or destination locations of the existing service route. Thus the request may be compatible if the locations associated with the request are sufficiently proximate to or otherwise reachable by the vehicle on the existing service route so as to not cause a delay that exceeds a permissible delay pursuant to a service level agreement covering the existing service route. For example the central management system may identify the route of the vehicle as being compatible with the request because the pickup and drop off locations and of the request are substantially aligned with proximate to or along the existing route . Further based on a comparison between the number of passengers in the request and the available passenger capacity in the vehicle the central management system may identify the vehicle as being compatible with e.g. capable of handling the request .

Once the vehicle is identified by the central management system as being compatible with the request the central management system may further determine whether the assignment of the vehicle to the request will cause an unsuitable delay to other passengers or cargo in the vehicle . It is noted that the vehicle carries multiple passengers for drop off at stops A and B and the central management system is able to reference this information in the transportation network data store . Thus in one aspect of the embodiments the central management system may estimate a delay to the existing service route of the vehicle based on the inclusion of the pickup and destination locations and in the route . For example modifying the route to include the pickup and destination locations and may cause the passenger destined for the destination location to be delayed.

The central management system may compare such delay in the route with one or more service level parameters of the autonomous transportation network to determine whether it is acceptable under the circumstances. If acceptable the central management system may assign the vehicle to service the request and communicate the pickup and drop off locations and to the vehicle . The vehicle may then store the pickup and drop off locations and into a location queue memory and autonomously update the route to incorporate the pickup and drop off locations and . If unacceptable the central management system may seek another one of the vehicles to service the request . For example the central management system may dispatch the vehicle to service the request .

The service level parameters of the autonomous transportation network may be defined as maximum or minimum service delay times for example or other similar service level metrics. In other aspects rather than or in addition to service delay times the service level parameters may be related to operating and or service charge costs time of day holiday or event constraints weather or meteorological conditions road conditions traffic or other relevant factors. Thus in addition to route compatibility the central management system may assign one of the vehicles to the request based on various operating and or service level parameters.

If the vehicle is identified by the central management system and assigned to service the request the central management system is further configured to calculate an estimated pickup time until the vehicle arrives at the pickup location . The central management system may also communicate the estimated pickup time along with an identifier of the vehicle to a client device of the user that submitted the request . Thus the user that submitted the request for transportation may receive a confirmation that the vehicle was assigned to fulfill his request along with an estimated pickup time until the vehicle is expected to arrive at the pickup location .

In other aspects of the embodiments the central management system may be configured to perform additional maintenance and or housekeeping activities in the autonomous transportation network such as verifying passengers directing doors or compartments of the vehicles to lock unlock or open under various circumstances receiving storing and analyzing vehicle telemetry data from the vehicles processing payment transactions for users receiving and responding to maintenance requests from the vehicles optimizing the routes of the vehicles for efficiency and or to adhere to service parameters etc.

In still other aspects of the embodiments a network of transportation vehicles may include one or more vehicles having compartments or cargo bays to store items for autonomous delivery. In other words one or more of the vehicles may include compartments or cargo bays in which items may be securely stored for transportation and delivery. Such vehicles may be directed by the central management system to pickup locations where one or more items are placed and stored in the cargo bays and then directed to one or more drop off locations along a service route for delivery. For example an individual may send a request for delivery to the computing environment via the network . Among other information the request may include a pickup location a destination location and description of an item to be delivered. The pickup and destination locations and may be embodied in the form of geolocation information e.g. latitude longitude etc. . In turn the central management system may direct the vehicle for example to stop for pickup of the item at the pickup location and deliver the item to the delivery location . The central management system may also verify a recipient of the item at or near the delivery location and permit access to e.g. unlock the cargo bay or compartment of the vehicle in which the item is stored.

As noted above the autonomous transportation networks described herein may address one or more of the limitations of public transportation systems. The autonomous transportation networks provide transportation service to and from nearly any location generate optimized routes for several vehicles in a network of transportation vehicles for efficiency while accounting for service level parameters that vary over time. Further in addition to transporting passengers the autonomous transportation networks may be relied upon to transport tangible items goods groceries etc.

Turning to a more detailed view of the networked environment in is illustrated. Beyond the computing environment the network and the vehicles illustrated in illustrates client devices and a network monitor client device . Referring to the computing environment illustrates user profiles transportation network data and vehicle telemetry data among other data that may be stored in the transportation network data store . also illustrates a request manager service route analyzer telemetry monitor and network maintenance supervisor of the central management system and a transportation network interface engine of the computing environment . Referring to the vehicle which is representative of the other vehicles illustrates an autonomous vehicle controller including a location queue a drive system a cabin access mechanism a communications interface one or more cameras a global positioning system GPS receiver one or more cargo compartments and a compartment access mechanism of the vehicle .

It should be appreciated that the components of the computing environment and the vehicle in are representative and not intended to be exhaustive or limiting. The computing environment and the vehicle may include additional and or alternative features elements or components than those illustrated in .

The computing environment may be embodied as one or more computers computing devices or computing systems. In certain embodiments the computing environment may include one or more computing devices arranged for example in one or more server or computer banks. The computing device or devices may be located at a single installation site or distributed among different geographical locations. As further described below in connection with the computing environment may include a plurality of computing devices that together embody a hosted computing resource a grid computing resource and or other distributed computing arrangement. In some cases the computing environment may be embodied as an elastic computing resource where an allotted capacity of processing network storage or other computing related resources varies over time. The computing environment may also be embodied in part as various functional and or logic e.g. computer readable instruction device circuit processing circuit etc. elements configured to direct the computing environment to perform aspects of the embodiments described herein. The operation of the individual components of the computing environment is described in further detail below.

The network may include the Internet intranets extranets wide area networks WANs local area networks LANs wired networks wireless e.g. cellular 802.11 based Wi Fi Bluetooth etc. networks cable networks satellite networks other suitable networks or any combinations thereof. It is noted that the computing environment may communicate with the client devices the network monitor client device and the vehicles using various systems interconnect models and or protocols such as hypertext transfer protocol HTTP simple object access protocol SOAP representational state transfer REST real time transport protocol RTP real time streaming protocol RTSP real time messaging protocol RTMP user datagram protocol UDP internet protocol IP transmission control protocol TCP and or other protocols for communicating data over the network without limitation. It is noted here that although not illustrated the network may include connections to any number of network hosts such as website servers file servers networked computing resources databases data stores or any other network or computing architectures.

The client device is representative of one or more client devices that may be relied upon by individuals to request transportation and or delivery services. The client device may be embodied as any type of computing device processing circuit or processor based device or system used by individuals including those embodied in the form of a desktop computer a laptop computer a personal digital assistant a cellular telephone or a tablet computer among others. The client device may include one or more system devices or subsystems such as wireless communications transceivers GPS receivers orientation and acceleration sensors etc. The client device may also include one or more peripheral devices. In this context the peripheral devices may include one or more input devices such as a keyboard keypad touch pad touch screen microphone camera etc.

As illustrated in the client device may execute applications such as the client application . As further described below the central management system may provide data to the carrier client application such as vehicle and or cargo compartment identifiers pickup drop off and delivery locations estimated arrival drop off delivery and delay times service status messages user verification information etc. The central management system may provide the data to the client application via an applications interface and or via one or more network pages. In one embodiment the client application may be embodied as a hypertext based internet browser such as Internet Explorer Firefox Chrome Silk or another type of browser or a variant thereof without limitation. Thus the client application may render network pages as webpages including user interfaces for interacting with the computing environment .

The network monitor client device is representative of one or more client devices. The network monitor client device may be embodied as any type of computing device processing circuit or processor based device or system including those embodied in the form of a desktop computer a laptop computer a personal digital assistant a cellular telephone or a tablet computer among others. The network monitor client device may also include one or more peripheral devices for user interfacing. In this context the peripheral devices may include one or more input devices such as a keyboard keypad touch pad touch screen microphone camera etc.

As illustrated in the network monitor client device may execute applications such as the client application . As further described below the transportation network interface engine may generate an interface including one or more network pages for example to be rendered as a user interface on the client device for directing the operation of the central management system and the autonomous transportation network. In that context the client application may be embodied as a hypertext based internet browser such as Internet Explorer Firefox Chrome Silk or another type of browser or a variant thereof without limitation. Thus the client application may render the network page as a webpage including a user interface for interacting with the central management system .

Turning to the vehicle the autonomous vehicle controller may be embodied as analog digital or mixed analog and digital processing circuitry and memory that direct the operation of the vehicle and the electromechanical drive system of the vehicle . In that sense the autonomous vehicle controller is an example of an embedded real time control system in which control outputs are produced in response to control input conditions. The control system may include various sensors such as cameras laser Illuminated detection and ranging sensors LIDAR radar etc. which may be relied upon to analyze the surroundings and develop control signals for operation of the drive system . Among embodiments the autonomous vehicle controller may perform the processing necessary to direct and operate the vehicle alone or in tandem with other computing systems including but not limited the drive system the computing environment and other computing devices and systems.

The autonomous vehicle controller may include memory areas that store data relied upon for navigation of the vehicle such as street image or view data roadway data navigation data etc. The autonomous vehicle controller is configured to rely upon feedback from its sensors and the drive system for example to develop an appropriate and suitable route for travel. The route may be determined primarily by the pickup destination and delivery locations communicated to the autonomous vehicle controller from the central management system and stored in the location queue as described herein.

Among the embodiments the autonomous vehicle controller may be integrated with the drive system of the vehicle in any suitable manner to permit the autonomous vehicle controller to control the operations of the vehicle including but not limited to the acceleration braking turning signal and lamp operation etc. In that sense the autonomous vehicle controller may be electrically mechanically and electromechanically integrated with the drive system and the other elements of the vehicle .

As illustrated in the autonomous vehicle controller includes the location queue . The location queue may be embodied as a memory area where geographic locations or waypoints may be stored by the autonomous vehicle controller . The locations such as pickup destination and delivery locations may be communicated to the vehicle from the central management system and stored separately by the central management system . Using the locations the autonomous vehicle controller may be configured to determine an appropriate and suitable route for the vehicle . When a destination is reached a location may be removed from the location queue and the vehicle may proceed to the next location stored. Once provided with one or more locations by which a route may be determined the autonomous vehicle controller may operate independently or at least substantially independently from the central management system . In other words as described herein the primary concern of the central management system is to direct and optimize routes of the vehicles individually and collectively in the autonomous transportation network while the primary concern of the autonomous vehicle controller is to direct the operation of the vehicle according to the pickup destination and delivery locations provided by the central management system .

The drive system may be embodied as the powertrain and associated electrical mechanical and electromechanical systems and associated control and diagnostic systems of the vehicle . Thus the drive system may include one or more engines motors transmissions steering braking and other systems to control the movement of the vehicle on surface streets parking lots etc. As noted above the drive system operates the vehicle at the direction of the autonomous vehicle controller .

The cabin access mechanism may be embodied as the mechanisms that control access to the passenger cabin of the vehicle such as door locks power doors etc. In some embodiments the cabin access mechanism may be directed to lock unlock open and close one or more doors to the passenger cabin of the vehicle at the direction of the central management system .

The communications interface may be embodied as one or more physical layer communications systems and associated software interfaces for communication between the vehicle and the computing environment via the network . In that context the communications interface may include one or more wired or wireless e.g. cellular satellite Wi Fi Bluetooth etc. communications interfaces. Among other data the communications interface may be relied upon to receive location information from the central management system for example and to communicate geolocation telemetry video audio and other data from the vehicle to the central management system .

The cameras may be embodied as one or more cameras having a field of view within the passenger cabin of the vehicle and a field of view outside the vehicle . Using the cameras still images and or video may be relayed from the vehicle to the computing environment where it may be stored as part of the vehicle telemetry data . The images and video may be relied upon by the central management system to control the operation of the autonomous transportation network and provide operators of the autonomous transportation network with operational awareness information. Thus video monitoring and continuous recording may be relied upon for both the inside and outside of the vehicles . The GPS receiver may be embodied as a receiver configured to receive and demodulate global positioning system beacons and identify the geographic location of the vehicles as they move from place to place.

The cargo compartments may be embodied as one or more compartments or cargo bays to store items for autonomous delivery. Using the cargo compartments items may be securely stored for transportation and delivery by the vehicle . The cargo compartments may be individually separated from each other each having a separate access door for example similar to security lock boxes. Access to the doors may be controlled individually by the compartment access mechanisms . The compartment access mechanisms may include mechanical or electromechanical locking unlocking and access mechanisms that permit controlled access to one or more of the cargo compartments . As further described below the central management system may direct the compartment access mechanisms to unlock and or open one or more of the cargo compartments after verifying the identity of an intended recipient of an item or package stored therein. The verification may occur based on the exchange of a secret or other verification code recipient client device authentication facial or biometric recognition or other means.

In various embodiments the cargo compartments of the vehicle may vary in size for the transportation of larger or smaller items. The central management system may store data representative of the passenger and cargo carrying capacity of the vehicle and the number of passengers and items currently carried by the vehicle over time so that it can identify whether the vehicle has available capacity to service requests for transportation and delivery. The cargo compartments may be distinguished from the passenger compartment of the vehicle which includes seating for passengers in the vehicle . It is noted that certain vehicles in a network of transportation vehicles may omit the cargo compartments and instead be configured for the transportation of passengers only. Similarly vehicles may omit passenger compartments and instead be configured for the transportation of items or packages only.

Turning to the computing environment the transportation network data store includes user profiles transportation network data and vehicle telemetry data . The user profiles include data on various users or customers of the autonomous transportation network administered by the central management system . For example the user profiles may include actual or representative photographs or images username and password combinations name address and billing information form of payment information contact information service history data etc. Generally when a user of the client device for example installs the client application for the first time the user may be requested to agree to certain terms and conditions and create an account with the computing environment . The account information for the user may be stored in the user profiles for reference by the central management system .

The transportation network data includes data related to one or more vehicles in a network of autonomous vehicles such as the vehicles among others. The transportation network data may include unique vehicle identifier information e.g. vehicle identification numbers VINs etc. make model or other related vehicle information passenger and or cargo capacity information service and or maintenance history information and other vehicle related information. The transportation network data may also include current location information for the vehicles . The location information may include global positioning data e.g. latitude and longitude data for example received from the vehicles over time.

The transportation network data may also include service level parameters for the autonomous transportation network. The service level parameters may be defined as maximum or minimum service delay times for example or other similar service level metrics for the network. In other aspects rather than or in addition to service delay times the service level parameters may be related to operating and or service charge costs time of day holiday or event constraints weather or meteorological conditions road conditions traffic or other relevant factors. Thus the central management system may assign the vehicles to requests for transportation or delivery service based on various operating and or service level parameters.

The vehicle telemetry data includes measurement and analysis data received from the autonomous vehicle controller of the vehicle for example as well as from the other vehicles . This telemetry data may include on board diagnostic ODB measurement data from the vehicles such as diagnostic trouble codes door open closed indicator fuel efficiency vehicle speed RPM fuel level trip data oxygen sensor on board computer monitoring and testing vehicle software version emissions radar sensor and other data. Further the vehicle telemetry data may include still picture and or video feed data captured from the cameras of the vehicle as well as from cameras of the other vehicles .

The central management system includes the request manager the service route analyzer the telemetry monitor and the network maintenance supervisor . The request manager is configured to receive requests for transportation service such as the request in or requests for delivery service such as the request in from the client device . For passenger transportation service the requests may include a user identifier or information by which a potential passenger may be identified a pickup location a destination location a number of passengers and other relevant information. For the transportation or delivery of items the requests may include item identifiers manifests or other descriptive information information by which the requester of the delivery service may be identified a pickup location a delivery off location and other relevant information. The request manager may be further configured to access the user profiles to retrieve authorization and or payment information associated with requests for transportation or delivery service based on the user identifier information in the requests.

For any given request the service route analyzer is configured to analyze a plurality of existing service routes to identify an existing service route and passenger capacity of a vehicle compatible with the request. For example the service route analyzer may analyze the existing service routes if any of the vehicles . Once a compatible vehicle is identified the service route analyzer may also estimate a delay to the existing service route of the vehicle with reference to the pickup destination and or delivery locations of a request. In other words if the vehicle is already operating according to an existing transportation and or delivery route for passengers or items the service route analyzer may estimate a time delay or impact upon that existing route. The service route analyzer may then determine whether that additional time delay is acceptable in view of the existing route. The determination may be made based on a comparison of the additional time delay with at least one service level parameter of the autonomous transportation network operated by the central management system for example. Further details regarding service level parameters are described below with reference to the process flow diagrams in .

When determining that the additional time delay is acceptable for a vehicle having an existing route that is compatible with the request the request manager may assign the vehicle to service the request and communicate the pickup destination and or delivery locations to the vehicle. On the other hand when determining that the additional time delay is unacceptable for the vehicle having the existing route the request manager may dispatch a new vehicle to join the autonomous transportation network to service the request. Thus it should be appreciated that the service level parameters of the autonomous transportation network which may be adjusted over time by a network operator using the network monitor client device for example may cause the request manager to rely more heavily on vehicles having existing routes e.g. ridesharing or dispatch additional vehicles to increase service levels depending upon factors related to operating and or service charge costs time of day holiday or event constraints weather or meteorological conditions road conditions traffic or other relevant factors.

The request manager is further configured to process payment transactions associated with requests for transportation and delivery services. The request manager may process the payment transactions based on billing information and or payment information stored in the user profiles . The transactions may be processed at any suitable time such as when a passenger is picked up or dropped off by a vehicle when an item is picked up or delivered or at any other time.

The telemetry monitor is configured to monitor and analyze the vehicle telemetry data received from the vehicles . In this context the telemetry monitor may be able to identify the potential for dangerous operating conditions of the vehicles or dangerous activities of passengers verify the occupancy and capacity of the vehicles verify the location of the vehicles provide a deterrent for crime visually identify passengers and recipients of items etc.

The network maintenance supervisor is configured to oversee the maintenance of the vehicles by reviewing and monitoring the vehicle telemetry data to identify fuel levels service mileage and operating hours and other diagnostic information. Additionally the network maintenance supervisor is configured to receive maintenance requests from the vehicles . The maintenance requests may include requests for various types of maintenance or service for the vehicles . In response to the requests the network maintenance supervisor may direct one or more of the vehicles to a location for maintenance and or refueling for example.

The computing environment also includes the transportation network interface engine . The transportation network interface engine may generate various network pages or other interface elements for display as a user interface on a client device such as the network monitor client device . In one embodiment the transportation network interface engine may generate the network pages as hypertext based pages including information about the operating status of the autonomous transportation network administered by the central management system . Further the transportation network interface engine may generate a user interface for the control and or administration of the autonomous transportation network through one or more of the central management system and the vehicles individually.

Turning to additional details on the operation of the computing environment and the vehicles illustrate a process of autonomous transportation performed in the networked environment in according to an example embodiment of the present disclosure. In certain aspects the flowcharts in may be viewed as depicting an example group of steps performed in the networked environment according to one or more embodiments. It should be appreciated that that the flowcharts in provide merely one example of a functional sequence or arrangement that may be employed to implement the operations of the networked environment as described herein. It is noted here that although the process is described in connection with the computing environment and the vehicles in other environments and or vehicles may perform the process .

Referring first to at reference numeral the process includes receiving a request for transportation or delivery service from the client device . For example as illustrated in the central management system may receive a request for transportation from a potential passenger. The central management system may also receive a request for delivery of one or more items at reference numeral . Depending upon the form of the request it may include a user identifier pickup location destination location delivery location number of passengers item identifiers manifests or other descriptive information. It is also noted that the central management system may receive a request to modify a previous request. Such a modified request may include modified pickup destination and or delivery locations or other descriptive information. Further the central management system may receive telemetry data from the vehicles throughout the process as illustrated in . The telemetry data may be relied upon by the central management system to make various decisions as described herein.

At reference numeral the process includes retrieving authorization and or payment information associated with the request. The authorization and or payment information may be retrieved by the central management system from the user profiles for example based on the user identifier information in the request. The user identifier information may include photographs username and or password combinations name and or address information etc. and the authorization information may include billing or payment information for example. Generally at reference numeral the central management system retrieves the information necessary from the transportation network data store to determine whether the request is valid corresponds to a recognized user and is associated with billing and or payment information. If no valid information associated with the request is retrieved at reference numeral the process may return an error message to the client device .

At reference numeral the process includes identifying a vehicle in the transportation network compatible with the request received at reference numeral . The process of identifying the vehicle is described in further detail below with reference to .

Once the vehicle is located at reference numeral the process includes communicating pickup destination and or delivery locations to the vehicle. For example as described above with reference to the central management system may communicate the pickup and drop off locations and to the vehicle based on the request for transportation . The vehicle may store the pickup and drop off locations and into its location queue memory and autonomously update its route to incorporate the pickup and drop off locations and .

At reference numeral the process includes calculating an estimated pickup time until the vehicle arrives at the pickup location. For example as described above with reference to the central management system may calculate an estimated time until the vehicle arrives at the pickup location or until the vehicle arrives at the pickup location . The pickup time may be estimated based on various factors such as the current distances between the vehicles and the pickup locations current or anticipated traffic conditions the types of the vehicles etc. At reference numeral the process may also include calculating an estimated time until the vehicle arrives at a destination or delivery location. Again the central management system may calculate the estimated destination or delivery times based on various factors such as the current distances between the vehicles and the destination or delivery locations current or anticipated traffic conditions the types of the vehicles etc.

At reference numeral the process includes communicating the attributes of fulfillment of the request for service to the client device . In other words after the central management system has assigned a vehicle to service the request received at reference numeral and estimated the associated pickup drop off and or delivery times the central management system may communicate that information to the client device . Thus at reference numeral the central management system may communicate a vehicle identifier of one of the vehicles or or any of the vehicles if assigned for example and the estimated pickup drop off and or delivery times to the client device . In that way the user of the client device may be informed that his request for transportation or delivery service has been received and fulfilled. Also the user may have information as to how long before he should expect to be picked up and dropped off. Alternatively the user may have information as to how long before an item will be picked up and delivered.

At reference numeral the process includes determining whether a user or client device verification has occurred for pickup. The verification may include verifying a user of the client device or the client device itself at the vehicle . In some implementations verification may occur in an unobtrusive manner. For example when the vehicle approaches the pickup location the vehicle and the client device may automatically exchange an authentication token using radio frequency communications e.g. Bluetooth near field communication etc. without the need for user interaction. In other implementations when the vehicle approaches the pickup location the central management system may send a verification code to the client device . The user of the client device may be asked to enter the verification code into an input device at the vehicle . Rather than a verification code the user may be asked to enter a pre defined password scan a fingerprint or pose for a facial recognition scan.

In other embodiments the central management system may forward a bar or quick response QR code to the client device for display. When vehicle approaches the user of the client device the user may present the bar or QR code displayed on the client device to a scanner of the vehicle . In either case the vehicle may communicate with the central management system to compare and verify the verification code password fingerprint or facial scan or scanned bar or QR code with expected verification information stored in the user profiles . If verified then the process proceeds to reference numeral . Otherwise the process waits at reference numeral for at least a reasonable period of time for a pickup verification to occur before the pickup is cancelled. It is also noted that if the process times out while waiting for verification of a pickup at reference numeral in the process continues on to reference numeral in .

At reference numeral the process includes directing the vehicle to open. For example after verification occurs at reference numeral the central management system may send an instruction to the vehicle to unlock and or open a passenger compartment door of the vehicle . Once opened the user of the client device as a passenger may enter the passenger cabin of the vehicle and wait to be transported to his destination. Alternatively if responding to a request for transportation of an item the central management system may send an instruction to the vehicle for example to direct the compartment access mechanism to unlock and or open a door of one of the cargo compartments . Once opened an item may be stored in one of the cargo compartments . In either case the vehicle may pick up a passenger or item for transportation or delivery.

Turning to at reference numeral the process may include confirming the occupancy of the vehicle. That is the central management system may review data from the cameras seat weight sensors integrated with the seats in the vehicle or telemetry data from other sensors in the vehicle to determine whether a passenger or item was picked up. If not confirmed the process may take remedial actions such as attempting to find the pickup location sending error messages to the client device etc. In some embodiments the process at reference numeral may be omitted.

At reference numeral the process includes processing a payment transaction for the transportation or delivery service. In that context the request manager may process the payment transaction based on billing information and or payment information stored in the user profiles . The transaction may be processed at another timing during the process rather than that illustrated such as when a passenger is picked up or dropped off when an item is picked up or delivered or at any other suitable time. In certain aspects of the embodiments the costs for the service may vary based on demand time of day holiday or event constraints weather and or other cost or environmental factors. The payment transactions may be cleared through credit card or other bank processing facilities.

At reference numeral the process includes monitoring the route of the vehicle assigned to the request received at reference numeral . Here the central management system may monitor the route of the vehicle or other vehicles for example to determine its progress. The central management system may also monitor whether the vehicle has met estimated pickup drop off and or delivery times. Further the telemetry monitor may monitor the operating status of the vehicle as it continues along its route.

At reference numeral the process includes determining whether the vehicle assigned to service the request received at reference numeral has reached its destination or delivery location. For example the central management system may determine whether the vehicle has arrived at the destination location . If so before continuing on the central management system may also determine whether the passenger has exited the vehicle at the location . The central management system may communicate a confirmation message or a receipt for example to the client device . As another example in the context of an item delivery the central management system may determine whether the vehicle has arrived at the delivery location . If so the central management system may await for the verification of the recipient of the item similar to the type of verification that occurred at reference numeral . If verified then the central management system may direct the compartment access mechanism to unlock and or open the compartment holding the item. As illustrated if the vehicle assigned to service the request has reached e.g. completed its destination and completed a drop off the process proceeds to reference numeral . Otherwise the process proceeds back to reference numeral for continued monitoring.

At reference numeral the process includes determining whether the vehicle assigned to the request has remaining drop off or delivery locations. If so then the central management system may direct the vehicle to continue on to its next destination at reference numeral if the vehicle does not automatically continue. Otherwise the central management system may direct the vehicle to standby or park at a certain location to wait for further route instructions at reference numeral .

Turning to the process of identifying a vehicle compatible with the request received at reference numeral is described in additional detail. The process flow illustrated in may be considered part of the overall process among .

At reference numeral the process includes analyzing a plurality of existing service routes for an existing service route compatible with the request received at reference numeral . Here the service route analyzer may analyze the routes of the vehicles to identify one which is best suited or most compatible with the request. The service route analyzer may be configured to identify an existing vehicle route that is most closely aligned with the pickup drop off and or delivery locations in the request for efficiency. Once a vehicle is identified the process proceeds to reference numeral which includes determining whether the passenger and or cargo capacity of the identified vehicle is compatible with the request. Here the central management system may determine whether the vehicle has sufficient passenger or cargo capacity to handle the number of passengers or items identified in the request for transportation. If so then the process proceeds to reference numeral .

At reference numeral the process includes estimating a delay to the existing service route of the identified vehicle with reference to the pickup destination and or delivery locations in the request. That is the vehicle may already be operating according to an existing transportation and or delivery route for passengers or items. In that context the service route analyzer may estimate a time delay or impact upon that existing route based on the additional request. The service route analyzer may then determine whether that additional time delay is acceptable for the passengers or items being serviced according to the existing route at reference numeral .

At reference numeral the process includes comparing the time delay with one or more service level parameters of the autonomous transportation network. The service route analyzer may compare the time delay with service level parameters to determine if the delay is consistent with the expectations of the other passengers in the vehicle or the delivery commitments for items to be delivered. The service level parameters may be defined as maximum or minimum service delay times for example or other similar service level metrics. In other aspects rather than or in addition to service delay times the service level parameters may be related to operating and or service charge costs time of day holiday or event constraints weather or meteorological conditions road conditions traffic or other relevant factors.

After the comparison against the service level parameters at reference numeral the process proceeds to reference numeral which includes determining whether the delay is acceptable according to the one or more service level parameters. If so then the process proceeds to reference numeral where the identified vehicle is finally assigned to service the request received at reference numeral . Otherwise if the delay is not acceptable according to the one or more service level parameters then the process proceeds to reference numeral which includes dispatching a new vehicle e.g. a vehicle which has no existing route to service the request.

Referring back to reference numeral if it is determined that there are no existing routes of vehicles compatible with the request received at reference numeral either because of a relatively large distance to the pickup drop off or delivery locations lack of available passenger or cargo capacity etc. the process proceeds to reference numeral which includes determining whether an optimization of existing routes of the vehicles in the transportation network is available. In that context the service route analyzer may determine whether the routes of one or more of the vehicles for example may be optimized for efficiency or increased service capacity. An optimization may include a rearrangement of the pickup drop off and or delivery locations among the vehicles based on the need to handle additional service requests or to achieve some other efficiency or service metric. If optimization is available the process proceeds to reference numeral which includes the service route analyzer optimizing the existing service routes among the vehicles in the network of transportation vehicles. Otherwise the process proceeds to reference numeral which includes dispatching a new vehicle. It should be appreciated that if no optimization is available and no additional vehicles are available to be dispatched a request received at reference numeral may be denied in certain cases.

The process may be relied upon to address the problems discussed above by offering on demand transportation service to and from nearly any location accessible by way of surface streets. The central management system may optimize routes of the vehicles among others in a network of transportation vehicles for efficiency while accounting for service level parameters that vary and be defined by operators over time. It is noted that an operator may control or direct the operation of the process through the network monitor client device and the transportation network interface engine throughout the process . Further vehicles may be added to and removed from the network of vehicles based on current service demands avoiding wasted resources when demand is low.

In various embodiments the memory stores data and software or executable code components executable by the processor . For example the memory may store executable code components associated with the central management system for execution by the processor . The memory may also store data such as that stored in the transportation network data store among other data.

It should be understood and appreciated that the memory may store other executable code components for execution by the processor . For example an operating system may be stored in the memory for execution by the processor . Where any component discussed herein is implemented in the form of software any one of a number of programming languages may be employed such as for example C C C Objective C JAVA JAVASCRIPT Perl PHP VISUAL BASIC PYTHON RUBY FLASH or other programming languages.

As discussed above in various embodiments the memory stores software for execution by the processor . In this respect the terms executable or for execution refer to software forms that can ultimately be run or executed by the processor whether in source object machine or other form. Examples of executable programs include for example a compiled program that can be translated into a machine code format and loaded into a random access portion of the memory and executed by the processor source code that can be expressed in an object code format and loaded into a random access portion of the memory and executed by the processor or source code that can be interpreted by another executable program to generate instructions in a random access portion of the memory and executed by the processor etc. An executable program may be stored in any portion or component of the memory including for example a random access memory RAM read only memory ROM magnetic or other hard disk drive solid state semiconductor or similar drive universal serial bus USB flash drive memory card optical disc e.g. compact disc CD or digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk magnetic tape or other memory component.

In various embodiments the memory may include both volatile and nonvolatile memory and data storage components. Volatile components are those that do not retain data values upon loss of power. Nonvolatile components are those that retain data upon a loss of power. Thus the memory may include for example a RAM ROM magnetic or other hard disk drive solid state semiconductor or similar drive USB flash drive memory card accessed via a memory card reader floppy disk accessed via an associated floppy disk drive optical disc accessed via an optical disc drive magnetic tape accessed via an appropriate tape drive and or other memory component or any combination thereof. In addition the RAM may include for example a static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM or magnetic random access memory MRAM and or other similar memory device. The ROM may include for example a programmable read only memory PROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or other similar memory device.

Also the processor may represent multiple processors and or multiple processor cores and the memory may represent multiple memories that operate in parallel respectively or in combination. Thus the local interface may be an appropriate network or bus that facilitates communication between any two of the multiple processors between any processor and any of the memories or between any two of the memories etc. The local interface may include additional systems designed to coordinate this communication including for example a load balancer that performs load balancing. The processor may be of electrical or of some other available construction.

As discussed above the central management system may be embodied in part by software or executable code components for execution by general purpose hardware. Alternatively the same may be embodied in dedicated hardware or a combination of software general specific and or dedicated purpose hardware. If embodied in such hardware each can be implemented as a circuit or state machine for example that employs any one of or a combination of a number of technologies. These technologies may include but are not limited to discrete logic circuits having logic gates for implementing various logic functions upon an application of one or more data signals application specific integrated circuits ASICs having appropriate logic gates field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or other components etc. Such technologies are generally well known by those skilled in the art and consequently are not described in detail herein.

The flowchart or process diagrams in are representative of certain processes functionality and operations of embodiments discussed herein. Each block may represent one or a combination of steps or executions in a process. Alternatively or additionally each block may represent a module segment or portion of code that includes program instructions to implement the specified logical function s . The program instructions may be embodied in the form of source code that includes human readable statements written in a programming language or machine code that includes numerical instructions recognizable by a suitable execution system such as the processor . The machine code may be converted from the source code etc. Further each block may represent or be connected with a circuit or a number of interconnected circuits to implement a certain logical function or process step.

Although the flowchart or process diagrams in illustrate a specific order it is understood that the order may differ from that which is depicted. For example an order of execution of two or more blocks may be scrambled relative to the order shown. Also two or more blocks shown in succession in may be executed concurrently or with partial concurrence. Further in some embodiments one or more of the blocks shown in may be skipped or omitted. In addition any number of counters state variables warning semaphores or messages might be added to the logical flow described herein for purposes of enhanced utility accounting performance measurement or providing troubleshooting aids etc. It is understood that all such variations are within the scope of the present disclosure.

Also any logic or application described herein including central management system that are embodied at least in part by software or executable code components may be embodied or stored in any tangible or non transitory computer readable medium or device for execution by an instruction execution system such as a general purpose processor. In this sense the logic may be embodied as for example software or executable code components that can be fetched from the computer readable medium and executed by the instruction execution system. Thus the instruction execution system may be directed by execution of the instructions to perform certain processes such as those illustrated in . In the context of the present disclosure a computer readable medium can be any tangible medium that can contain store or maintain any logic application software or executable code component described herein for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system.

The computer readable medium can include any physical media such as for example magnetic optical or semiconductor media. More specific examples of suitable computer readable media include but are not limited to magnetic tapes magnetic floppy diskettes magnetic hard drives memory cards solid state drives USB flash drives or optical discs. Also the computer readable medium may include a RAM including for example an SRAM DRAM or MRAM. In addition the computer readable medium may include a ROM a PROM an EPROM an EEPROM or other similar memory device.

Further any logic or application s described herein including the adaptive topic logic may be implemented and structured in a variety of ways. For example one or more applications described may be implemented as modules or components of a single application. Further one or more applications described herein may be executed in shared or separate computing devices or a combination thereof. For example a plurality of the applications described herein may execute in the same computing device or in multiple computing devices in the same computing environment . Additionally it is understood that terms such as application service system engine module and so on may be interchangeable and are not intended to be limiting.

Disjunctive language such as the phrase at least one of X Y or Z unless specifically stated otherwise is to be understood with the context as used in general to present that an item term etc. may be either X Y or Z or any combination thereof e.g. X Y and or Z . Thus such disjunctive language is not generally intended to and should not imply that certain embodiments require at least one of X at least one of Y or at least one of Z to be each present.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments of the present disclosure are merely possible examples of implementations set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the disclosure. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiment s without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the disclosure. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and protected by the following claims.

