---

title: Combination therapy for MDS
abstract: Disclosed are compositions and methods for the treatment of disorders such as myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) and acute myeloid leukemia (AML). The disclosed methods include administering to an individual in need of such treatment a composition that may include an IRAK1/4 inhibitor. In other aspects, the method may include administration of a BLC2 inhibitor.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09504706&OS=09504706&RS=09504706
owner: Children's Hospital Medical Center
number: 09504706
owner_city: Cincinnati
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150901
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Application Ser. No. 61 826 211 filed May 22 2013 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with government support under Grant Nos. RO1HL111103 and P30DK090971. The government has certain rights in this invention.

Myelodysplastic Syndromes MDS are malignant potentially fatal blood diseases that arise from a defective hematopoietic stem progenitor cell. MDS are heterogeneous diseases with few treatment options. One of the key challenges facing MDS treatment is the lack of effective medicines capable of providing a durable response.

MDS are hematologic malignancies defined by blood cytopenias due to ineffective hematopoiesis and a predisposition to acute myeloid leukemia AML Corey et al. 2007 Nimer 2008 . MDS is most prominent in individuals over 60 years of age and as a result of longer life expectancies the incidence of MDS has escalated in recent years Sekeres 2010b . MDS is fatal in majority of patients as a result of marrow failure immune dysfunction and or transformation to overt leukemia. Current treatment options for MDS include allogeneic HSC transplantation demethylating agents and immunomodulatory therapies Ebert 2010 . At present the only curative treatment for MDS is hemopoeitic stem cell HSC transplantation an option unavailable to many of the older patients. Instead these patients receive supportive care and transfusions to ameliorate their disease complications. Unfortunately even with this treatment the MDS clones persist in the marrow and the disease invariably advances Tehranchi et al. 2010 . For advanced disease or high risk MDS patients may also receive immunosuppressive therapy epigenetic modifying drugs and or chemotherapy Greenberg 2010 . Despite recent progress most MDS patients exhibit treatment related toxicities or relapse Sekeres 2010a . Overall the efficacy of these treatments is variable and generally life expectancies are only slightly improved as compared to supportive care.

Approximately 30 of MDS patients also develop aggressive Acute Myeloid leukemia AML due to acquisition of additional mutations in the defective hematopoietic stem progenitor cell HSPC Greenberg et al. 1997 . AML is a cancer of the myeloid line of blood cells characterized by the rapid growth of abnormal white blood cells that accumulate in the bone marrow and interfere with the production of normal blood cells. AML is the most common acute leukemia affecting adults and its incidence increases with age. Although AML is a relatively rare disease accounting for approximately 1.2 of cancer deaths in the United States its incidence is expected to increase as the population ages. Several risk factors and chromosomal abnormalities have been identified but the specific cause is not clear. As an acute leukemia AML progresses rapidly and is typically fatal within weeks or months if left untreated. The prognosis for AML that arises from MDS has a worse as compared to other types of AML.

Consequently there is an urgent need to develop targeted therapies capable of eliminating the MDS initiating clones and for treatments and method of treating MDS and AML. Identification of molecular targets is essential to improve outcome and eliminate the MDS causing clones and or AML. Herein therapeutic targets and agents for treating MDS and or AML are described.

Disclosed are compositions and methods for the treatment of disorders such as myelodysplastic syndrome MDS and acute myeloid leukemia AML . The disclosed methods include administering to an individual in need of such treatment an IRAK1 inhibitor. In other aspects the treatment may include administration of a BLC2 inhibitor.

As used herein and in the appended claims the singular forms a and and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a method includes a plurality of such methods and reference to a dose includes reference to one or more doses and equivalents thereof known to those skilled in the art and so forth.

The term about or approximately means within an acceptable error range for the particular value as determined by one of ordinary skill in the art which will depend in part on how the value is measured or determined e.g. the limitations of the measurement system. For example about can mean within 1 or more than 1 standard deviations per the practice in the art. Alternatively about can mean a range of up to 20 or up to 10 or up to 5 or up to 1 of a given value. Alternatively particularly with respect to biological systems or processes the term can mean within an order of magnitude preferably within 5 fold and more preferably within 2 fold of a value. Where particular values are described in the application and claims unless otherwise stated the term about meaning within an acceptable error range for the particular value should be assumed.

 Dosage unit form as used herein refers to physically discrete units suited as unitary dosages for the subject to be treated each unit containing a predetermined quantity of active compound calculated to produce the desired therapeutic effect in association with the required pharmaceutical carrier. The specification for the dosage unit forms of the preferred embodiments are dictated by and directly dependent on the unique characteristics of the active compound and the particular therapeutic effect to be achieved and the limitations inherent in the art of compounding such an active compound for the treatment of individuals.

The terms individual host subject and patient are used interchangeably to refer to an animal that is the object of treatment observation and or experiment. Animal includes vertebrates and invertebrates such as fish shellfish reptiles birds and in particular mammals. Mammal includes without limitation mice rats rabbits guinea pigs dogs cats sheep goats cows horses primates such as monkeys chimpanzees and apes and in particular humans.

As used herein the language pharmaceutically acceptable carrier is intended to include any and all solvents dispersion media coatings antibacterial and antifungal agents isotonic and absorption delaying agents and the like compatible with pharmaceutical administration. Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers include a wide range of known diluents i.e. solvents fillers extending agents binders suspending agents disintegrates surfactants lubricants excipients wetting agents and the like commonly used in this field. These carriers may be used singly or in combination according to the form of the pharmaceutical preparation and may further encompass pharmaceutically acceptable excipients as defined herein.

As used herein pharmaceutically acceptable excipient means any other component added to a pharmaceutical formulation other than the active ingredient and which is capable of bulking up formulations that contain potent active ingredients thus often referred to as bulking agents fillers or diluents to allow convenient and accurate dispensation of a drug substance when producing a dosage form. Excipients may be added to facilitate manufacture enhance stability control release enhance product characteristics enhance bioavailability drug absorption or solubility or other pharmacokinetic considerations enhance patient acceptability etc. Pharmaceutical excipients include for example carriers fillers binders disintegrants lubricants glidants colors preservatives suspending agents dispersing agents film formers buffer agents pH adjusters preservatives etc. The selection of appropriate excipients also depends upon the route of administration and the dosage form as well as the active ingredient and other factors and will be readily understood by one of ordinary skill in the art.

As used herein the term therapeutically effective amount means the total amount of each active component of the pharmaceutical composition or method that is sufficient to show a meaningful patient benefit e.g. healing of chronic conditions or in an increase in rate of healing of such conditions or in a reduction in aberrant conditions. This includes both therapeutic and prophylactic treatments. Accordingly the compounds can be used at very early stages of a disease or before early onset or after significant progression. When applied to an individual active ingredient administered alone the term refers to that ingredient alone. When applied to a combination the term refers to combined amounts of the active ingredients that result in the therapeutic effect whether administered in combination serially or simultaneously.

Targeted therapies have been effective in other myeloid diseases O Dwyer et al. 2003 and may also improve the clinical outcome in MDS by suppressing the malignant clone. Recent sequencing and gene profiling efforts have revealed insight into the underlying molecular and cellular defects in MDS initiating cells. Despite this progress one of the key challenges still facing MDS treatment is that molecular targeted therapies do not exist and AML like therapies have been disappointing.

MDS are genetically defined by somatic mutations and chromosomal abnormalities not only affecting epigenetic plasticity ribosome function spliceosome machinery or activation of oncogenes but also immune dysfunction. Human miR 146a resides on chromosome 5q33.3 and its deletion occurs in 80 of all del 5q MDS and AML Gondek et al. 2008 . Low expression of miR 146a also occurs in 25 of all MDS and in 10 of AML patients Sokol et al. 2011 Starczynowski et al. 2010 Starczynowski et al. 2011b and is part of an MDS diagnostic miRNA signature Sokol et al. 2011 . Knockout of miR 146a results in an early onset of myeloid expansion in the marrow and progression to more aggressive diseases such as lymphomas marrow failure and myeloid leukemia Boldin et al. 2011 Zhao et al. 2011 .

TRAF6 and IRAK1 are two immune related targets of miR 146a Starczynowski et al. 2010 Starczynowski et al. 2011a Taganov et al. 2006 and as expected miR 146a knockout mice have a dramatic increase in TRAF6 and IRAK1 protein within the hematopoietic compartment Boldin et al. 2011 Zhao et al. 2011 . TRAF6 a lysine K 63 E3 ubiquitin ligase and IRAK1 a serine threonine kinase are interacting proteins and mediators downstream of Toll like TLR and Interleukin 1 IL1R receptors. Activation of TLR or IL1R recruits a series of adaptor proteins resulting in phosphorylation of IRAK1 on Thr209. Phosphorylated IRAK1 binds to and activates TRAF6 resulting in NF B activation. Increasing clinical and biological data indicate that innate immune signaling is an important determinant of MDS pathophysiology Bar et al. 2008 Chen et al. 2004 Hofmann et al. 2002 Vasikova et al. 2010 .

Here Applicant has identified that Interleukin Receptor Associated Kinase 1 IRAK1 is overexpressed and activated in MDS. Genetic or pharmacological inhibition of IRAK1 induces apoptosis and cell cycle arrest of MDS cells and prolongs survival outcome in a human MDS xenograft model. In an attempt to understand the mechanism of IRAK1 4 Inh function and potential resistance Applicant identified a collaborative cytotoxic effect of combined IRAK1 and BCL2 inhibition on MDS cells. Applicant s findings suggest that targeting IRAK1 may be an effective therapeutic strategy in MDS.

In particular Applicant identified that IRAK1 an immune modulating kinase is overexpressed and hyperactivated in MDS. MDS clones treated with a small molecule IRAK1 inhibitor IRAK1 4 Inh exhibited impaired expansion and increased apoptosis which coincided with TRAF6 NF B inhibition. Suppression of IRAK1 either by RNAi or with IRAK1 4 Inh is detrimental to MDS cells while sparing normal CD34 cells. Based on an integrative gene expression analysis we combined IRAK1 and BCL2 inhibitors and found that co treatment more effectively eliminated MDS clones. In summary these findings implicate IRAK1 as a drugable target in MDS.

Disclosed herein are methods for treating myelodysplastic syndrome MDS in an individual. The method may comprise the step of administering to the individual a composition that may comprise an IRAK1 inhibitor.

In one aspect the IRAK1 4 inhibitor may be selected from N acyl 2 aminobenzimidazoles imidazo 1 2 a pyridino pyrimidine imidazo 1 2 a pyridino pyridine benzimidazolo pyridine N 2 morpholinylethyl 2 3 nitrobenzoylamido benzimidazole IRAK1 4 or combinations thereof.

In one aspect the method may comprise the step of administering to the individual an apoptotic modulator.

In one aspect the method may comprise the step of administering to said individual an apoptotic modulator. The apoptotic modulator comprises may comprise a BCL2 inhibitor.

In one aspect the method may comprise the step of administering to the individual an apoptotic modulator wherein the apoptotic modulator may comprise a BCL2 inhibitor selected from ABT 263 Navitoclax ABT 737 ABT 199 GDC 0199 GX15 070 Obatoclax and combinations thereof all available from Abbott Laboratories.

In one aspect the myelodysplastic syndrome may be selected from Fanconi Anemia refractory anemia refractory neutropenia refractory thrombocytopenia refractory anemia with ring sideroblasts RARS refractory cytopenia with multilineage dysplasia RCMD refractory anemia with excess blasts I and II RAEB 5q syndrome myelodysplasia unclassifiable refractory cytopenia of childhood or a combination thereof.

In one aspect the administering step may be selected from orally rectally nasally topically parenterally subcutaneously intramuscularly intravenously transdermally or a combination thereof.

In one aspect the administration may decreases the incidence of marrow failure immune dysfunction transformation to overt leukemia or combinations thereof in said individual as compared to an individual not receiving said composition.

In one aspect the method may decrease a marker of viability of MDS cells. In one aspect the method may decrease a marker of viability of MDS and or AML cells. The marker may be selected from survival over time proliferation growth migration formation of colonies chromatic assembly DNA binding RNA metabolism cell migration cell adhesion inflammation or a combination thereof.

In one aspect a method of treating myelodysplastic syndrome or acute myeloid leukemia in an individual is disclosed. In this aspect the method may comprise the step of administering to the individual

b an agent selected from an apoptotic agent an immune modulating agent an epigenetic modifying agent and combinations thereof.

In one aspect the IRAK1 4 inhibitor may be selected from N acyl 2 aminobenzimidazoles imidazo 1 2 a pyridino pyrimidine imidazo 1 2 a pyridino pyridine benzimidazolo pyridine N 2 morpholinylethyl 2 3 nitrobenzoylamido benzimidazole IRAK1 4 or combinations thereof. In one aspect the IRAK1 inhibitor may comprise an RNAi sufficient to inhibit IRAK1 expression.

In one aspect the administration may comprise administration of an apoptotic modulator. The apoptotic modulator may comprise a BLC2 inhibitor. In certain aspects the apoptotic modulator may be selected from ABT 263 Navitoclax ABT 737 ABT 199 GDC 0199 GX15 070 Obatoclax and combinations thereof.

In one aspect the administration step may comprise administration of an immune modulator. The immune modulator may comprise for example Lenalidomide Revlamid Celgene Corporation .

In one aspect the administration step may comprise administration of an epigenetic modulator. The epigenetic modulator may comprise for example a hypomethylating agent such as azacitidine decitabine or a combination thereof.

The myelodysplastic syndrome may be selected from Fanconi Anemia refractory anemia refractory neutropenia refractory thrombocytopenia refractory anemia with ring sideroblasts RARS refractory cytopenia with multilineage dysplasia RCMD refractory anemia with excess blasts I and II RAEB 5q syndrome myelodysplasia unclassifiable refractory cytopenia of childhood or a combination thereof.

The disclosed methods may decreases the incidence of marrow failure immune dysfunction transformation to overt leukemia or combinations thereof in an individual as compared to an individual not receiving the disclosed composition.

In one aspect a method of identifying a compound useful for treatment of a myelodysplastic syndrome is disclosed. In this aspect the method may comprise the steps of

wherein a decrease in an incidence of the marker of MDS indicates that said compound of interest is a potential therapeutic agent.

In another aspect a method of identifying a compound useful for treatment of a myelodysplastic syndrome is disclosed. In this aspect the method may comprise the steps of

wherein a decrease in an incidence of the marker of MDS indicates that the compound of interest is a potential therapeutic agent.

In certain aspects the marker may comprise for example anemia thrombocytopenia hypocellular marrow extramedullary hematopoiesis or a combination thereof. In other aspects the marker may comprise viability or overall health of the host animal

The host animal may be for example a mammal preferably a rodent more preferably a mouse. In certain aspects the host animal may be an NSG or NSGS immunodeficient mouse.

In one aspect a composition is disclosed. The composition may comprise an IRAK1 4 inhibitor and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient or a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. In other aspects the composition may further comprise an agent selected from an apoptotic agent an immune modulating agent an epigenetic modifying agent and combinations thereof.

Compounds or mixtures of compounds described herein can be formulated into pharmaceutical composition comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and other excipients as apparent to the skilled worker. Such composition can additionally contain effective amounts of other compounds especially for the treatment of conditions diseases and or disorders described herein.

Some embodiments comprise the administration of a pharmaceutically effective quantity of active agent or its pharmaceutically acceptable salts or esters active agent analogs or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts or esters or a combination thereof.

The compositions and preparations may contain at least 0.1 of active agent. The percentage of the compositions and preparations can of course be varied and can contain between about 2 and 60 of the weight of the amount administered. The percentage of the compositions and preparations may contain between about 2 5 10 or 15 and 30 35 40 45 50 55 or 60 of the weight of the amount administered. The amount of active compounds in such pharmaceutically useful compositions and preparations is such that a suitable dosage will be obtained.

The disclosed active agents may form salts. Reference to a compound of the active agent herein is understood to include reference to salts thereof unless otherwise indicated. The term salt s as employed herein denotes acidic and or basic salts formed with inorganic and or organic acids and bases. In addition when an active agent contains both a basic moiety such as but not limited to an amine or a pyridine or imidazole ring and an acidic moiety such as but not limited to a carboxylic acid zwitterions inner salts can be formed and are included within the term salt s as used herein. Pharmaceutically acceptable e.g. non toxic physiologically acceptable salts are preferred although other salts are also useful e.g. in isolation or purification steps which can be employed during preparation. Salts of the compounds of the active agent can be formed for example by reacting a compound of the active agent with an amount of acid or base such as an equivalent amount in a medium such as one in which the salt precipitates or in an aqueous medium followed by lyophilization.

Pharmaceutically acceptable salts include but are not limited to pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts pharmaceutically acceptable base addition salts pharmaceutically acceptable metal salts ammonium and alkylated ammonium salts. Acid addition salts include salts of inorganic acids as well as organic acids. Representative examples of suitable inorganic acids include hydrochloric hydrobromic hydroiodic phosphoric sulfuric nitric acids and the like. Representative examples of suitable organic acids include formic acetic trichloroacetic trifluoroacetic propionic benzoic cinnamic citric fumaric glycolic lactic maleic malic malonic mandelic oxalic picric pyruvic salicylic succinic methanesulfonic ethanesulfonic tartaric ascorbic pamoic bismethylene salicylic ethanedisulfonic gluconic citraconic aspartic stearic palmitic EDTA glycolic p aminobenzoic glutamic benzenesulfonic p toluenesulfonic acids sulphates nitrates phosphates perchlorates borates acetates benzoates hydroxynaphthoates glycerophosphates ketoglutarates and the like. Examples of metal salts include lithium sodium potassium magnesium salts and the like. Examples of ammonium and alkylated ammonium salts include ammonium methylammonium dimethylammonium trimethylammonium ethylammonium hydroxyethylammonium diethylammonium butylammonium tetramethylammonium salts and the like. Examples of organic bases include lysine arginine guanidine diethanolamine choline and the like.

The compounds can be formulated in various forms including solid and liquid forms such as tablets gel syrup powder aerosol etc.

The compositions may contain physiologically acceptable diluents fillers lubricants excipients solvents binders stabilizers and the like. Diluents that can be used in the compositions include but are not limited to dicalcium phosphate calcium sulphate lactose cellulose kaolin mannitol sodium chloride dry starch powdered sugar and for prolonged release tablet hydroxy propyl methyl cellulose HPMC . The binders that can be used in the compositions include but are not limited to starch gelatin and fillers such as sucrose glucose dextrose and lactose.

Natural and synthetic gums that can be used in the compositions include but are not limited to sodium alginate ghatti gum carboxymethyl cellulose methyl cellulose polyvinyl pyrrolidone and veegum. Excipients that can be used in the compositions include but are not limited to microcrystalline cellulose calcium sulfate dicalcium phosphate starch magnesium stearate lactose and sucrose. Stabilizers that can be used include but are not limited to polysaccharides such as acacia agar alginic acid guar gum and tragacanth amphotsics such as gelatin and synthetic and semi synthetic polymers such as carbomer resins cellulose ethers and carboxymethyl chitin.

Solvents that can be used include but are not limited to Ringers solution water distilled water dimethyl sulfoxide to 50 in water propylene glycol neat or in water phosphate buffered saline balanced salt solution glycol and other conventional fluids.

The dosages and dosage regimen in which the compounds are administered will vary according to the dosage form mode of administration the condition being treated and particulars of the patient being treated. Accordingly optimal therapeutic concentrations will be best determined at the time and place through routine experimentation.

The compounds may also be used enterally. Orally the compounds may be administered at the rate of 100 g to 100 mg per day per kg of body weight. Orally the compounds may be suitably administered at the rate of about 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 450 or 500 g to about 1 5 10 25 50 75 100 mg per day per kg of body weight. The required dose can be administered in one or more portions. For oral administration suitable forms are for example tablets gel aerosols pills dragees syrups suspensions emulsions solutions powders and granules one method of administration includes using a suitable form containing from 1 mg to about 500 mg of active substance. In one aspect administration may comprise using a suitable form containing from about 1 2 5 10 25 or 50 mg to about 100 200 300 400 500 mg of active substance.

The compounds may also be administered parenterally in the form of solutions or suspensions for intravenous or intramuscular perfusions or injections. In that case the compounds may be administered at the rate of about 10 g to 10 mg per day per kg of body weight one method of administration may consist of using solutions or suspensions containing approximately from 0.01 mg to 1 mg of active substance per ml. The compounds may be administered at the rate of about 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 or 100 g to 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 or 10 mg per day per kg of body weight in one aspect solutions or suspensions containing approximately from 0.01 0.02 0.03 0.04 or 0.5 mg to 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 or 1 mg of active substance per ml may be used.

The compounds can be used in a substantially similar manner to other known anti cancer agents for treating both chemopreventively and therapeutically various cancers. For the anti cancer dose to be administered whether a single dose multiple dose or a daily dose will of course vary with the particular compound employed because of the varying potency of the compound the chosen route of administration the size of the recipient the type of cancer and the nature of the patient s condition. The dosage to be administered is not subject to definite bounds but it will usually be an effective amount or the equivalent on a molar basis of the pharmacologically active free form produced from a dosage formulation upon the metabolic release of the active drug to achieve its desired pharmacological and physiological effects. For example an oncologist skilled in the art of cancer treatment will be able to ascertain without undue experimentation appropriate protocols for the effective administration of the compounds related to cancer therapy such as by referring to the earlier published studies on compounds found to have anti cancer properties.

The active compounds and or pharmaceutical compositions of the embodiments disclosed herein can be administered according to various routes such as by injection for example local or systemic injection s . Intratumoral injections may be used for treating existing cancers. Other administration routes can be used as well such as intramuscular intravenous intradermic subcutaneous etc. Furthermore repeated injections can be performed if needed although it is believed that limited injections will be needed in view of the efficacy of the compounds.

For ex vivo administration the active agent can be administered by any standard method that would maintain viability of the cells such as by adding it to culture medium appropriate for the target cells and adding this medium directly to the cells. As is known in the art any medium used in this method can be aqueous and non toxic so as not to render the cells non viable. In addition it can contain standard nutrients for maintaining viability of cells if desired. For in vivo administration the complex can be added to for example to a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier e.g. saline and buffered saline and administered by any of several means known in the art. Examples of administration include parenteral administration e.g. by intravenous injection including regional perfusion through a blood vessel supplying the tissues s or organ s having the target cell s or by inhalation of an aerosol subcutaneous or intramuscular injection topical administration such as to skin wounds and lesions direct transfection into e.g. bone marrow cells prepared for transplantation and subsequent transplantation into the subject and direct transfection into an organ that is subsequently transplanted into the subject. Further administration methods include oral administration particularly when the active agent is encapsulated or rectal administration particularly when the active agent is in suppository form.

It is contemplated that such target cells can be located within a subject or human patient in which case a safe and effective amount of the active agent in pharmacologically acceptable form would be administered to the patient. Generally speaking it is contemplated that useful pharmaceutical compositions may include the selected active compound derivative in a convenient amount e.g. from about 0.001 to about 10 w w that is diluted in a pharmacologically or physiologically acceptable carrier such as for example phosphate buffered saline. The route of administration and ultimate amount of material that is administered to the subject under such circumstances will depend upon the intended application and will be apparent to those of skill in the art in light of the examples which follow.

Any composition chosen should be of low or non toxicity to the cell. Toxicity for any given compound can vary with the concentration of compound used. It is also beneficial if the compound chosen is metabolized or eliminated by the body and if this metabolism or elimination is done in a manner that will not be harmfully toxic.

The compound may be administered such that a therapeutically effective concentration of the compound is in contact with the affected cells of the body. The dose administered to a subject particularly a human may be sufficient to effect a therapeutic response in the subject over a reasonable period of time. The dose may be determined by the strength of the particular compound employed and the condition of the subject as well as the body weight of the subject to be treated. The existence nature and extent of any adverse side effects that might accompany the administration of a particular compound also will determine the size of the dose and the particular route of administration employed with a particular patient. In general the compounds may be therapeutically effective at low doses. The generally useful dose range may be from about 0.001 mM or less to about 100 mM or more. The effective dose range may be from about 0.01 0.05 0.1 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 or 0.9 mM to about 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 or 10 mM. Accordingly the compounds may be generally administered in low doses.

The pharmaceutical composition may further comprise a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The resulting preparation may incorporate if necessary one or more solubilizing agent buffers preservatives colorants perfumes flavorings and the like that are widely used in the field of pharmaceutical preparation.

The proportion of the active ingredient to be contained in the disclosed compositions may be determined by one of ordinary skill in the art using art recognized methods.

The disclosed compounds may be formulated into a dosage form selected from the group consisting of tablets capsules granules pills injections solutions emulsions suspensions and syrups. The form and administration route for the pharmaceutical composition are not limited and can be suitably selected. For example tablets capsules granules pills syrups solutions emulsions and suspensions may be administered orally. Additionally injections e.g. subcutaneous intravenous intramuscular and intraperitoneal may be administered intravenously either singly or in combination with a conventional replenisher containing glucose amino acid and or the like or may be singly administered intramuscularly intracutaneously subcutaneously and or intraperitoneally.

The disclosed compositions may be prepared according to a method known in the pharmaceutical field of this kind using a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. For example oral forms such as tablets capsules granules pills and the like are prepared according to known methods using excipients such as saccharose lactose glucose starch mannitol and the like binders such as syrup gum arabic sorbitol tragacanth methylcellulose polyvinylpyrrolidone and the like disintegrates such as starch carboxymethylcellulose or the calcium salt thereof microcrystalline cellulose polyethylene glycol and the like lubricants such as talc magnesium stearate calcium stearate silica and the like and wetting agents such as sodium laurate glycerol and the like.

Injections solutions emulsions suspensions syrups and the like may be prepared according to a known method suitably using solvents for dissolving the active ingredient such as ethyl alcohol isopropyl alcohol propylene glycol 1 3 butylene glycol polyethylene glycol sesame oil and the like surfactants such as sorbitan fatty acid ester polyoxyethylenesorbitan fatty acid ester polyoxyethylene fatty acid ester polyoxyethylene of hydrogenated castor oil lecithin and the like suspending agents such as cellulose derivatives including carboxymethylcellulose sodium methylcellulose and the like natural gums including tragacanth gum arabic and the like and preservatives such as parahydroxybenzoic acid esters benzalkonium chloride sorbic acid salts and the like.

The compounds can be administered orally topically parenterally by inhalation or spray vaginally rectally or sublingually in dosage unit formulations. The term administration by injection includes but is not limited to intravenous intraarticular intramuscular subcutaneous and parenteral injections as well as use of infusion techniques. Dermal administration can include topical application or transdermal administration. One or more compounds can be present in association with one or more non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable carriers and if desired other active ingredients.

Compositions intended for oral use can be prepared according to any suitable method known to the art for the manufacture of pharmaceutical compositions. Such compositions can contain one or more agents selected from the group consisting of diluents sweetening agents flavoring agents coloring agents and preserving agents in order to provide palatable preparations. Tablets contain the active ingredient in admixture with non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable excipients that are suitable for the manufacture of tablets. These excipients can be for example inert diluents such as calcium carbonate sodium carbonate lactose calcium phosphate or sodium phosphate granulating and disintegrating agents for example corn starch or alginic acid and binding agents for example magnesium stearate stearic acid or talc. The tablets can be uncoated or they can be coated by known techniques to delay disintegration and adsorption in the gastrointestinal tract and thereby provide a sustained action over a longer period. For example a time delay material such as glyceryl monostearate or glyceryl distearate can be employed. These compounds can also be prepared in solid rapidly released form.

Formulations for oral use can also be presented as hard gelatin capsules wherein the active ingredient is mixed with an inert solid diluent for example calcium carbonate calcium phosphate or kaolin or as soft gelatin capsules wherein the active ingredient is mixed with water or an oil medium for example peanut oil liquid paraffin or olive oil.

Aqueous suspensions containing the active materials in admixture with excipients suitable for the manufacture of aqueous suspensions can also be used. Such excipients are suspending agents for example sodium carboxymethylcellulose methylcellulose hydroxypropyl methylcellulose sodium alginate polyvinylpyrrolidone gum tragacanth and gum acacia dispersing or wetting agents can be a naturally occurring phosphatide for example lecithin or condensation products of an alkylene oxide with fatty acids for example polyoxyethylene stearate or condensation products of ethylene oxide with long chain aliphatic alcohols for example heptadecaethylene oxycetanol or condensation products of ethylene oxide with partial esters derived from fatty acids and hexitol such as polyoxyethylene sorbitol monooleate or condensation products of ethylene oxide with partial esters derived from fatty acids and hexitol anhydrides for example polyethylene sorbitan monooleate. The aqueous suspensions can also contain one or more preservatives for example ethyl or n propyl p hydroxybenzoate one or more coloring agents one or more flavoring agents and one or more sweetening agents such as sucrose or saccharin.

Dispersible powders and granules suitable for preparation of an aqueous suspension by the addition of water provide the active ingredient in admixture with a dispersing or wetting agent suspending agent and one or more preservatives. Suitable dispersing or wetting agents and suspending agents are exemplified by those already mentioned above. Additional excipients for example sweetening flavoring and coloring agents can also be present.

The compounds can also be in the form of non aqueous liquid formulations e.g. oily suspensions which can be formulated by suspending the active ingredients in a vegetable oil for example arachis oil olive oil sesame oil or peanut oil or in a mineral oil such as liquid paraffin. The oily suspensions can contain a thickening agent for example beeswax hard paraffin or cetyl alcohol. Sweetening agents such as those set forth above and flavoring agents can be added to provide palatable oral preparations. These compositions can be preserved by the addition of an anti oxidant such as ascorbic acid.

Compounds may also be administrated transdermally using methods known to those skilled in the art. For example a solution or suspension of an active agent in a suitable volatile solvent optionally containing penetration enhancing agents can be combined with additional additives known to those skilled in the art such as matrix materials and bacteriocides. After sterilization the resulting mixture can be formulated following known procedures into dosage forms. In addition on treatment with emulsifying agents and water a solution or suspension of an active agent can be formulated into a lotion or salve.

Suitable solvents for processing transdermal delivery systems are known to those skilled in the art and include lower alcohols such as ethanol or isopropyl alcohol lower ketones such as acetone lower carboxylic acid esters such as ethyl acetate polar ethers such as tetrahydrofuran lower hydrocarbons such as hexane cyclohexane or benzene or halogenated hydrocarbons such as dichloromethane chloroform trichlorotrifluoroethane or trichlorofluoroethane. Suitable solvents can also include mixtures of one or more materials selected from lower alcohols lower ketones lower carboxylic acid esters polar ethers lower hydrocarbons halogenated hydrocarbons.

Suitable penetration enhancing materials for transdermal delivery system are known to those skilled in the art and include for example monohydroxy or polyhydroxy alcohols such as ethanol propylene glycol or benzyl alcohol saturated or unsaturated C8 C18 fatty alcohols such as lauryl alcohol or cetyl alcohol saturated or unsaturated C8 C18 fatty acids such as stearic acid saturated or unsaturated fatty esters with up to 24 carbons such as methyl ethyl propyl isopropyl n butyl sec butyl isobutyl tertbutyl or monoglycerin esters of acetic acid capronic acid lauric acid myristinic acid stearic acid or palmitic acid or diesters of saturated or unsaturated dicarboxylic acids with a total of up to about 24 carbons such as diisopropyl adipate diisobutyl adipate diisopropyl sebacate diisopropyl maleate or diisopropyl fumarate. Additional penetration enhancing materials include phosphatidyl derivatives such as lecithin or cephalin terpenes amides ketones ureas and their derivatives and ethers such as dimethyl isosorbid and diethyleneglycol monoethyl ether. Suitable penetration enhancing formulations can also include mixtures of one or more materials selected from monohydroxy or polyhydroxy alcohols saturated or unsaturated C8 C18 fatty alcohols saturated or unsaturated C8 C18 fatty acids saturated or unsaturated fatty esters with up to 24 carbons diesters of saturated or unsaturated discarboxylic acids with a total of up to 24 carbons phosphatidyl derivatives terpenes amides ketones ureas and their derivatives and ethers.

Suitable binding materials for transdermal delivery systems are known to those skilled in the art and include polyacrylates silicones polyurethanes block polymers styrenebutadiene copolymers and natural and synthetic rubbers. Cellulose ethers derivatized polyethylenes and silicates can also be used as matrix components. Additional additives such as viscous resins or oils can be added to increase the viscosity of the matrix.

Pharmaceutical compositions may also be in the form of oil in water emulsions. The oil phase can be a vegetable oil for example olive oil or arachis oil or a mineral oil for example liquid paraffin or mixtures of these. Suitable emulsifying agents can be naturally occurring gums for example gum acacia or gum tragacanth naturally occurring phosphatides for example soy bean lecithin and esters or partial esters derived from fatty acids and hexitol anhydrides for example sorbitan monooleate and condensation products of the said partial esters with ethylene oxide for example polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate. The emulsions can also contain sweetening and flavoring agents. Syrups and elixirs can be formulated with sweetening agents for example glycerol propylene glycol sorbitol or sucrose. Such formulations can also contain a demulcent a preservative and flavoring and coloring agents.

The compounds can also be administered in the form of suppositories for rectal or vaginal administration of the drug. These compositions can be prepared by mixing the drug with a suitable nonirritating excipient which is solid at ordinary temperatures but liquid at the rectal temperature or vaginal temperature and will therefore melt in the rectum or vagina to release the drug. Such materials include cocoa butter and polyethylene glycols.

It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the particular method of administration will depend on a variety of factors all of which are considered routinely when administering therapeutics. It will also be understood however that the specific dose level for any given patient will depend upon a variety of factors including the activity of the specific compound employed the age of the patient the body weight of the patient the general health of the patient the gender of the patient the diet of the patient time of administration route of administration rate of excretion drug combinations and the severity of the condition undergoing therapy. It will be further appreciated by one skilled in the art that the optimal course of treatment i.e. the mode of treatment and the daily number of doses of an active agent or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof given for a defined number of days can be ascertained by those skilled in the art using conventional treatment tests.

Acute myeloid leukemic cell lines HL60 THP1 and TF 1 were purchased from the American Type Culture Collection. MOLM13 were purchased from AddexBio. The myelodysplastic cell line MDS L was provided by Dr. Kaoru Tohyama Kawasaki Medical School Okayama Japan Matsuoka et al. 2010 . Cell lines were cultured in RPMI 1640 medium with 10 FBS and 1 penicillin streptomycin. Additionally both the MDSL and TF 1 cell lines were cultured in the presence of 10 ng mL human recombinant IL 3 Stemcell Technologies . Human CD34 umbilical cord blood UCB and adult marrow derived mononuclear cells were obtained from the Translational Research Development Support Laboratory of Cincinnati Children s Hospital under an approved Institutional Review Board protocol. Human CD34 UCB cells and primary MDS AML cells were maintained in StemSpan Serum Free Expansion Media Stemcell Technologies supplemented with 10 ng mL of recombinant human stem cell factor SCF Flt3 ligand Flt3L thrombopoietin TPO IL 3 and IL 6 Stemcell Technologies .

The IRAK1 inhibitor IRAK1 4 inhibitor or IRAK Inh Amgen Inc. was purchased from Sigma Aldrich 15409 . Lipopolysaccharide was purchased from InvivoGen TLRL PEKLPS . ABT 263 Navitoclax was purchased from Chemietek CT A263 Tse et al. 2008 . Recombinant human IL1 was purchased from PeproTech 200 01B . LeGO iG2 lentiviral vectors for expression of IRAK1 and TRAF6 cDNAs are described previously Fang et al. 2012 .

Annexin V analysis was carried out as previously described Fang et al. 2012 . Cells were stained after either drug treatment or lentiviral transduction with Annexin V eBioscience and propidium iodide Sigma Aldrich or 7AAD eBioscience according to the manufacturer s instructions. Analysis was performed using BD FACSCalibur or FACSCanto flow cytometer with either CellQuest or Diva software. For in vitro growth assays cell expansion in liquid culture was determined based on trypan blue exclusion using an automated cell counter BioRad TC10 . For experiments beyond 48 hrs cells were replenished with fresh media and drug every second day. For primary patient marrow cells cell were treated with a single inhibitor dose and counted 24 and 48 hours later. NF B DNA binding assay Nuclear lysates were isolated from treated cells as previously described Starczynowski et al. 2011 . NF B p65 DNA binding was measured using an ELISA based assay according to the manufacturer s recommendations KHO0371 Invitrogen 

Total protein lysates were obtained from cells by lysing the samples in cold RIPA buffer 50 mM Tris HCl 150 mM NaCl mM EDTA 1 Triton X 100 and 0.1 SDS in the presence of PMSF sodium orthovanadate protease and phosphatase inhibitors. After being re suspended in RIPA cells were briefly sonicated. Protein concentration was evaluated by a BCA assay Pierce . For immunoprecipitation TRAF6 or IRAK1 antibodies 2 g were added to cell lysates 10 mg for 3 h at 4 C. and captured by the addition of Protein A G Plus beads sc 2003 Santa Cruz as described before Starczynowski et al. 2011 . The immune complexes were washed with lysis buffer followed by the addition of SDS sample buffer. The bound proteins were separated by SDS polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis transferred to nitrocellulose membranes and analyzed by immunoblotting. Western blot analysis was performed with the following antibodies TRAF6 sc 7221 Santa Cruz IRAK1 sc 7883 Santa Cruz ubiquitin sc 8017 Santa Cruz IKK 2370 Cell Signaling Technology GAPDH 5174 Cell Signaling Technology p38 MAPK 9212 Cell Signaling Technology phopho p38 MAPK 4631 Cell Signaling Technology phospho IKK 2697 Cell Signaling Technology phospho IRAK1 S376 PAB0497 Abnova phospho IRAK1 T209 A1074 AssaybioTech phospho ERK 4695 Cell Signaling Technology Lck 2752 Cell Signaling Technology phospho Lck Tyr505 2751 Cell Signaling Technology IRAK4 4363 Cell Signaling Technology phospho IRAK4 Thr345 Ser346 7652 Cell Signaling Technology Src 2102 Cell Signaling Technology Phospho Src Tyr416 2113 Cell Signaling Technology BCL 2 2870 Cell Signaling Technology and Actin 4968 Cell Signaling Technology .

Total RNA was extracted using Trizol Reagent Life Technologies and reverse transcription was carried out using Superscript VILO Life Technologies . Quantitative PCR was performed with Taqman Master Mix Life Technologies for human IRAK1 Hs01018347 m1 TRAF6 Hs04185733 m1 GAPDH Hs02758991 g1 on an Applied Biosystems StepOne Plus Real Time PCR System.

Lentiviruses were pseudotyped with VSV G produced by 293 FT cells and concentrated by ultracentrifugation at 20 000 rpm for 2 hours at 4 C. Cells at 1 105 mL were transduced with lentivirus at multiplicity of infection MOI of 0.5 1 and in the presence of 8 g mL of polybrene No. TR 1003 G Millipore . At 48 hours post transduction GFP positive cells were isolated by fluorescence activated cell sorting FACS . The pLKO.1 OpenBiosystems constructs were obtained from the Lentiviral core at CCHMC and used to express shCTL empty or scrambled control and shIRAK1. Puromycin resistance gene was replaced by green fluorescent protein GFP . Two independent and validated pLKO.1 shIRAK1 constructs were obtained TRCN0000000543 and TRCN0000000544. After validation majority of experiments were performed with clone TRCN0000000544. For inducible knockdown of IRAK1 we used the TRIPZ doxycycline DOX inducible shRNA system OpenBiosystems expressing shIRAK1 clone V2THS 132369.

Xenograftment of NOD SCID IL2R NSG and NSG hSCF hGM CSF hIL3 NSGS MDSL cells 1 10 5 10 were injected into the tail veins of 8 week old sublethally irradiated 250 Gy NSG or NSG animals engineered to express human SCF GM CSF and IL3 NSGS as previously described Wunderlich et al. 2010 . Mice were monitored by performing complete blood counts Drew Hemavet 950FS . Following red cell lysis human MDSL cells were identified by hCD45 FITC staining. In vivo delivery of IRAK Inh approach is adapted from previous reports Yang et al. 2011 IRAK Inh was diluted in DMSO 5 mM and further dissolved in sterile phosphate buffered saline PBS pH 7.2 . Animals were injected i.p. with 2.12 mg kg IRAK Inh 3 weekly.

MDSL cells were transduced with lentivirus targeting human IRAK1 or a non targeting control. At 2.5 days post transduction GFP positive populations were isolated by flow cytometry. Total RNA was extracted and purified with Quick RNA MiniPrep Kit Zymogen . RNA quality was tested using the Agilent Bioanalyzer 2100 Hewelett Packard . Total RNA was reverse transcribed and labeled and hybridized onto the GeneChip Human Gene 1.0 ST Array Affymetrix . Scanning was performed with the Affymetrix GeneChip Scanner 3000 7G and evaluated with the Genechip Operating Software Affymetrix . Data mining was performed with GeneSpring software Agilent . Gene set enrichment analysis was performed on a JAVA based dataset supported by the Broad Institute Subramanian et al. 2005 . For evaluation of IRAK1 expression in MDS previously published data sets were used Pellagatti et al. 2006 Valk et al. 2004 . All microarray data files have been deposited in the Gene Expression Omnibus accession number GSE46346 .

Results are depicted as the mean standard error of the mean. Statistical analyses were performed using Student s t test. GraphPad Prism v5 GraphPad was used for statistical analysis.

The gene expression data from IRAK Inh and IRAK1 RNAi can be found at the GEO database http. www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov geo using the accession number GSE46346.

This study was approved by the Cleveland Clinic Cleveland Ohio and at Fondazione IRCCS Ca Granda Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico University of Milan Milan Italy . Informed consent was obtained according to protocols approved by the review boards of participating institutions. The study conformed to the ethical standards set out in the Declaration of Helsinki. Diagnoses were reviewed at each of the participating centers and adapted when required to WHO 2008 criteria. For qRT PCR analysis presentation bone marrow aspirates were collected from 20 patients CC1 CC20 Table 1 . For functional studies MDS mononuclear cells from bone marrow aspirates were obtained at diagnosis as part of a multicenter phase 2 trial based in Italy MDS01 MDS08 Table 1 . AML patient samples were acquired following informed consent and under the direction of IRB approved protocols. Human CD34 umbilical cord blood UCB and adult marrow derived mononuclear cells were obtained from Cincinnati Children s Hospital.

IRAK1 mRNA expression was evaluated in two gene expression studies comparing normal and MDS CD34 marrow cells Hofmann et al. 2002 Pellagatti et al. 2010 . Both studies revealed that IRAK1 transcript is overexpressed by approximately 2 fold in 10 30 of MDS patients p 0.036 and p 0.05 respectively . An independent group of MDS patients segregated according to high top 50 and low bottom 50 IRAK1 expression revealed that high IRAK1 expression correlates with reduced overall survival p 0.035 . IRAK1 protein expression was similarly overexpressed in marrow cells from 5 low intermediate risk MDS patients 3 AML patients and in 6 MDS AML cell lines Table 1 suggesting that IRAK1 may be a relevant molecular target in MDS.

IRAK1 is activated in response to lipopolysaccharide LPS or interleukin 1 IL 1 and subsequently becomes phosphorylated p at threonine 209 pIRAK1T209 Kollewe et al. 2004 . To determine the activation status of IRAK1 in MDS we measured pIRAK1T209 by immunoblotting marrow cells from 5 MDS patients. As shown in IRAK1 protein is not only overexpressed but also highly phosphorylated at T209. To confirm these observations we examined normal mononuclear cells MNC cord blood CD34 cells and a panel of 6 MDS AML derived human cell lines. In accordance with MDS patients IRAK1 is overexpressed and hyperphosphorylated at T209 in all the MDS AML cell lines examined but not in normal MNC or CD34 cells . In contrast phosphorylated IRAK1 is observed to a lesser extent in primary AML despite having overexpression of IRAK1 protein suggesting that activated IRAK1 is more pronounced and specific in MDS. Phosphorylation at Serine 376 S376 a residue not implicated in IRAK1 activation was not phosphorylated in any of the cell lines . These findings indicate that IRAK1 is overexpressed and activated in MDS patients.

The level of IRAK1 protein expression is significantly higher relative to IRAK1 mRNA expression in MDS AML cells suggesting that IRAK1 is overexpressed in part through a post transcriptional effect . Since IRAK1 is a validated target of miR 146a a miRNA deleted and implicated in the pathogenesis of MDS Boldin et al. 2011 Starczynowski et al. 2010 Taganov et al. 2006 we evaluated whether loss of miR 146a results in depression of IRAK1 protein in MDS cells. We designed and overexpressed a retroviral miR 146a decoy in MDSL cells which results in 80 downregulation of endogenous miR 146a. Knockdown of miR 146a in MDSL cells resulted in 3 fold increase in IRAK1 and TRAF6 protein another validated miR 146a target . Furthermore miR 146a expression inversely correlated with total IRAK1 mRNA protein and phosphorylated IRAK1 in MDS AML cell lines and MDS patient cells. Although multiple mechanisms may contribute to increase IRAK1 expression and or activation loss of miR 146a may represent a key event in MDS resulting in constitutively active IRAK1. Notwithstanding overexpression and activation of IRAK1 is a common feature in MDS.

A small molecule inhibitor of IRAK1 IRAK1 4 Inh or IRAK Inh which selectively inhibits its kinase activity in a low micromolar range IC50 0.75 M has been initially developed for autoimmune disease Powers et al. 2006 Wang et al. 2009 . To determine whether IRAK Inh can effectively inhibit active IRAK1 in MDS AML cell lines and patient cells we treated cells with an escalating dose of IRAK Inh 0 10 M for 24 hrs. pIRAK1T209 was reduced in a dose dependent manner in MDS AML cell lines . At 10 M IRAK Inh phosphorylated IRAK1 was reduced by 70 in cell lines and patient marrow cells . Examination of kinases with structural homology to IRAK1 revealed that only IRAK1 is a target of IRAK Inh in malignant myeloid cells. Lentiviral mediated IRAK1 or TRAF6 overexpression resulted in increased pIRAK1T209 without exogenous stimulation which is also inhibited by IRAK Inh by 50 . Upon phosphorylation IRAK1 simultaneously undergoes TRAF6 mediated K63 linked ubiquitination which is another indicator of its active state Conze et al. 2008 . In the presence of IRAK Inh immunoprecipitated IP IRAK1 exhibits reduced phosphorylation and K63 linked ubiquitination .

TRAF6 forms a signaling complex with pIRAK1 resulting in IKK complex activation and subsequent NF RelA p65 nuclear DNA binding . As expected TRAF6 overexpression induces phosphorylation of IKK IKK the two catalytic proteins within the IKK complex . In the presence of IRAK Inh 10 M for 24 hrs vector and TRAF6 expressing cells exhibit reduced pIKK IKK but not relevant MAP kinases p38 or ERK . Inhibition of p100 p52 processing which is a measure of non canonical NF activation and is independent of TRAF6 was also completely blocked by the IRAK Inh . In addition DNA bound and active RelA p65 was decreased by 50 in MDS AML cell lines by IRAK Inh indicating that IRAK Inh effectively blocks IRAK1 mediated activation of NF B in MDS AML cells . Lastly TRAF6 undergoes K63 autoubiquitination which is a necessary step prior to NF B activation . Treatment with IRAK Inh also coincides with reduced polyubiquitinated TRAF6 . Taken together IRAK Inh effectively blocks IRAK1 function as is evident by reduced levels of phosphorylated and K63 ubiqutinated IRAK1 reduced autoubiquitination of TRAF6 and impaired NF nuclear DNA binding .

MDS AML cell lines with hyperphosphorylated IRAK1 were evaluated for sensitivity to IRAK Inh. MDS AML cell lines exposed to increasing concentration of IRAK Inh were cultured for up to 6 days in vitro . A significant dose dependent impairment of MDSL TF1 and THP1 cell proliferation was observed in the presence of IRAK Inh . In contrast the proliferation of normal cord blood derived CD34cells which do not exhibit activation of IRAK1 was not affected with even high doses of IRAK Inh . Despite having hyperphosphorylated IRAK1 and exhibiting reduced pIRAK1 after IRAK Inh treatment the viability of HL60 cells and primary AML marrow cells was only modestly reduced with IRAK Inh . In support of this observation the inhibitory effect of IRAK Inh on the cell lines correlated with the level of phosphorylated IRAK1 R2 0.36 . In parallel cell viability was examined after 48 hrs of treatment with the IRAK Inh. All cell lines exhibited a modest increase in apoptosis . To investigate whether IRAK Inh affects cell cycle progression MDSL cells were treated with 10 M IRAK Inh for up to 6 days and evaluated by BrdU 7AAD staining . Consistent with reduced proliferation MDSL cells treated with IRAK Inh have altered cell cycle kinetics there are fewer viable MDSL cells in S phase 4.3 0.4 versus 14.2 0.2 p 0.0002 and increased proportion in G0 G1 62.7 1.1 versus 54.5 0.7 p 0.008 . In addition the proportion of sub G0 cells was significantly increased in IRAK Inh treated cells 5.4 0.3 versus 1.8 0.2 p 0.003 .

The effect of IRAK Inh on leukemic progenitor function was evaluated in methylcellulose containing IRAK Inh. Normal CD34formed equivalent number of colonies with moderate skewing of erythroid and granulocytic macrocytic progenitors p

We evaluated marrow cells from 7 MDS and 3 AML patient samples with various cytogenetic features to determine whether IRAK1 inhibition is also effective in primary patient cells Table S1 . MDS marrow cells treated with IRAK Inh for 48 hrs failed to expand and exhibited increased levels of apoptotic cells except for MDS 07 . In contrast vehicle control treated MDS cells expanded nearly 2 fold during this time and had significantly fewer apoptotic cells . AML marrow cells treated with IRAK Inh continued to grow similar to control treated cells. Since MDS and AML stem progenitor cells are clonal and the disease propagating cells form colonies in methylcellulose we also evaluated the effects of IRAK Inh on colony formation. Whether continuously treated or briefly exposed to IRAK Inh MDS marrow cells formed significantly fewer colonies in the presence of IRAK Inh. In contrast IRAK Inh did not affect AML or control CD34 cell progenitor function . These findings indicate that IRAK Inh selectively inhibits growth and progenitor function of primary MDS marrow cells and that IRAK Inh sensitivity is a general feature of MDS independent of existing genetic features.

Primary MDS patient samples remain difficult to engraft into immunodeficient mice typically with less than 5 marrow engraftment and no evidence of disease Martin et al. 2011 Park et al. 2011 . To circumvent this limitation we developed a xenograft model using an MDS patient derived cell line MDSL which has retained phenotypic and cellular characteristics of MDS Matsuoka et al. 2010 Tohyama et al. 1995 . Consistent with non transforming MDS subtypes the MDSL cell line does not form overt leukemia in NSGS or NSG mice. Instead MDSL cells engraft into the marrow and gradually expand over time within the marrow spleen and peripheral blood as a non blast incompletely differentiating myeloid population. Xenografted mice develop progressive anemia thrombocytopenia and extramedullary hematopoiesis and eventually succumb to disease. Disease progression and MDSL expansion in the marrow is accompanied by depletion of normal mouse hematopoietic cells and a hypocellular marrow.

To determine whether IRAK Inh can delay human MDS like disease in vivo MDSL were pre treated with IRAK Inh 10 M for 24 hrs in vitro and subsequently injected intravenously i.v. into NSG 5 10cells and NSGS 1 10cells recipient mice . This approach permitted us to evaluate the cell autonomous effect of IRAK Inh on MDS cell viability and engraftment without altering endogenous IRAK1 function in the mouse. As shown in pretreatment with IRAK Inh significantly delayed the MDS like disease in NSG mice median survival 80 days vs 68 days p 0.0065 and in NSGS mice median survival 38 days vs 29 days p 0.028 . NSGS mice transplanted with IRAK Inh treated MDSL cells also had significantly improved red blood cell numbers p 0.0085 hemoglobin p 0.012 hematocrit p 0.015 and platelets p 0.02 . In addition the human MDSL graft was reduced from 8 to 2 . Morphological assessment confirmed normal RBC and reduced MDS grafts in the peripheral blood and marrow of mice transplanted with IRAK Inh treated MDSL cells . To demonstrate that the IRAK Inh can also ameliorate disease after cells have engrafted MDSL were injected i.v. into NSG mice followed by intraperitoneal i.p. injection of IRAK Inh . Mice receiving IRAK Inh maintained HCT and Hb levels while control mice exhibited a progressive anemia . Within 7 days of receiving IRAK Inh mice had reduced human graft in the peripheral blood . These findings indicate that IRAK Inh targets the disease propagating cell and provides a significant survival benefit in a xenograft model of human MDS.

To validate the effects and specificity of the IRAK Inh lentiviral vectors encoding independent short hairpin RNAs shRNA targeting IRAK1 were transduced into MDS AML cell lines and MDS patient marrow cells. We confirmed targeting of IRAK1 by immunoblotting and quantitative RT PCR qRT PCR . Although IRAK Inh induced only a modest apoptotic affect all MDS AML cell lines with depletion of IRAK1 correlated with a significant increase in apoptosis . Knockdown of IRAK1 in CD34cells did not induce apoptosis indicating that IRAK1 is dispensable for normal CD34viability . MDS AML cell lines and MDS patient samples with knockdown of IRAK1 also exhibited a significant decrease in progenitor colonies in methylcellulose . Normal CD34were not sensitive to loss of IRAK1 and formed colonies at the same level to control transduced CD34cells . To examine the effects of IRAK1 depletion in vivo MDSL cells were transduced with a doxycycline DOX inducible shIRAK1 pTRIPZ . Increasing amounts of DOX in vitro demonstrated a dose dependent deletion of IRAK1 mRNA and protein as well as reduced cell viability . The effects of IRAK1 knockdown were rescued by expressing a hairpin resistant IRAK1 cDNA. Transduced MDSL cells were injected into NSG mice and six days post transplant mice were given chow with or without DOX. Expression of the shRNA is observed in the marrow spleen and blood of DOX treated mice but not expressed in control mice. Without IRAK1 knockdown minus DOX or non transduced parental MDSL cells mice developed the MDS like disease . In contrast IRAK1 knockdown plus DOX reduced engraftment of MDS cells PB 15 versus 5 BM 40 vs 10 and spleen size and significantly delayed mortality in mice p 0.001 . Collectively these data suggest that genetic depletion of IRAK1 results in reduced viability and growth of MDS AML progenitor cells in vitro and in vivo. In addition a more profound effect on MDS AML survival and progenitor function was observed following depletion of IRAK1 as compared to the IRAK Inh.

Expression Profiling Following Deletion or Inhibition of IRAK1 Reveals Overlapping Gene Signatures and a Compensatory Increase in BCL2

We performed a gene expression analysis to 1 gain insight into the molecular consequences of inhibiting IRAK1 in MDS cells and 2 define an underlying mechanism for the discrepancy between IRAK Inh and shIRAK1 apoptotic threshold in MDS AML cells. MDSL cells were either transduced with shIRAK1 or control or treated with IRAK Inh or DMSO for 48 hours followed by RNA collection for a microarray analysis . At this time point we observe 50 knockdown of IRAK1 mRNA by the shRNA and minimal effect on cell viability. Inhibition of IRAK1 by either approach in MDSL resulted in 180 differentially expressed genes . We searched for previously defined expression signatures that overlap genes regulated by both IRAK Inh and shIRAK1 by using gene set enrichment analysis GSEA Subramanian et al. 2005 . Of the top 10 significant GSEA sets in each group 3 gene sets were identical between IRAK Inh and shIRAK1 MDSL cells indicating that IRAK1 is effectively targeted by both approaches and that inhibition by either approach induced a similar transcriptional response. Of the top GSEA sets survival IL6 Starve Up and cell cycle proliferation Cell Cycle and MM CD138 PR vs REST were the most significant in both IRAK Inh and shIRAK1 experimental groups . To better understand the cellular and molecular consequences following IRAK1 inhibition deletion we examined the Gene Ontology categories using ToppGene Chen et al. 2009 . Knockdown of IRAK1 resulted in down regulation of genes involved in chromatic assembly DNA binding and RNA metabolism . IRAK Inh treatment resulted in downregulation of genes involved in cell migration and adhesion inflammatory response and cytokine mediated signaling .

Despite the overlap in gene sets we examined genes that could explain the discrepancy between IRAK Inh and shIRAK1 in inducing apoptosis of MDS AML cells. Although IRAK Inh upregulated pro apoptotic genes e.g. BIM CASP10 RIPK1 downregulation of anti apoptotic Bcl2 family genes was not evident. As an example BCL2 mRNA and protein was not downregulated in IRAK Inh treated cells surprisingly BCL2 expression was increased in several of the cell lines examined an effect not observed in shIRAK1 expressing cells . This observation prompted us to speculate that a subset of MDS AML progenitors escape IRAK Inh induced apoptosis because of a compensatory upregulation or inefficient downregulation of BCL2.

We examined the survival dependence on BCL2 function in IRAK Inh treated cells by utilizing a BH3 mimetic ABT 263 Abbott Laboratories . Administration of IRAK Inh 10 M or ABT 263 0.1 M alone had modest effects in inhibiting MDS AML cell line growth and survival . Strikingly co treatment of the MDS AML cells with IRAK Inh and ABT 263 significantly and synergistically inhibited cell growth and survival . In particular HL60 cells which were refractory to the inhibitory effects of IRAK Inh or ABT 263 alone are extremely sensitive to the combined treatment with ABT 263 . In addition MDS AML cell lines and MDS patient progenitor colonies were significantly impaired with the combination treatment of IRAK Inh and ABT 263 . For AML patient cells that are not sensitive to IRAK Inh treatment alone co treatment with ABT 263 also resulted in reduced leukemic progenitor function . The viability and hematopoietic progenitor function in methylcellulose of normal CD34 cells was not affected by the individual or combination treatment of IRAK Inh and ABT 263.

Moreover we investigated whether combined IRAK1 and BCL2 inhibition could delay human MDS like disease in vivo. MDSL cells were treated with IRAK Inh 10 M and or ABT 263 0.1 M for 48 hrs in vitro and subsequently injected i.v. into NSGS mice . Treatment with IRAK Inh or ABT 263 alone significantly delayed the MDS like disease in NSG mice with a median survival of 35 days versus 28 days with DMSO treatment . Mice receiving MDSL co treated with IRAK Inh and ABT 263 exhibited a significantly enhanced survival 43 days as compared to individual drugs or DMSO . Not only was survival extended but mice transplanted with cells pre treated with the drug combination had improved red blood cell hemoglobin and platelet counts not shown . In conclusion inhibition of IRAK1 function with a small molecular inhibitor may represent a treatment to inhibit MDS clone function and viability while co treatment with ABT 263 results in enhanced cytotoxicity.

IRAK1 is a serine threonine kinase that mediates signals from TLR IL1R to NF KB under normal conditions Flannery and Bowie 2011 . Following receptor activation MyD88 recruits IRAK4 and IRAK1 resulting in IRAK1 hyperphosphorylation. IRAK1 phosphorylation at Thr 209 which is mediated by upstream signals or through autophosphorylation is a key post translational modification and a hallmark of its activation Kollewe et al. 2004 . Once phosphorylated IRAK1 binds TRAF6 and undergoes K63 linked ubiquitination Conze et al. 2008 . This interaction between IRAK1 and TRAF6 initiates a signaling cascade resulting in NF nuclear translocation Conze et al. 2008 . Small molecule inhibitors targeting IRAK1 have been originally developed for autoimmune and inflammatory diseases Durand Reville et al. 2008 Wang et al. 2009 . Given that the TRAF6 IRAK1 signaling complex remains in an activated state in MDS Fang et al. 2012 Starczynowski and Karsan 2010 Starczynowski et al. 2010 it is not surprising that inhibiting this complex may have a therapeutic benefit in MDS and represent a viable approach to inhibit NF preferentially in malignant clones with activated IRAK1. Notably most NF inhibitors to date have been disappointing for the treatment of myeloid malignancies due to toxicity Breccia and Alimena 2010 .

Although IRAK1 mRNA is overexpressed in a subset of MDS patients the level of expression rarely exceeds 2 fold. However deletion and reduced expression of miR 146a is a common event in MDS as it resides within the deleted region on chr 5q and its expression is reduced in a large subset of normal karyotype MDS Starczynowski et al. 2010 Starczynowski et al. 2011b . TRAF6 and IRAK1 are two targets of miR 146a and germline knockout of miR 146a results in derepression of TRAF6 and IRAK1 protein Boldin et al. 2011 Zhao et al. 2011 . We confirmed a similar effect in MDS cells. This suggests that IRAK1 is transcriptionally and translationally upregulated in MDS patients making it a relevant molecular target. IRAK1 mRNA protein is also overexpressed in subsets of AML patients Camos et al. 2006 supporting our observations that targeting IRAK1 may extend to high risk MDS and AML with active IRAK1.

Phosphorylation and activation of IRAK1 can also occur by gain of function mutations or aberrant expression of upstream signaling molecules. For example human lymphomas with oncogenically active MyD88 mutations have constitutive IRAK1 phosphorylation and NF activation and are sensitive to IRAK inhibitors Ngo et al. 2010 . In Fanconi anemia IRAK1 exists in a hyperphosphorylated higher molecular weight state potentially as a consequence of aberrant TLR8 signaling Vanderwerf et al. 2009 . Of note mutations in MyD88 or TLR8 have not been reported in MDS or AML suggesting that alternate molecular alterations activate IRAK1 in MDS AML. However mutations of TLR2 are reported in 10 of MDS patients Wei et al. 2012 and a recent finding identified overexpression of interleukin 1 receptor accessory protein IL1RAP in HSC from MDS and AML patients Barreyro et al. 2012 . Consistent with the hypothesis that hyperphosphorylation of IRAK1 in MDS may be due to aberrant activation downstream of the TLR IL1R a retrospective analysis revealed that chronic immune stimulation acts as a trigger and increases the risk for MDS and AML development Kristinsson et al. 2011 . Collectively these observations suggest that in addition to downregulation of miR 146a multiple other molecular alterations can converge on and activate IRAK1 in MDS.

According to our integrative gene expression analysis inhibition of IRAK1 revealed that IRAK1 regulates genes involved in survival cell cycle proliferation chromatic assembly DNA binding RNA metabolism cell migration adhesion and inflammation . These gene signatures are consistent with our observation that inhibiting IRAK1 in primary MDS marrow or cell lines results in delayed proliferation reduced survival and impaired progenitor function. IRAK Inh was inefficient at downregulating pro survival BCL2 genes and in some cell lines resulted in a compensatory increase in BCL2 expression which is a common cellular response to cytostatic and cytotoxic therapies Thomadaki and Scorilas 2008 . To overcome this compensatory effect we combined a BCL2 inhibitor ABT 263 with IRAK Inh which resulted in potent collaborative cytotoxic effects in MDS and AML cells by inducing rapid and profound apoptosis. Notably this effect was observed even in MDS AML cells that did not exhibit a compensatory increase in BCL2 expression in response to IRAK Inh. That IRAK Inh is effective at suppressing MDS cells but not AML can be explained by 1 an increased apoptotic threshold in high risk MDS and AML due to higher expression of prosurvival BCL2 family members thus necessitating co treatment with a BCL2 inhibitor 2 the level of activated IRAK1 in AML is lower as compared to MDS suggesting differences in the molecular circuitry of IRAK1 activation and or 3 only select subtypes of AML are sensitive to IRAK Inh while a larger proportion of MDS are sensitive.

The complexity and heterogeneity of MDS and the lack of human xenograft models remain as obstacles to identifying and evaluating novel molecular targets for this disease. In addition primary MDS cells do not efficiently engraft into immunodeficient mice Martin et al. 2011 Park et al. 2011 . To overcome this limitation we generated a human model using an MDS derived patient cell line MDSL . Consistent with phenotypic and cellular characteristics of MDS Matsuoka et al. 2010 Tohyama et al. 1995 MDSL engraftment into NSG or NSGS immunodeficient mice results in a fatal and progressive anemia thrombocytopenia hypocellular marrow and extramedullary hematopoiesis. Treatment of MDSL cells with IRAK Inh or in vivo delivery of the inhibitor reduced the number of MDSL cells and delayed disease. This xenograft model represents an alternative to examine the mechanisms of low risk MDS disease and a tool for preclinical studies using an MDS derived patient cell line.

In summary this work implicates IRAK1 as a drugable target for MDS. Inhibition with IRAK Inh induces combined apoptosis and a cell cycle block while inhibition with ABT 263 results in collaborative cytotoxicity in MDS cells Inhibitors targeting IRAK1 reveal an avenue for suppressing altered TLR IL1R TRAF6 NF B pathway and eliminating the MDS clone.

Bar M. Stirewalt D. Pogosova Agadjanyan E. Wagner V. Gooley T. Abbasi N. Bhatia R. Deeg H. J. and Radich J. 2008 . Gene expression patterns in myelodyplasia underline the role of apoptosis and differentiation in disease initiation and progression. Translational oncogenomics 3 137 149.

Barreyro L. Will B. Bartholdy B. Zhou L. Todorova T. I. Stanley R. F. Ben Neriah S. Montagna C. Parekh S. Pellagatti A. et al. 2012 . Overexpression of interleukin 1 receptor accessory protein in stem and progenitor cells and outcome correlation in AML and MDS. Blood.

Boldin M. P. Taganov K. D. Rao D. S. Yang L. Zhao J. L. Kalwani M. Garcia Flores Y. Luong M. Devrekanli A. Xu J. et al. 2011 . miR 146a is a significant brake on autoimmunity myeloproliferation and cancer in mice. J Exp Med 208 1189 1201.

Breccia M. and Alimena G. 2010 . NF kappaB as a potential therapeutic target in myelodysplastic syndromes and acute myeloid leukemia. Expert opinion on therapeutic targets 14 1157 1176.

Camos M. Esteve J. Jares P. Colomer D. Rozman M. Villamor N. Costa D. Curio A. Nomdedeu J. Montserrat E. and Campo E. 2006 . Gene expression profiling of acute myeloid leukemia with translocation t 8 16 p11 p13 and MYST3 CREBBP rearrangement reveals a distinctive signature with a specific pattern of HOX gene expression. Cancer Res 66 6947 6954.

Chen G. Zeng W. Miyazato A. Billings E. Maciejewski J. P. Kajigaya S. Sloand E. M. and Young N. S. 2004 . Distinctive gene expression profiles of CD34 cells from patients with myelodysplastic syndrome characterized by specific chromosomal abnormalities. Blood 104 4210 4218.

Chen J. Bardes E. E. Aronow B. J. and Jegga A. G. 2009 . ToppGene Suite for gene list enrichment analysis and candidate gene prioritization. Nucleic Acids Res 37 W305 311.

Conze D. B. Wu C. J. Thomas J. A. Landstrom A. and Ashwell J. D. 2008 . Lys63 linked polyubiquitination of IRAK 1 is required for interleukin 1 receptor and toll like receptor mediated NF kappaB activation. Mol Cell Biol 28 3538 3547.

Corey S. J. Minden M. D. Barber D. L. Kantarjian H. Wang J. C. and Schimmer A. D. 2007 . Myelodysplastic syndromes the complexity of stem cell diseases. Nat Rev Cancer 7 118 129.

Durand Reville T. Jewell C. Hammond C. and Chin D. 2008 . IRAK modulators for treating an inflammatory condition cell proliferation disorder immune disorder. In Biogen Idec .

Ebert B. L. 2010 . Preface. The biology and treatment of myelodysplastic syndrome. Hematology oncology clinics of North America 24 xiii xvi.

Fang J. Rhyasen G. Bolanos L. Rasch C. Varney M. Wunderlich M. Goyama S. Jansen G. Cloos J. Rigolino C. et al. 2012 . Cytotoxic effects of bortezomib in myelodysplastic syndrome acute myeloid leukemia depend on autophagy mediated lysosomal degradation of TRAF6 and repression of PSMA1. Blood.

Flannery S. and Bowie A. G. 2011 . The interleukin 1 receptor associated kinases critical regulators of innate immune signalling. Biochem Pharmacol 80 1981 1991.

Gondek L. P. Tiu R. O Keefe C. L. Sekeres M. A. Theil K. S. and Maciejewski J. P. 2008 . Chromosomal lesions and uniparental disomy detected by SNP arrays in MDS MDS MPD and MDS derived AML. Blood 111 1534 1542.

Greenberg P. Cox C. LeBeau M. M. Fenaux P. Morel P. Sanz G. Sanz M. Vallespi T. Hamblin T. Oscier D. et al. 1997 . International scoring system for evaluating prognosis in myelodysplastic syndromes. Blood 89 2079 2088.

Greenberg P. L. 2010 . Current therapeutic approaches for patients with myelodysplastic syndromes. Br J Haematol 150 131 143.

Hofmann W. K. de Vos S. Komor M. Hoelzer D. Wachsman W. and Koeffler H. P. 2002 . Characterization of gene expression of CD34 cells from normal and myelodysplastic bone marrow. Blood 100 3553 3560.

Kollewe C. Mackensen A. C. Neumann D. Knop J. Cao P. Li S. Wesche H. and Martin M. U. 2004 . Sequential autophosphorylation steps in the interleukin 1 receptor associated kinase 1 regulate its availability as an adapter in interleukin 1 signaling. J Biol Chem 279 5227 5236.

Kristinsson S. Y. Bjorkholm M. Hultcrantz M. Derolf A. R. Landgren O. and Goldin L. R. 2011 . Chronic immune stimulation might act as a trigger for the development of acute myeloid leukemia or myelodysplastic syndromes. J Clin Oncol 29 2897 2903.

Martin M. G. Welch J. S. Uy G. L. Fehniger T. A. Kulkarni S. Duncavage E. J. and Walter M. J. 2011 . Limited engraftment of low risk myelodysplastic syndrome cells in NOD SCID gamma C chain knockout mice. Leukemia 24 1662 1664.

Matsuoka A. Tochigi A. Kishimoto M. Nakahara T. Kondo T. Tsujioka T. Tasaka T. Tohyama Y. and Tohyama K. 2010 . Lenalidomide induces cell death in an MDS derived cell line with deletion of chromosome 5q by inhibition of cytokinesis. Leukemia 24 748 755.

Ngo V. N. Young R. M. Schmitz R. Jhavar S. Xiao W. Lim K. H. Kohlhammer H. Xu W. Yang Y. Zhao H. et al. 2010 . Oncogenically active MYD88 mutations in human lymphoma. Nature 470 115 119.

O Dwyer M. E. Mauro M. J. and Druker B. J. 2003 . STI571 as a targeted therapy for CML. Cancer Invest 21 429 438.

Park C. Pang W. Price E. Pluvinage J. Schrier S. and Weissman I. 2011 . Hematopoietic Stem Cells Are the Disease Initiating Cells in the Myelodysplastic Syndromes. Paper presented at ASH Annual Meeting San Diego Calif. .

Pellagatti A. Cazzola M. Giagounidis A. Perry J. Malcovati L. Della Porta M. G. Jadersten M. Killick S. Verma A. Norbury C. J. et al. 2010 . Deregulated gene expression pathways in myelodysplastic syndrome hematopoietic stem cells. Leukemia 24 756 764.

Powers J. P. Li S. Jaen J. C. Liu J. Walker N. P. Wang Z. and Wesche H. 2006 . Discovery and initial SAR of inhibitors of interleukin 1 receptor associated kinase 4. Bioorg Med Chem Lett 16 2842 2845.

Sekeres M. A. 2010a . Are we nearer to curing patients with MDS Best Pract Res Clin Haematol 23 481 487.

Sekeres M. A. 2010b . The epidemiology of myelodysplastic syndromes. Hematology oncology clinics of North America 24 287 294.

Sigua C. A. Chen D. T. et al. 2011 . Identification of a risk dependent microRNA expression signature in myelodysplastic syndromes. Br J Haematol 153 24 32.

Starczynowski D. T. and Karsan A. 2010 . Innate immune signaling in the myelodysplastic syndromes. Hematol Oncol Clin North Am 24 343 359.

Starczynowski D. T. Kuchenbauer F. Argiropoulos B. Sung S. Morin R. Muranyi A. Hirst M. Hogge D. Marra M. Wells R. A. et al. 2010 . Identification of miR 145 and miR146a as mediators of the 5q syndrome phenotype. Nat Med 16 49 58.

Starczynowski D. T. Kuchenbauer F. Wegrzyn J. Rouhi A. Petriv O. Hansen C. L. Humphries R. K. and Karsan A. 2011a . MicroRNA 146a disrupts hematopoietic differentiation and survival. Exp Hematol 39 167 178 e164.

Starczynowski D. T. Morin R. McPherson A. Lam J. Chari R. Wegrzyn J. Kuchenbauer F. Hirst M. Tohyama K. Humphries R. K. et al. 2011b . Genome wide identification of human microRNAs located in leukemia associated genomic alterations. Blood 117 595 607.

Subramanian A. Tamayo P. Mootha V. K. Mukherjee S. Ebert B. L. Gillette M. A. Paulovich A. Pomeroy S. L. Golub T. R. Lander E. S. and Mesirov J. P. 2005 . Gene set enrichment analysis a knowledge based approach for interpreting genome wide expression profiles. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 102 15545 15550.

Taganov K. D. Boldin M. P. Chang K. J. and Baltimore D. 2006 . NF kappaB dependent induction of microRNA miR 146 an inhibitor targeted to signaling proteins of innate immune responses. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 103 12481 12486.

Tehranchi R. Woll P. S. Anderson K. Buza Vidas N. Mizukami T. Mead A. J. Astrand Grundstrom I. Strombeck B. Horvat A. Ferry H. et al. 2010 . Persistent malignant stem cells in del 5q myelodysplasia in remission. N Engl J Med 363 1025 1037.

Thomadaki H. and Scorilas A. 2008 . Molecular profile of the BCL2 family of the apoptosis related genes in breast cancer cells after treatment with cytotoxic cytostatic drugs. Connect Tissue Res 49 261 264.

Tohyama K. Tohyama Y. Nakayama T. Ueda T. Nakamura T. and Yoshida Y. 1995 . A novel factor dependent human myelodysplastic cell line MDS92 contains haemopoietic cells of several lineages. Br J Haematol 91 795 799.

Vanderwerf S. M. Svahn J. Olson S. Rathbun R. K. Harrington C. Yates J. Keeble W. Anderson D. C. Anur P. Pereira N. F. et al. 2009 . TLR8 dependent TNF alpha overexpression in Fanconi anemia group C cells. Blood 114 5290 5298.

Vasikova A. Belickova M. Budinska E. and Cermak J. 2010 . A distinct expression of various gene subsets in CD34 cells from patients with early and advanced myelodysplastic syndrome. Leuk Res 34 1566 1572.

Wang Z. Wesche H. Stevens T. Walker N. and Yeh W. C. 2009 . IRAK 4 inhibitors for inflammation. Curr Top Med Chem 9 724 737.

Wei Y. Chen R. Dimicoli S. Bueso Ramos C. E. Neuberg D. S. Pierce S. A. Yang H. Jia Y. Zheng H. Fang Z. et al. 2012 . Deregulation of TLR2 JMJD3 Innate Immunity Signaling Including a Rare TLR2 SNP As a Potential Somatic Mutation in Myelodysplastic Syndromes MDS . In American Society of Hematology Atlanta Ga. .

Wunderlich M. Chou F. S. Link K. A. Mizukawa B. Perry R. L. Carroll M. and Mulloy J. C. 2010 . AML xenograft efficiency is significantly improved in NOD SCID IL2RG mice constitutively expressing human SCF GM CSF and IL 3. Leukemia 24 1785 1788.

H. and Zhu G. 2011 . Interleukin 1 receptor associated kinases 1 4 inhibition protects against acute hypoxia ischemia induced neuronal injury in vivo and in vitro. Neuroscience 196 25 34.

Zhao J. L. Rao D. S. Boldin M. P. Taganov K. D. O Connell R. M. and Baltimore D. 2011 . NF kappaB dysregulation in microRNA 146a deficient mice drives the development of myeloid malignancies. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 108 9184 9189.

Pellagatti A. Cazzola M. Giagounidis A. A. Malcovati L. Porta M. G. Killick S. Campbell L. J. Wang L. Langford C. F. Fidler C. et al. 2006 . Gene expression profiles of CD34 cells in myelodysplastic syndromes involvement of interferon stimulated genes and correlation to FAB subtype and karyotype. Blood 108 337 345.

Starczynowski D. T. Lockwood W. W. Delehouzee S. Chari R. Wegrzyn J. Fuller M. Tsao M. S. Lam S. Gazdar A. F. Lam W. L. and Karsan A. 2011 . TRAF6 is an amplified oncogene bridging the RAS and NF kappaB pathways in human lung cancer. J Clin Invest 121 4095 4105. Tse C. Shoemaker A. R. Adickes J. Anderson M. G. Chen J. Jin S. Johnson E. F. Marsh K. C. Mitten M. J. Nimmer P. et al. 2008 . ABT 263 a potent and orally bioavailable Bcl 2 family inhibitor. Cancer Res 68 3421 3428.

Valk P. J. Verhaak R. G. Beijen M. A. Erpelinck C. A. Barjesteh van Waalwijk van Doorn Khosrovani S. Boer J. M. Beverloo H. B. Moorhouse M. J. van der Spek P. J. Lowenberg B. and Delwel R. 2004 . Prognostically useful gene expression profiles in acute myeloid leukemia. N Engl J Med 350 1617 1628.

It should be understood that every maximum numerical limitation given throughout this specification includes every lower numerical limitation as if such lower numerical limitations were expressly written herein. Every minimum numerical limitation given throughout this specification will include every higher numerical limitation as if such higher numerical limitations were expressly written herein. Every numerical range given throughout this specification will include every narrower numerical range that falls within such broader numerical range as if such narrower numerical ranges were all expressly written herein.

The dimensions and values disclosed herein are not to be understood as being strictly limited to the exact numerical values recited. Instead unless otherwise specified each such dimension is intended to mean both the recited value and a functionally equivalent range surrounding that value. For example a dimension disclosed as 20 mm is intended to mean about 20 mm. 

Every document cited herein including any cross referenced or related patent or application is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety unless expressly excluded or otherwise limited. The citation of any document is not an admission that it is prior art with respect to any invention disclosed or claimed herein or that it alone or in any combination with any other reference or references teaches suggests or discloses any such invention. Further to the extent that any meaning or definition of a term in this document conflicts with any meaning or definition of the same term in a document incorporated by reference the meaning or definition assigned to that term in this document shall govern.

While particular embodiments of the present invention have been illustrated and described it would be obvious to those skilled in the art that various other changes and modifications can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. It is therefore intended to cover in the appended claims all such changes and modifications that are within the scope of this invention.

