---

title: Integrated construction portal
abstract: Method and system disclosed herein provides generating a three-dimensional construction grid based on a data file generated by an architectural software, wherein the three-dimensional grid includes three-dimensional position information of various structural building components; displaying the three-dimensional construction grid using a display device of a computing device; receiving information of various non-structural building components, the information including location of the non-structural building components on the three-dimensional grid; associating the non-structural building components to one or more of the structural components of the three-dimensional grid; and automatically generating a plurality of specifications for the non-structural building components.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09424374&OS=09424374&RS=09424374
owner: PATCO, LLC
number: 09424374
owner_city: Denver
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150413
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 838 723 entitled INTEGRATED CONSTRUCTION PORTAL and filed on Mar. 15 2013 now allowed which claims benefit of priority to U.S. Non Provisional application Ser. No. 13 719 561 entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM OF USING STANDARDIZED STRUCTURAL COMPONENTS and filed on Dec. 19 2012 which claims benefit of U.S. Non Provisional application Ser. No. 12 964 380 entitled PANELIZED STRUCTURAL SYSTEM FOR BUILDING CONSTRUCTION and filed on Dec. 9 2010 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 288 011 filed on Dec. 18 2009 all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The present disclosure relates to a method and system for constructing and assembling buildings using panelized and modular structural system.

A building s structure must withstand physical forces or displacements without danger of collapse or without loss of serviceability or function. The stresses on buildings are withstood by the buildings structures.

Buildings five stories and less in height typically use a bearing wall structural system to manage dead and live load vertical forces. Vertical forces on the roof floors and walls of a structure are passed vertically from the roof to the walls to the foundation by evenly spreading the loads on the walls and by increasing the size and density of the framing or frame structure from upper floors progressively downward to lower floors floor to floor. For ceilings and floor spans trusses are used to support loads on the ceilings and floors and to transfer these loads to walls and columns.

Where vertical bearing elements are absent for example at window and door openings beams are used to transfer loads to columns or walls. In buildings taller than five stories where the walls have limited capacity to support vertical loads concrete and or structural steel framing in the form of large beams and columns are used to support the structure.

Lateral forces e.g. wind and seismic forces acting on buildings are managed and transferred by bracing. A common method of constructing a braced wall line in buildings typically 5 stories or less is to create braced panels in the wall line using structural sheathing. A more traditional method is to use let in diagonal bracing throughout the wall line but this method is not viable for buildings with many openings for doors windows etc. The lateral forces in buildings taller than five stories are managed and transferred by heavy steel let in bracing or heavy steel and or concrete panels as well as structural core elements such as concrete or masonry stair towers and elevator hoistways.

There is a need for a panelized and modular system for constructing and assembling buildings without relying on concrete and or structural steel framing heavy steel let in bracing and heavy steel and or concrete panels.

Method and system disclosed herein provides generating a three dimensional construction grid based on a data file generated by an architectural software wherein the three dimensional grid includes three dimensional position information of various structural building components displaying the three dimensional construction grid using a display device of a computing device receiving information of various non structural building components the information including location of the non structural building components on the three dimensional grid associating the non structural building components to one or more of the structural components of the three dimensional grid and automatically generating a plurality of specifications for the non structural building components.

In some implementations articles of manufacture are provided as computer program products. One implementation of a computer program product provides a computer program storage medium readable by a computer system and encoding a computer program. Another implementation of a computer program product may be provided in a computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave by a computing system and encoding the computer program.

The Unified Truss Construction System UTCS disclosed herein is a unique new and innovative structural system for single and multistory buildings based on standardized structural panels. The system employs a limited number of configurations of uniquely engineered light gauge metal framed vertical wall panels horizontal truss panels light gauge metal floor and ceiling trusses cold rolled square or rectangular steel tubing structural columns and unique connecting plates and clips.

Unlike conventional approaches to designing and engineering a building s structure where many different assemblies walls columns beams bracing strapping and the fasteners that fasten them together are employed to manage vertical live load and dead load forces and lateral forces UTCS manages these forces through a limited number of uniquely designed standardized horizontal truss panels which are assembled with structural columns and trusses. This unique assembly of elements effectively supports and transfers vertical and lateral forces from the walls floor ceiling and roof to UTCS redundant and dense column system. Accordingly columns absorb these vertical and lateral forces such that UTCS is not a vertical bearing wall structural system and eliminates the need for hot formed structural steel weighted steel or red iron and concrete as part of a building s structural system.

UTCS framing members are made from specially designed computerized roll forming machines. These machines manufacture framing studs or members from cold rolled steel commonly referred to as coiled steel. Each stud is cut to size pre drilled for fastening screws with countersinks at the assembly screw head area pre punched for chasing mechanical electrical and plumbing MEP assemblies and rough ins pre punched for passing vertical and horizontal bracing and labeled for assembly. The machines read stud specifications from CAD files.

Horizontal truss panels and the trusses used in UTCS are constructed with framing members roll formed from light gauge steel such as 18 to 14 gauge steel depending on building height and code requirements. There are two profiles of framing members used in the horizontal truss panels a stud illustrated in and a track illustrated in . The stud and the track are each rolled from light gauge steel such as 18 to 14 gauge steel.

Each of the stud and the track includes a web flanges and lips formed as illustrated in . The flanges extend in the same direction at substantially right angles from opposing sides of the web and the lips extend inwardly from ends of the flanges such that the lips parallel the web . The stud and the track differ mainly in that the flanges of the track are slightly higher than the flanges of the stud and the web of the track is slightly wider than the web of the stud . These relative dimensions allow the stud to slide into or through the track without the need to compress the flanges of the stud which affects its structural performance.

UTCS employs a limited number such as two configurations of horizontal truss panels. These horizontal truss panels are the structural wall elements of UTCS. If only two such configurations are used they are a a V braced horizontal truss panel shown in or which contains a V shaped brace V brace and b an open horizontal truss panel shown in which does not contain a V brace.

An open horizontal truss panel is generally used in any area of a building having large openings windows doors pass throughs and the like in a UTCS structure. The open horizontal truss panel is engineered to support and transfer vertical live occupancy for example and dead load forces e.g. drywall MEP assemblies insulation and the like from floor and ceiling assemblies attached either to or proximate to each panel within a building Local Forces . The V braced horizontal truss panel is engineered to support vertical local forces and lateral forces acting on the structure wind and seismic for example .

As shown in the V braced horizontal truss panel has a top track and a bottom track . Inboard of the top track is a continuous horizontal brace comprised of back to back web to web tracks and referred to as double horizontal bracing which are anchored by fasteners such as bolts or screws to side studs and at the sides of the V braced horizontal truss panel . The top track and the bottom track are also anchored by fasteners to the side studs and . The area between the continuous horizontal brace formed by the tracks and and the top track contains vertical angled webbing made from studs. This braced area in acts as a truss attachment area within the V braced horizontal truss panel for the attachment of trusses discussed below and supports and transfers forces exerted on the V braced horizontal truss panel to the structural columns discussed below and attached to each of the side studs and of the V braced horizontal truss panel .

The V braced horizontal truss panel also has two inboard studs and and a center stud anchored by fasteners to the top and bottom tracks and and to the tracks and . The side studs and pass through end cutouts in the ends of the web and in the lips of the tracks and such that the flanges of the studs and abut the flanges at the ends of the tracks and . These end cutouts are shown in . The fasteners are at these abutment areas. Similarly the inboard studs and and the center stud pass through interior cutouts of the webs and lips of the tracks and such that an exterior of the flanges of the studs and and of the center stud abut the interior of the flanges of the tracks and . These interior cutouts are also shown in . The fasteners are at these abutment areas. The five vertical studs and for example may be spaced 24 on center. The point at which the inboard studs and and the center stud pass through the tracks and is a hinge connection i.e. a single fastener allows for rotation . The studs of the V braced horizontal truss panel also serve to support drywall conduit wiring plumbing assemblies etc.

The V braced horizontal truss panel also contains a continuous V shaped bracing. This V Bracing is unique in its design and engineering. The two legs of the V brace are V brace studs and such as the stud shown in . The V brace stud is anchored to the side stud just below the tracks and and to the bottom track by the fasteners and passes through an interior cutout in the web of the inboard stud . This interior cutout is shown in . The web of the V brace stud abuts one flange of each of the studs and and the track . These abutment areas receive the fasteners as shown.

Similarly the V brace stud is anchored to the side stud just below the tracks and and to the bottom track by the fasteners and passes through the interior cutout in the inboard stud . The web of the V brace stud abuts one flange of each of the studs and and the track . These abutment areas receive the fasteners as shown.

The attachment of the V brace studs and to the studs and and to the track require that the ends of the V brace studs and be angles as shown in . These angled ends permit multiple fasteners to be used to anchor the V brace studs and to their corresponding side studs and .

The V brace studs and are positioned with their webs perpendicular to the webs of the studs and of the V braced horizontal truss panel . Also the V brace studs and run continuously from immediately below the tracks and through the inboard studs and to the apex of a V at substantially the middle of the bottom track . The connection at the apex of the V bracing is facilitated by an apex plate and additional fasteners which interconnect the V brace studs and and the center stud . The plate the bottom track and the stud and the V brace studs and are interconnected by the lower three fasteners as shown in . The inboard stud is also attached by fasteners to the top track and to the tracks and at the point where the inboard stud passes through the interior cutouts in the tracks and . The apex plate may be formed from a material such as 18 14 gauge cold roll steel.

The connections of the V brace studs and to the side studs and to the center stud and to the track are moment connections and improve the lateral structural performance of the V braced horizontal truss panel .

These connections facilitate the transfer of most of the lateral forces acting on the V braced horizontal truss panel to the structural column of the system discussed in further detail below .

The V braced horizontal truss panel also contains a track providing horizontal bracing. The track is located for example mid way in the V Brace formed by the V brace studs and . The track has the end cutouts to accommodate the inboard studs and has the interior cutout to accommodate the center stud and is anchored by fasteners to the inboard studs and and to the center stud . The track contributes to the lateral force structural performance of the V braced horizontal truss panel .

The V braced horizontal truss panel may contain other bracing and backing as necessary for building assemblies like drywall cabinets grab bars and the like. The V braced horizontal truss panel is used as both interior demising and partition structural walls and exterior structural walls. The V braced horizontal truss panel may also accommodate windows and pass throughs although the space is limited as can be seen from the drawings.

The V braced horizontal truss panel of has the same construction as the V braced horizontal truss panel of except that the V brace stud forming half of the V brace of is replaced by two studs and whose lips abut one another and the V brace stud forming the other half of the V brace of is replaced by two studs and that may or may not abut one another. Thus the studs and form a double V brace for the V braced horizontal truss panel of to provide extra strength.

As shown in the open horizontal truss panel has a top track and a bottom track . Inboard of the top track is a continuous horizontal brace comprised of back to back web to web tracks and referred to as double horizontal bracing which are anchored by fasteners such as bolts or screws to side studs and at the sides of the open horizontal truss panel . The top track and the bottom track are also anchored by fasteners to the side studs and . The area between the continuous horizontal brace formed by the tracks and and the top track contains vertical angled webbing made from studs. This braced area in acts as a structural truss for the open horizontal truss panel and supports and transfers forces exerted on the open horizontal truss panel to the structural columns discussed below and attached to each of the side studs and of the open horizontal truss panel .

The open horizontal truss panel also has two inboard studs and and a center stud anchored by fasteners to the top and bottom tracks and and to the tracks and . The side studs and pass through end cutouts in the ends of the web and of the lips of the tracks and such that the flanges of the studs and abut the flanges at the ends of the tracks and . These end cutouts are shown in . The fasteners are at these abutment areas. Similarly the inboard studs and and the center stud pass through interior cutouts of the webs and of the lips of the tracks and such that the flanges of the studs and and of the center stud abut the flanges of the tracks and . These interior cutouts are also shown in . The fasteners are at these abutment areas. The five vertical studs and for example may be spaced 24 on center. The point at which the inboard studs and and the center stud pass through the tracks and is a hinge connection i.e. a single fastener allows for rotation . The studs of the open horizontal truss panel also serve to support drywall conduit wiring plumbing assemblies etc.

The open horizontal truss panel also contains a track performing horizontal bracing. The track is located for example mid way between the tracks and . The horizontal bracing track includes the end cutouts through which the side studs and pass has three interior cutouts through which the inboard studs and and the center stud pass and is anchored by fasteners to the side studs and to the inboard studs and and to the center stud . The flanges of the studs and abut the flanges of the track . The fasteners are applied to these abutment areas. The open horizontal truss panel is engineered to handle vertical local forces.

The open horizontal truss panel is designed to accommodate windows doors and pass throughs. The open horizontal truss panel for example may be 20 wide or less. illustrate open horizontal truss panels with one or more openings for windows doors and pass throughs. illustrates typical chase openings through which MEP assemblies may be passed. These chase holes may be formed in the V braced horizontal truss panels and as well. illustrates several open horizontal truss panels with openings for doors.

The open horizontal truss panel may contain other bracing and backing as necessary for building assemblies like windows doors pass throughs drywall cabinets grab bars and the like. The open horizontal truss panel is used as both interior demising and partition structural walls and exterior structural walls.

The horizontal truss panels described above are tall enough to accommodate the floor to ceiling areas of buildings and to accommodate attachment of trusses such as a truss shown in . The truss is attached to the truss attachment area and includes a top stud and a bottom stud interconnected by an angled webbing made from studs such that the angled webbing is attached to the top and bottom studs and by the fasteners . The truss is attached to the truss attachment area of a horizontal truss panel by use of truss stud hangars and the fasteners . Although the horizontal truss panel is shown as the V braced horizontal truss panel the horizontal truss panel can be any of the horizontal truss panels described herein. The truss stud hangars are discussed more fully below in connection with .

The truss is also shown in . Trusses used in UTCS are made from the studs . These trusses have the top and bottom studs and and the internal angled webbing . The trusses do not have side or end webbing connecting their top and bottom chords and . The truss may be formed from light gauge steel such as 18 to 14 gauge steel. The gauge and length of the truss varies depending on application and width of floor span.

One or more bolts are suitably attached such as by welding or casting to the top plate . The bolts extend away from the top plate at right angles. Each end of the bottom plate has a hole there through. Accordingly a first structural column can be stacked vertically on a second structural column such that the bolts of the top plate of the second structural column pass through the holes of the bottom plate of the first structural column . Nuts may then be applied to the bolts of the top plate of the second structural column and tightened to fasten the first and second structural columns vertically to one another.

The top and bottom plates and are slightly wider than the track used for the horizontal truss panel and vary in thickness depending on building height and code requirements. The through bolting provided by the bolts and holes permit the structural columns to be connected to one another vertically and to other assemblies within a building roof foundations garages etc. .

The structural columns are connected to horizontal truss panels by way of stud sections of the stud . The stud sections are welded or otherwise suitably fastened to the top and bottom of the structural column . A stud section is fastened by weld or suitable fastener at about the middle of the structural column such that its web faces outwardly. This stud section is a hold off to keep the studs and of the horizontal truss panels from deflecting. Unification plates such as may or may not be used at this location.

The material of the structural column for example is cold rolled steel. The structural column may be hollow and have a wall thickness that varies depending on application and code. The material of the plates and and for the truss hangars and for example may be 18 14 gauge cold roll steel.

In a UTCS structure a section or length of wall is assembled by attaching a number depending on wall length of horizontal truss panels together using the structural column assemblies . The open horizontal truss panels are used as a wall section s in buildings where there are larger openings like windows doors and pass throughs. The V braced horizontal truss panels are used as wall section s generally throughout the rest of the structure so as to provide dense lateral support of the structure. shows a horizontal truss panel wall line having open and V braced horizontal truss panels and in a UTCS wall line.

As indicated above the truss is attached to the horizontal truss panel by way of the truss stud hangars and the fasteners located at the inboard studs and and the center stud . The truss stud hangar is shown in and includes a stud insertion projection to be received within the top stud of the truss as illustrated in and when inverted 180 degrees as illustrated in within the bottom stud of the truss . The truss stud hanger also includes L shaped flanges used to fasten the truss stud hangers to the top track and inverted to the horizontal bracing and of the horizontal truss panels.

The trusses are connected to the horizontal truss panels by inserting the end of the top stud of the truss into the insertion projection and fastening by fasteners and connecting by fasteners the L shaped flanges to the web and flange of the top track and by connecting by fastener a projection tab of the truss hangar to the top flange of the stud . The bottom stud of the truss is connected by inverting the truss stud hanger by 180 degrees inserting the end of the bottom stud of the truss into the insertion projection and fastening by fasteners connecting by fasteners the L shaped flanges to the web of the tracks and and by connecting by fastener the projection tab to the bottom flange of the stud .

A truss is also attached at each of the structural columns by way of an insertion projection on the unification plate . The end of the top stud of the truss is inserted over the insertion projection of the unification plate and fastened with fasteners to the web of the stud . The projection tab is fastened by a fastener to the top flange of the stud . The bottom stud of the truss is connected by way of insertion of the end of the stud over the insertion projection of an unification plate that is rotated 180 degrees. Fasteners are used to connect the insertion projection to the web of the stud . The projection tab is attached by way of a fastener to the bottom flange of the stud .

Attaching the trusses to the horizontal truss panels in this manner incorporates the truss into the horizontal truss panels eliminating the hinge point that exists where a wall assembly sits on a floor or where a ceiling assembly sits on top of a wall. This connection unifies the trusses and horizontal truss panels in effect enabling the entire wall and floor system to act together as a truss. This configuration facilitates the transfer of forces on the floor ceiling and horizontal truss panels to their attached structural column assemblies . Accordingly vertical and lateral forces are not transferred vertically horizontal truss panel to horizontal truss panel. When subflooring and drywall are incorporated into the building the entire system acts as a diaphragm. 

The V braced horizontal truss panels dampen and transfer the lateral forces acting on the building to the redundant structural column assemblies in the structure. This transfer of forces is illustrated in . The blow up portion of also illustrates that the panels do not bear on each other vertically and that the forces arrows are not transferred vertically from one panel to the other. Rather the vertical and lateral forces are transferred laterally to the structural column assemblies . This type of load transfer is facilitated by the unique design and assembly of the system. Both the horizontal truss panels and the trusses act as a unified truss system.

UTCS may employ horizontal truss panels of varying widths from 20 to 2 the most common being V braced horizontal truss panels measuring 8 and 4 . These panels lead to a significant redundancy of the structural column assemblies within the structure. Each open horizontal truss panel acts to support and mitigate only those vertical local forces proximate to their attached structural column assemblies . The V braced horizontal truss panels act to support vertical local forces as well as lateral forces acting on the structure. Because of the unique manner in which the horizontal truss panels transfer vertical and lateral forces and the redundancy of the structural column assemblies in the system there in no need to configure panels differently from floor to floor. Only the width and gauge of the tracks the studs and V brace vary depending on building height and code requirements.

Interior non structural partition walls that separate spaces within a UTCS building are constructed from light gauge steel typically 24 28 gauge and are typical in Type I and Type II steel frame construction.

UTCS is extremely efficient in managing vertical and lateral forces on a building. With UTCS the need to build a bearing wall structure or heavy structural core is eliminated vastly reducing costs over traditional construction practices. UTCS saves time as well because the structure of a building is erected from a limited number of pre assembled panels. This also dramatically reduces the cost of engineering the structure of buildings.

UTCS is unique and innovative. It can be built on nearly any foundation system including slabs structured parking retail and commercial buildings. UTCS employs a framing technology that is based on a system built panelized approach to construction. UTCS uses panelized building technology and innovative engineering to significantly reduce the cost of design material and erection of a building. UTCS technology and engineering is a new structural system and method of assembling single and multistory buildings.

Certain modifications of the present invention have been discussed above. For example although the present invention is particularly useful for constructing and assembling buildings without relying on concrete and or structural steel framing heavy steel let in bracing and heavy steel and or concrete panels it can also be applied to buildings having concrete and or structural steel framing heavy steel let in bracing and heavy steel and or concrete panels. Other modifications will occur to those practicing in the art of the present invention.

The fully integrated method and system disclosed below provides an integrated platform for design manufacturing and construction of building structures. Furthermore the system disclosed herein also provides an active design functionality that assists in determining how other elements and building components such as rough ins finishes windows stairs elevators etc. relate to and are automatically sized and or located in relation to the structure of a building. The automation and coordination provided by the system enables greater design efficiency better overall coordination and time and cost savings on architecture structural engineering mechanical electrical and plumbing MEP engineering manufacturing and construction.

The system also includes a database that stores structural details for various standardized structural components . For example the database includes records that provide the definition of the trusses the truss components and other standardized structural components discussed above in . Furthermore these records may also include other characteristics of these standardized structural components such as their dimensions lateral and vertical load bearing capacities shear capacities the identification of studs that attach to the particular panels etc. While system illustrates the database as being separate from the CAD software module in one implementation the database may be integrated with the CAD software module . Alternatively the database may be accessible to the CAD software module via a plug in to the CAD software module that is designed to access the database . Such an implementation allows the database to be located remotely on a database server accessible to a large number of users of different CAD software modules.

The system includes a geometric grid module that uses the design file and the standardized structural components as its input. The grid module may be configured to reside in the CAD software module as an add in. A designer generating a building design using the CAD software module may select to activate the grid module . Alternatively the grid module may be configured to be automatically activated when the CAD software module is active. The grid module generates a geometric grid based on the one or more of the standardized structural panel walls wherein the grid identifies the coordinates for each of the standardized structural panel walls . In one alternative implementation the geometric grid generated buy the grid module exists in each of x y and z planes. Yet alternatively the geometric grid may be set up as a network of multiple grids at various angles to account for the angles typical in building designs. The geometric grid also allows the activation of several grids at various angles to one another to allow for the design of angled buildings where active grids snap the standardized structural components to precise grid coordinates.

Subsequently the grid module automatically positions one or more of the standardized structural panel walls along grid lines such that the standardized structural panel walls end substantially close to the grid line intersections. In this manner the locations and lengths of the standardized structural panel walls are aligned to the lines of the geometric grid.

Subsequently the system employs a mapping solutions module that analyzes the wall lines as mapped to the geometric grid using structural performance and other data associated with standardized structural components to determine the position direction etc. of the standardized structural components along the grid lines. In one implementation the standardized structural components are mapped to the grid coordinates at predetermined distance intervals. For example the standardized structural components are mapped to the grid at interval of two feet. The selection of the predetermined distance interval may be based on a minimum denominator size of the standardized structural components .

The mapping solution module may first map the standardized structural components used at part of the floor structure such as trusses along the grid lines. Example of such trusses used as part of the floor structure include truss disclosed in and discussed above. Once the mapping solution module has established the location and direction of trusses the mapping solution module determines location and selection of standardized structural components that are used as wall panels. Examples of such wall panels include the V braced horizontal truss panel disclosed in the open horizontal truss panel disclosed in etc. The mapping solutions module calculates an efficient layout of such wall panels by analyzing the location of openings in the walls column elements such as the structural column etc. For example the mapping solution module analyzes the load bearing capacity the shear capacity etc. of the structural columns together with such performance capacities of various wall panels to ensure that the resulting structure accommodates the design for wall openings etc. and also meets construction code. Specifically the mapping module may determine the selection of wall panels to maximize efficiency to minimize cost etc.

In one implementation the system is also configured to change the selection and layout of the standardized structural components based on one or more changes to the architectural drawing of the building. For example if a window opening is moved from one wall to another wall or from one location in a wall to another location the selection and placement of the trusses wall truss panels etc. are also changed. Yet alternatively the system also allows an engineer to make localized changes to the structure and flows the effect of such changes to the remainder of the building. For example if the seismic code in a particular jurisdiction requires a particular configuration of panels along a wall line of a building an engineer is able to make the required change. In such as case the system automatically analyzes the remaining structure to ensure the compliance of the entire building with codes structural soundness etc.

The system also includes an output module that allows a user to generate various outputs based on the results generated by the mapping solutions module . While system illustrates the output module as a separate module in an alternative implementation such an output module may be part of system setup. For example a user may select one or more of the outputs and or functionalities at the time of setting up the system and the output module generates the necessary output. For the system illustrated in the output module generates outputs .

Specifically the output module is configured to generate a structural component list including unique identification for each of various structural components for the each of the various walls in the building. Thus for example the structural component list may include a listing of fastening screws bolts studs etc. required for the building structure. In one implementation the output module also generates quick response QR codes for the various structural components. Such QR codes may be used to uniquely identify a particular structural component or a particular type of structural component. For example a QR code is provided for uniquely identifying a particular unification plate that is used to attach a structural panel to a horizontal truss panel. Yet alternatively each of the QR codes is associated with other information identifying the structural component such as the location of the structural component in the building structure the price of the structural component structural characteristics of the structural component etc.

The output module may also be configured to generate structural panel names for various structural components of the building structure. For example each particular column of the building structure is assigned a structural panel name that identifies that particular column and provide various information about the column such as the column thickness column size height column face configuration etc. Similarly a structural panel name may identify a particular panel the panel type panel distance from corners on various axes column offset from an end etc. Further discussion of structural panel names is provided below in .

Furthermore the output module may also be configured to generate pages providing information about various structural components of a building structure. Such pages may be configured as web pages with URLs that may be activated via a QE code. For example when a user scans one of the QR codes using a QR code scanner the user may be provided the web page containing information about that particular client. Thus for example if a QR code is provided on a component that is already installed on a building structure scanning that QR code in the field allows a user to get further information about that structural component. Additionally the pages are also dynamically updated with information such as the location of the structural component installation status of the structural component etc. In one implementation one or more applications provided on a user device used to scan the QR code can also update the information on the pages .

Furthermore the output module may also be configured to generate three dimensional models of the building structure. In one implementation such 3 D models are also dynamically updated such that as the construction of the building progresses the 3 D model is also updated. Furthermore the 3 D models may also identify various structural components of the building structure. In one implementation the output module also generates output files for project engineering review and approval. For example such output files may includes detailed three dimensional drawings of the building structure various stress analysis reports data required to be submitted for compliance requirements with various building codes etc. A user may provide a feedback based on the review and approval output in which case the user input is incorporated in generating a different solution for the building structure.

In one implementation the output module is also configured to generate a bill of material using information about various structural components of a building structure. Such bill if material may be in the form of a spreadsheet that can be further processed by users. Alternatively the bill of material output may be in the form of a file that can be directly imported by an accounting or other financial software for further processing. Yet alternatively the output module may also generate purchase orders for the parts that are outsourced. Again such purchase order output may be in the form that can be further processed by an accounting or financial software.

Yet alternatively the output module also generates machine control files or macro files that can be used to control various machines used to manufacture structural components and standardized structural components. For example the macro files generated by the output module may be used to control various light gauge roll forming machines that produce track and stud elements for the building structure. Such macro files may be loaded into the manufacturing machines manually or automatically. Additionally such macro files may also include instructions to the manufacturing machines to generate labels for manufactured parts and standardized structural components. Further discussion of the use of the macro files is provided below in . The output module also generates shop drawings and specifications that can be used by the project design team engineers and building department. For example a building inspector may use the shop drawings generated by the output module to provide approval for a building design etc.

In the implementation illustrated in architectural software communicates with the software module with a building plan and floor plan layout. The building plan and floor plan layout may be in a standard format such as DWG file DXF file etc. The software module includes a wall positioning module that assigns floor levels and heights to each of the walls from the architectural design. Specifically the wall positioning module generates a geometric grid based on the architectural diagram and maps various walls from the architectural diagram to the geometric grid. For example if the architectural diagram includes a room that is 10 9.5 the wall positioning module generates a geometric grid of 10 10 or 10 8 depending on the architects final determination and maps the walls of the room to the grid.

The software module also includes a floor direction module that determines the direction of the floors. Specifically floor structure in a building may be determined by an engineer of record based on loading live or dead load where floor loads are carried from wall to wall by the trusses. Sometimes it may be clear as to which direction to place the floor for example in the north south N S direction in the east west E W direction etc. for carrying the least load and therefore to use less reduced cost structure. The system disclosed herein automatically determines the direction of least loading and places the floor in one of the E W N S or other direction. Where possible the floor is not loaded against exterior walls as well automatically. An opening analysis module analyzes the openings in the walls that are fit along the geometric grid. For example the opening analysis module may analyze doors windows pass throughs etc. in a particular wall to determine the positioning of various standardized structural components that would be included in that particular wall.

Once the wall size the floor directions the openings and other characteristics of a wall are determined a standardized structural panel fitting module determines the standardized structural components that are to be used for that particular wall. Thus for example the fitting module may determine that two V based horizontal truss panels such as those disclosed in together with an open horizontal truss panel such as those disclosed in may be used in a given wall. The fitting module may use a standardized structural panel database that stores data structures about each of various standardized structural components. For example each data structure in such database may provide information about the dimensions weight stress capacities adjoining panels etc. of a standardized structural panel. The module selects which standardized structural panel fits a particular module based on length of the wall. In one implementation the fitting module analyzes each of the walls in 2 increments to see what standardized structural components are best fits for that particular wall. However in an alternative implementation other size of increments may also be used.

The fitting module also determines where to add structural columns along the grid lines of the geometric grid. In determining the structural columns the fitting module analyzes the required load bearing capacity and other characteristics of the building. Once the fitting module has fit various standardized structural components and structural columns to the grid lines various output data is generated based on the solution. For example a manufacturing data generation module generates data about structural components that are to be outsourced and the specification thereof data about structural components to be manufactured macro files for each of the structural component to be manufactured etc. Such macro files may be used by production machines to generate the final manufactured components. For example a macro file may be generated for a cold roll former interface that instructs a cold roll former machine where to punch holes where to cut the edges for cold rolled panels etc. Similarly other macro files may be used by a welder interface that can be used by a robotic welder to determine where to generate a welding joint and what kind of welding joint is appropriate. Such macro files allows automation of the process of manufacturing and putting together components used in a building construction .

The software module generates detailed three dimensional drawings with specifications such as stress bearing capacities of each wall as a combination of standardized structural components and structural columns noise mitigation specifications etc. Such drawings with specifications may be submitted to a review and approval processor such as a local building approval board an engineer etc. for further review the processor may approve the drawings or recommend changes via the architectural software in which case the software module generates a new set of drawings with specifications for revised approval.

Once the designs are approved by the review and approval processor the architectural software uses the input from the software module to generate plans and specifications for the building construction engineers. Such plans and specifications may include for example the schedule specifying the order in which the building construction is to proceed instructions about how specific components are to be installed etc. for the actual building construction .

An operation positions various walls from the architectural design onto the grid lines. Specifically only those walls that fit the geometric grid lines to their intersections are positioned along the grid lines. Thus for example if a wall was curved wall or its dimension was less than 2 such a wall may not be positioned along a grid line. In such an example if the architect wants to use a curved or an angled wall or other walls that are not in 2 increments such curved walls etc. are determined to be non standardized walls. In this case such walls do not map or reside on the grid lines. Specifically non load bearing walls also may not map to the grid lines. An example of such fitting the architectural walls to the grid lines is provided in further detail below in .

Subsequently an operation positions standardized components along the walls that are positioned along the grid lines. Specifically given that grid lines have a granularity of 2 2 standardized components fit this walls without requiring any custom manufactured components. Thus for example if a 6 wall was positioned along a grid line a horizontal panel of 4 and another horizontal panel of 2 may be used to create the 6 wall. Furthermore another operation analyzes the location of windows and other openings in the walls to determine if open horizontal panels such as those disclosed in are required. The selection of the standardized structural components also takes into account the fact that various structural columns are to be added to the structure. Specifically an operation adds selects and adds such structural components to the structure. An example of such as structural panel is one disclosed in above.

Once all the structural components such as standardized panels trusses and columns are mapped to the architectural design walls an operation analyzes the mapped solution. In one implementation the solution is analyzed with respect to compliance of the resulting structure with various codes its load bearing capacity etc. The analyzing operation may generate output reports including warnings violations etc. that will be used by inspectors engineers etc. to recommend change to the resulting structure if necessary. Furthermore an operation generates various outputs that can be used in automating the manufacturing and construction of the building structure. If there are any changes necessary one or more operations of the flowchart may be repeated as necessary.

In the example structural column name CB represents column thickness 3XX represents column size 4032 represents height of the column in 1 32 increments AOJO represents the face configuration of the column 3033 represents a size of a connected panel to the column the first A3030 represents the type of an end plate attached to the top of the column and the second A3030 represents the type of an end plate attached to the bottom of the column.

Subsequently an operation attaches information related to a structural component to the QR code. Thus for example in a database each of the QR code may be attached to one or more fields that provide information about the structural component that is related to that QR code. Such structural component information may include the dimensions of the structural component the location of the structural component in a building structure cost information of that structural component etc. Subsequently the QR code is physically attached to the structural component. Thus for example a QR code for a truss is printed and attached to that particular truss after it is manufactured.

Once a structural component is provided with a QR code a determining operation determines if that QR code has been scanned. For example a specialized QR code scanning device a generic QR code scanning device such as a smartphone etc. may be used to scan the QR code. If the QR code has been scanned control is transferred to another determining operation that determines if there are any changes to the information related to the structural component. For example a QR code scanning device may be provided with a capability to update the status of the structural component in the building construction process to update the location of the structural component in the building etc. If the determining operation determines that such update of information is received an updating operation updates the structural component information. Such updating may involve for example updating of various fields in a database that are related to the particular structural component. As an example a scanning device may scan a QR code on a truss that is already installed on the building structure and update the status of that truss to installed. In this manner the system disclosed herein provides automatic tracking and updating of deployment of various structural components including the standardized structural components used in a building construction.

In this example at operation the light gauge roll machine generates the cold rolled truss chord and cuts it at appropriate length angle etc. In one implementation the macro file is also provided information about the QR code that is to be assigned to the manufactured part. In such an implementation an operation generates a QR code that is to be used to label the manufactured truss chord. Furthermore an operation also communicates the specification for component to a welding machine that is used to generate the assembled component such as a truss that uses the cold rolled truss to be combined with various cold rolled braces etc. The welding machine may use the component specification to automatically generate the welding joints between the various truss components.

Additionally an operation generates a list of parts for which the manufacturing in outsourced. Specifically operation may also generate a purchase order with the detailed specification about the part. As an example specification for the unification plates maybe generated by the operation and sent to an outside manufacturer in the form of a purchase order. In one implementation of the system disclosed herein an operation assembles standardized structural components such as columns trusses panels etc. using one or more components that are manufactured and or outsourced. For example an automatic assembly machine may be provided a macro file with instructions for assembling the component parts to generate the standardized structural component. Additionally once the standardized structural component is assembled a labeling operation labels it with a QR code or other identification code. For example each of the trusses may be labeled with a QR code that uniquely identifies that truss. Alternatively all trusses of the same type are labeled with the same QR code. Subsequently at an operation the standardized structural components are used to erect the building structure.

The I O section is connected to one or more user interface devices e.g. a keyboard and a display unit a disk storage unit and a disk drive unit . Generally in contemporary systems the disk drive unit is a DVD CD ROM drive unit capable of reading the DVD CD ROM medium which typically contains programs and data . Computer program products containing mechanisms to effectuate the systems and methods in accordance with the described technology may reside in the memory section on a disk storage unit or on the DVD CD ROM medium of such a system or external storage devices made available via a cloud computing architecture with such computer program products including one or more database management products web server products application server products and or other additional software components. Alternatively a disk drive unit may be replaced or supplemented by a floppy drive unit a tape drive unit or other storage medium drive unit. The network adapter is capable of connecting the computer system to a network via the network link through which the computer system can receive instructions and data embodied in a carrier wave. Examples of such systems include Intel and PowerPC systems offered by Apple Computer Inc. personal computers offered by Dell Corporation and by other manufacturers of Intel compatible personal computers AMD based computing systems and other systems running a Windows based UNIX based or other operating system. It should be understood that computing systems may also embody devices such as Personal Digital Assistants PDAs mobile phones smart phones gaming consoles set top boxes tablets or slates e.g. iPads etc.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer system is connected by wired connection or wirelessly to a local network through the network interface or adapter which is one type of communications device. When used in a WAN networking environment the computer system typically includes a modem a network adapter or any other type of communications device for establishing communications over the wide area network. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer system or portions thereof may be stored in a remote memory storage device. It is appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of and communications devices for establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

Further the plurality of internal and external databases data stores source database and or data cache on the cloud server are stored as memory or other storage systems such as disk storage unit or DVD CD ROM medium and or other external storage device made available and accessed via a cloud computing architecture. Still further some or all of the operations for the system disclosed herein may be performed by the processor . In addition one or more functionalities of the system disclosed herein may be generated by the processor and a user may interact with these GUIs using one or more user interface devices e.g. a keyboard and a display unit with some of the data in use directly coming from third party websites and other online sources and data stores via methods including but not limited to web services calls and interfaces without explicit user input.

A server hosts the system for using the standardized structural components disclosed herein. In an alternate implementation the server also hosts a website or an application that users visit to access the system for using the standardized structural components. Server may be one single server or a plurality of servers with each such server being a physical server or a virtual machine or a collection of both physical servers and virtual machines. Alternatively a cloud hosts one or more components of the system for using the standardized structural components. The user devices the server the cloud as well as other resources connected to the communications network access one or more of servers for getting access to one or more websites applications web service interfaces etc. that are used in the system for using the standardized structural components. In one implementation the server also hosts a search engine that is used by the system for accessing the system for using the standardized structural components and to select one or more services used in the system for using the standardized structural components.

A displaying operation displays the three dimensional grid to a user. For example the displaying operation displays the grid using a GUI application on a computer screen. In one implementation the GUI application may also be available remotely via the Internet or other network. The GUI application may access data about the three dimensional grid from a local server from a cloud server from a dedicated remote server etc.

Subsequently an operation provides access to the three dimensional grid one or more vendors contractors suppliers purchasers etc. In one implementation the displaying operation displays different amount of information to a user based on the access level authorization of the user. Thus for example an architecture working with the integrated construction portal may have all access to view the three dimensional grid including making changes to the three dimensional grid. On the other hand a contractor working on the roofing may have access to only the floors in the three dimensional grid that require roofing. Similarly a door provider will only have access to sections of the grid that require door etc. Yet alternatively access to the grid may also be provided based on other criteria such as customer of a section of the building etc. For example if a client is purchasing the second floor of the building and the client is interested in getting its own contractors for work on the second floor the client may be provided access to the second floor of the grid for various evaluation purposes pricing purposes etc.

Subsequently an operation receives information from the vendor supplier etc. about placement of one or more additional components to the three dimensional grid. For example such an additional component may be a non structural component to be supplied by a given vendor that is given access to the three dimensional grid. The vendor may select the placement of such component using a drop down menu a drag and drop menu etc. For example a roofing supplier may select a particular roofing option from a drop down menu select a section of the roof on the three dimensional grid and place the selected roofing option at the selected location.

An evaluation operation evaluates if the component is compatible with the building requirements specifications codes etc. For example if a roofing vendor associates a roofing component that is so heavy that it would not work with the building or that it is not in compliance with the local building codes regulations etc. the flowchart provides appropriate message to the supplier and request to submit at revised roofing component.

A revising operation revises the three dimensional grid using the newly added component by the vendor. Thus upon receiving the information about the roofing component and its placement the roofing component may be attached to the location and various specifications of the selected roofing component may be associated with the various structural components that are located related to the selected roofing location. For example if a particular standardized column with a given load bearing capacity were associated with the selected location for the roofing component the weight of the roof as it will be borne by the particular standardized column is associated to that particular standardized column. Similarly if the vendor for a window selects and places a window to a particular three dimensional location the specification for that window would be associated with the panels that are attached to that particular window.

Subsequently a receiving operation receives the pricing information from the vendor supplier etc. For example a supplier of HVAC equipment that has associated one or more HVAC equipment with the three dimensional grid may also associate the pricing information about the HVAC equipment in a file with the HVAC equipment specification so that the three dimensional grid extracts such pricing information from the file. In one implementation when a vendor selects a component to be attached using a drop down menu the GUI selects the entire file about that component including the specifications the pricing etc. As a result when the vendor associates that component to the three dimensional grid all the specifications of that component together with the pricing is also associated with the three dimensional grid.

Subsequently an operation generates a revised pricing estimate for the building taking into consideration the pricing for all structural components all non structural components etc. A communicating operation may communicate the revised pricing information to an architect a developer etc. If an operation determines that one or more changes are made to the three dimensional grid or that any other components are added thereto one or more of the operations of the flowchart are initiated.

The operations disclosed in allows a building architect or developer to collaborate with multiple parties to design or redesign a building to get pricing estimates for various iterations of building designs etc. For example using the operations disclosed in a builder may invite a number of vendors to provide bids for pricing various components evaluate whether a component supplied by a vendor will work with the structural components of the buildings etc. After receiving the bid the specification the pricing etc. the builder may generate a revised pricing estimate and compare that to other pricing estimates. Such iterative process allows a builder to make informed decisions about the building in a dynamic and more cost effective manner.

The user interface includes a display window illustrating a three dimensional grid of a building. In one implementation the user interface allows a user to select the three dimensional grid and view it from different angles. Yet alternatively the user is able to zoom into specific parts of the building and review the details of various structural components of the building. For example a user can select a wall on the second floor of the building and review the associated specifications regarding various panels trusses etc. used in that particular wall.

The user display also includes a drop down menu that can be used for various functions. For example a user can select one of the options from the drop down menu to activate a menu of options . Thus a roofing contractor may select an option from the drop down menu to activate the menu of options . Furthermore the contractor can select one of the options from the menu of options to select a roofing component that can be positioned on the three dimensional grid . In response to such a positioning of the roofing component various specifications pricing etc. of the roofing component are associated with the particular location on the three dimensional grid . Once the compatibility of the roofing component is verified the integrated construction portal updates various specifications pricing etc. of the three dimensional grid . As illustrated in users such as a contractor and or a subcontractor a manufacturer a supplier a vendor etc. may use the user display to participate in an interactive and dynamic manner.

In one implementation an administrator of the integrated construction portal gives access to the three dimensional grid to a contractor A . For example if the contractor A is a contractor for HVAC the access provided to the contractor A is limited to the viewing of components of the three dimensional grid that are useful in determining the placement of the HVAC equipment. The contractor A may provide specification for the HVAC equipment the pricing for the HVAC equipment the installation scheduling for the HVAC equipment etc. to the integrated construction portal . For example the contractor A may provide such information to the integrated construction portal using a drop down menu or other menu options from a user display. A number of other users such as a manufacturer a vendor a subcontractor a supplier engineers a general contractor etc. may also interact with the three dimensional grid in a dynamic manner.

In an alternative implementation the integrated portal system disclosed herein provides generating a three dimensional construction grid based on a data file generated by an architectural software wherein the three dimensional grid includes three dimensional position information of various structural building components displaying the three dimensional construction grid using a display device of a computing device receiving information of various non structural building components the information including location of the non structural building components on the three dimensional grid associating the non structural building components to one or more of the structural components of the three dimensional grid and automatically generating a plurality of specifications for the non structural building components.

Alternatively the integrated system disclosed herein provides selecting one of the non structural building components from a menu and receiving instruction for placement of the selected non structural building component on the three dimensional grid. Yet alternatively the integrated system disclosed herein generates a revised three dimensional construction grid including the non structural building components. In one implementation the non structural building components includes at least one of 1 a door component 2 a window component 3 an HVAC component 4 a plumbing component 5 an electrical component 6 an interior non structural wall 7 an exterior finishing component 8 a flooring component 9 a roofing component 10 a fixture etc. The specifications for such non structural components may include for example weight of the component location of the component size of the component material type of the component the thermal capacity of the component etc.

An implementation of the method further comprises providing access to the three dimensional construction grid to vendors of the non structural building components wherein receiving the information of the non structural building components further comprises receiving the information of the non structural building components from the vendors. Yet alternatively the integrated portal system further comprises generating pricing information of the various structural building components generating a first pricing estimate for a building based on the three dimensional construction grid and the pricing information of the various structural building components receiving pricing information of the non structural building components from the vendors and generating a second pricing estimate based on the first pricing estimate and the pricing information of the non structural building components from the vendors. Yet alternatively the method disclosed herein further comprises receiving the data file generated by an architectural software from an architect and communicating the second pricing estimate to the architect.

Accordingly the description of the present invention is to be construed as illustrative only and is for the purpose of teaching those skilled in the art the best mode of carrying out the invention. The details may be varied substantially without departing from the spirit of the invention and the exclusive use of all modifications which are within the scope of the appended claims is reserved.

