---

title: Presenting content within a venue using client devices associated with users attending the venue
abstract: A venue management system receives location information from various client devices within a venue. The venue management system identifies content for presentation within the venue and maps portions of the identified content to different client devices based on the location information received from the client devices. For example, different pixels of an image are mapped to different client devices based on location information from the client devices. The venue management system then sends portions of the content to client devices mapped to the corresponding portions, and the client devices present their mapped portion of the identified content using display devices on the client devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09544618&OS=09544618&RS=09544618
owner: VenueNext, Inc.
number: 09544618
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150720
---
This invention relates generally to user interaction with a venue and more specifically to displaying images using multiple client devices in a venue.

Venues such as stadiums convention centers or amphitheaters frequently host events attended by large numbers of users. Oftentimes attendees to events hosted in a venue bring banners to show their passion and communicate their support to the participants of such events. For example attendees bring banners saying Go USA to cheer the USA national team in a soccer match. However these banners are small and the probability of participants in the event seeing these banners is low. Additionally banners brought by attendees are usually printed or hand drawn to a piece of paper or fabric and unable to be changed once printed.

While many venues include display devices for presenting information to individuals attending a venue the size of these display devices is limited and content presented by the display devices is controlled by administrators of the venue rather than individuals attending the venue. For example a stadium has one or more screens showing a score of a game as well as a live recording of the game. Accordingly the display devices included in a venue have limited effectiveness in allowing individuals attending the venue to express their sentiments towards participants in an event occurring at the venue.

A venue is a geographic location such as a geographic location associated with one or more structures. Examples of a venue include a stadium a convention center an arena a theater an amphitheater or any other suitable structure or location where people may gather for an event. In various embodiments users obtain a ticket to enter the venue and various events are performed at the venue.

To display content such as images or videos to individuals attending an event at a venue individuals participating in the event at the venue or individuals viewing a recording of the event at the venue a venue management system associated with the venue communicates portions of the content to client devices of the individuals attending the event. Hence different portions of the content are presented by display devices of client devices associated with different individuals attending the event. The venue management system associated with the venue maintains information associated with users attending the venue including location information within the venue associated with users attending the venue. For instance the venue management system receives location information received from a client device of a user attending the event and identifies a location within the venue corresponding to the received location information or receives an identifier of a seat assigned to the user associated with a client device.

The venue management system identifies content such as an image and maps portions of the content to various client devices within the venue based on the locations of the client devices within the venue. For example the venue management system maps portions of an image to different client devices within the venue based at least in part on the locations of the client devices within the venue. As an example a portion of the image is mapped to a subset of client devices having locations within a particular area of the venue while an additional portion of the image is mapped to an additional subset of client devices having locations within an additional area of the venue. The venue management system communicates the portions of the content to the client devices mapped to the different portions of the content. For example a portion of the image is a pixel of a specific color so the venue management system sends a message with the specific color to client devices mapped to the portion of the image. When a client device executing an application associated with the venue management system receives the message and the user interacts with the client device a display device of the client device presents the content identified by the message. Hence in the preceding example the display device of a client device executing the application associated with the venue management system presents the specific color.

The figures depict various embodiments for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles of described herein.

The venue is a geographic location such as a geographic location associated with one or more structures. Examples of a venue include a stadium a convention center an arena a theater an amphitheater or other suitable structure. One or more regions are included in the venue with each region corresponding to an area within the venue . For example different regions correspond to different sections of a stadium different aisles of a stadium or arena different rooms in a convention center or any other suitable area within the venue . In some embodiments an area within the venue is associated with multiple regions having different levels of precision. For example a specific seat in a venue is associated with a region identifying a section including the seat another region identifying an aisle within the section including the seat and an additional region identifying the specific seat. While shows an example venue including three regions A B C in other embodiments a venue may include any number of regions .

One or more vendors are included in the venue with each vendor providing products or services to users within the venue . Examples of vendors include restaurants food service providers beverage providers merchandise retailers or other suitable entities providing products or services. Different vendors may be associated with different regions of the venue. For example a vendor A is associated with a region A while a different vendor B is associated with a different region B. A vendor may be associated with multiple regions for example a vendor C is associated with a region B as well as with an additional region C. In some embodiments a vendor is associated with a region based on a distance between the vendor and the region . For example the vendor is associated with a region having a minimum distance from a location associated with the vendor . If a location associated with a vendor is within a region the vendor is associated with the region including the vendor s associated location.

Additionally one or more parking lots A B C are associated with the venue and identify physical locations for parking vehicles. Each parking lot includes one or more spaces each space for parking a vehicle. A price is associated with each parking lot specifying an amount of compensation a user provides to an entity associated with the venue for a space in the parking lot to be allocated for parking a vehicle associated with the user. Different parking lots may have different distances from the venue and prices associated with different parking lots may be inversely proportional to a distance between a parking lot and the venue . Each parking lot is also associated with a capacity specifying a maximum number of vehicles that may be parked in a parking lot . The capacity may be total number of spaces in the parking lot or may be a maximum number of vehicles. Information may be maintained by one or more devices included in a parking lot specifying a number of spaces in the parking lot in which vehicles are parked specifying a number of vehicles within a geographic area associated with the parking lot or any other suitable information. For example a device included in the parking lot increments a counter when a vehicle enters the geographic area associated with the parking lot or when a vehicle is parked in a space of the parking lot .

A client device is one or more computing devices capable of receiving user input as well as transmitting and or receiving data via the network . In one embodiment the client device is a conventional computer system such as a desktop computer or a laptop computer. Alternatively the client device may be a device having computer functionality such as a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile telephone a smartphone or another suitable device. A client device is configured to communicate with other devices via the network . In one embodiment the client device executes an application allowing a user of the client device to interact with the venue management system . For example the client device executes a browser application to enable interaction with the venue management system or with one or more third party system via the network . In another embodiment a client device interacts with the venue management system through an application programming interface API running on a native operating system of the client device such as IOS or ANDROID .

A display device included in a client device presents content items to a user of the client device . Examples of the display device include a liquid crystal display LCD an organic light emitting diode OLED display an active matrix liquid crystal display AMLCD or any other suitable device. Different client devices may have display devices with different characteristics. For example different client devices have display devices with different display areas different resolutions or differences in other characteristics.

One or more input devices included in a client device receive input from the user. Different input devices may be included in the client device . For example the client device includes a touch sensitive display for receiving input data commands or information from a user. Using a touch sensitive display allows the client device to combine the display device and an input device simplifying user interaction with presented content items. In other embodiments the client device may include a keyboard a trackpad a mouse or any other device capable of receiving input from a user. Additionally the client device may include multiple input devices in some embodiments. Inputs received via the input device may be processed by an application associated with the venue management system and executing on the client device to allow a client device user to exchange information with the venue management system .

Additionally a client device may include one or more position sensors which determine a physical location associated with the client device . For example a position sensor is a global positioning system GPS sensor that determines a location associated with the client device based on information obtained from GPS satellites communicating with the GPS sensor such as coordinates specifying a latitude and longitude of the location associated with the client device . As another example a position sensor determines a location associated with the client device based on intensities of signals received from one or more access points e.g. wireless access points by the client device . In the preceding example the position sensor determines a location associated with the client device based on signal intensity between the client device and one or more wireless access points and service set identifiers SSIDs or media access control MAC addresses of the wireless access points. However the client device may include any suitable type of position sensor . In various embodiments the client device may include multiple position sensors .

The network may comprise any combination of local area and or wide area networks using both wired and or wireless communication systems. In one embodiment the network uses standard communications technologies and or protocols. For example the network includes communication links using technologies such as Ethernet 802.11 worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX 3G 4G code division multiple access CDMA digital subscriber line DSL etc. Examples of networking protocols used for communicating via the network include multiprotocol label switching MPLS transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP hypertext transport protocol HTTP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP and file transfer protocol FTP . Data exchanged over the network may be represented using any suitable format such as hypertext markup language HTML or extensible markup language XML . In some embodiments all or some of the communication links of the network may be encrypted using any suitable technique or techniques.

One or more third party systems may be coupled to the network for communicating with one or more client devices or with the venue management system . In one embodiment a third party system is an application provider communicating information describing applications for execution by a client device or communicating data to client devices for use by an application executing on the client device . In other embodiments a third party system provides content or other information for presentation via a client device . For example a third party system provides content related to an event occurring at the venue to a client device for presentation to a user as an example the third party system provides video or audio data of a portion of an event occurring at the venue to a client device allowing a user associated with the client device to view the portion of the event from an alternative vantage point than the user s vantage point or to hear commentary about the portion of the event. As another example a third party system is a social networking system maintaining connections between various users and providing content for presentation to users based at least in part on the maintained connections. A third party system may also communicate information to the venue management system which subsequently communicates the information or a portion of the information to one or more client devices via the network .

Additionally one or more vendor systems are coupled to the venue management system via the network or through direct connections between the vendor systems and the vendor management system . A vendor system is associated with a vendor and receives orders for products or services from the venue management system and provides the products or services identified by the orders. Further a vendor system provides the venue management system with information describing fulfillment of orders by a vendor associated with the vendor system . For example the vendor system provides information to the venue management system specifying an estimated time to fulfill subsequently received or pending orders for products or services an average time in which previously received orders were fulfilled a number of unfulfilled orders received by the vendor system or other suitable information. Information provided from the vendor system to the vendor management system accounts for orders received via the vendor management system as well as orders received by the vendor associated with the vendor system from users visiting a location associated with the vendor .

Additionally a vendor system may provide information to the venue management system describing products or services sold by a vendor associated with the vendor system . For example the vendor system identifies a number of different products or services sold by the vendor or identifies an amount of revenue received by the vendor in exchange for different products or services. Information describing sold products or services may be communicated from the vendor system to the venue management system as the products or services are sold or may be communicated from the vendor system to the venue management system at periodic intervals. Additionally the venue management system may request information describing sales of products or services to a vendor system which provides the requested information to the venue management system in response to receiving the request.

The venue management system which is further described below in conjunction with receives content from one or more third party systems or from one or more client devices or generates content and provides content to users via an application associated with the venue management system and executing on client devices . Additionally the venue management system maintains information associated with one or more parking lots associated with a venue such as a number of spaces in a parking lot currently occupied a price associated with a the parking lot or a number of spaces in the parking lot that have been purchased as well as directions for navigating to a location associated with the parking lot . The venue management system may communicate certain information associated with a parking lot to one or more users such as the price associated with the parking lot or directions to the location associated with the parking lot . Associations between one or more vendors and regions of the venue are also included in the venue management system which also receives orders for products or services from one or more users and communicates the orders to one or more vendors for fulfillment.

Each user of the venue management system is associated with a user profile which is stored in the user profile store . A user profile includes declarative information about the user provided by the user and may also include information inferred by the venue management system from actions associated with the user or from other information. In one embodiment a user profile includes multiple data fields each describing one or more attributes of the corresponding user. Examples of information stored in a user profile include demographic information contact information preferences and location information. For example a user profile identifies a region of the venue associated with a user such as a region including a seat associated with a ticket to attend the venue associated with the user. A user profile may also store other information provided by the user for example image data or video data. Additionally a user profile in the user profile store may also maintain references to actions by the corresponding user performed on content presented by the venue management system or interactions between the corresponding user captured by one or more vendor systems and communicated to the venue management system . For example a user profile identifies prior orders for products or services the venue management system received from a user and communicated to one or more vendor systems .

In some embodiments a user profile includes a status associated with the user. The venue management system may provide different functionality to a user based on the user s status. For example the venue management system communicates certain types of messages to client devices associated with users having a specific type of status and does not communicate the certain types of messages to client devices associated with users that do not have the specific type of status. As another example the venue management system presents less advertisement content to users having specific statuses. The status may be based on a frequency with which the user is associated with tickets to attend the venue or an amount of money the venue management system has received from the user e.g. based on an amount the user has spent on tickets to attend the venue . Additionally a user may provide an amount of compensation to the venue management system for a specific status to be associated with the user. For example the user provides the venue management system with an amount of compensation per year or per month for the venue management system to associate a specific status with the user.

The content store stores objects that each represents various types of content received from one or more third party systems or generated by the venue management system . Examples of content represented by an object include video data associated with an event occurring at the venue image data associated with an event occurring at the venue audio data associated with an event occurring at the venue text data associated with an event occurring at the venue information associated with the venue or with the location of the venue or other suitable. Additionally content may be received from applications associated with a third party system and executing on client devices associated with users of the venue management system . In one embodiment objects in the content store represent single pieces of content or content items. 

The action log stores information describing actions performed by venue management system users internal to or external to the venue management system . For example actions performed by a user on a third party system that communicates information to the venue management system are stored in the action log along with information describing actions performed by the user through the venue management system . Examples of actions include ordering a product or service from a vendor included in the venue checking into the venue accessing content provided by the venue management system or provided by a third party system that communicates with the venue management system providing a review of a product service or vendor to the venue management system or to a third party system that communicates with the vendor management system providing a comment associated with the venue or with an event occurring at the venue to the venue management system or to a third party system that communicates with the venue management system . However any suitable action may be stored in the action log and associated with a user profile in the user profile store . Information in the action log may identify the user performing an action a type of the action a description of the action a time associated with the action or any other suitable information. In some embodiments data from the action log is used to infer interests or preferences of a user augmenting interests included in the user s user profile and allowing a more complete understanding of user preferences.

The action log may also store user actions taken on a third party system such as an external website and communicated to the venue management system . For example an e commerce website may recognize a user of the venue management system through a plug in enabling the e commerce website to identify the venue management system user. Because users of the venue management system are uniquely identifiable third party systems may communicate information about a user s actions outside of the venue management system to the venue management system for association with the user. Hence the action log may record information about actions users perform on a third party system such as purchases made comments on content or other information a user authorizes a third party system to communicate to the vendor management system .

The location store includes physical locations associated with various regions of the venue . In various embodiments the location store includes a region identifier associated with each region and information identifying a geographic area associated with the region identifier. Any suitable information may identify the geographic area associated with a region identifier. Example information identifying a geographic area of a region include physical coordinates specifying boundaries of a region and an identifier of a portion of the venue including the region . Additionally the location store includes data associating vendors with one or more regions of the venue . A vendor identifier uniquely associated with a vendor is associated with a region identifier with the association stored in the location store . Multiple vendors may be associated with a region of the venue .

In some embodiments the location store also associates location information with users of the venue management system . A client device communicates location information to the venue management system which may store the location information in the location store or in the user profile store in association with the user. Based on the received information the venue management system may determine a region of the venue including the location information and associate the region identifier of the determined region with a user profile corresponding to the user. If the venue management system receives modified location information from the client device the venue management system may modify the determined region if a different region includes the modified location information. Alternatively one or more sensors included in the venue identify a client device and determine a location associated with the client device . Based on the determined location the venue management system identifies a region including the client device and stores a region identifier of the region in association with a user identifier of a user associated with the client device . In various embodiments information identifying a location associated with the client device e.g. latitude and longitude is also stored in the location store in association with an identifier associated with the user associated with the client device . Additionally the venue management system may assign a location to a user and store the assigned location in association with the user in the location store . For example when a user purchases a ticket to enter the venue the ticket is associated with a location assigned to the user and the location store includes information associating the location assigned to the user from the ticket with an identifier associated with the user.

The parking management module includes information identifying parking lots associated with the venue and describing various parking lots . Each parking lot is associated with a lot identifier that uniquely identifies a parking lot . Characteristics of a parking lot are stored in the parking management module in association with a lot identifier corresponding to the parking lot . Characteristics of a parking lot include a capacity for the parking lot that specifies a maximum number of vehicles capable of being parked in the parking lot and a price associated with the parking lot for allocating a space in the parking lot to a vehicle. Additional characteristics of a parking lot include one or more locations associated with the parking lot e.g. entrances and directions to the location associated with the parking lot . Directions from one or more locations associated with the parking lot to the venue may also be maintained by the parking management module .

Certain characteristics of a parking lot are modified based on information is received by the venue management system . As users purchase spaces in a parking lot the parking management module maintains a number of purchased spaces associated with the parking lot . Additionally when a vehicle enters a parking lot information is communicated from the parking lot to the venue management system where the parking management module maintains a number of vehicles currently occupying the parking lot or a number of currently occupied spaces in the parking lot . In some embodiments a ticket is scanned or other information is captured by a device e.g. scanner card reader terminal when a vehicle enters the parking lot the device communicates an indication that information was captured to the venue management system causing the parking management module to increment a number of spaces in the parking lot currently associated with vehicles or to increment a number of currently occupied spaces in the parking lot . Thus the parking management module maintains a number of spaces in a parking lot that are currently occupied by vehicles and modifies the number of currently occupied spaces as vehicles are parked in the parking lot.

Based on a number of spaces currently associated with vehicles in various parking lots the parking management module may communicate messages to client devices identifying one or more of the parking lots . In one embodiment the parking management module selects a parking lot based on a difference between a number of previously purchased spaces in the parking lot and a number of currently occupied spaces in the parking lot . For example the parking management module selects a parking lot having at least a threshold difference between a number of previously purchased spaces and a number of currently occupied spaces which indicates there are at least the threshold number of unoccupied spaces in the selected parking lot . To increase the number of vehicles in the selected parking lot the parking management module the parking management module communicates a message to client devices associated with one or more users identifying the selected parking lot. The message may indicate a number of unoccupied spaces in the selected parking lot as well as the price associated with the selected parking lot . In some embodiments the parking management module modifies the price associated with the selected parking lot to encourage users to park vehicles in spaces of the selected parking lot. The parking management module may also modify a price associated with the selected parking lot to encourage users to park vehicles in spaces of the selected parking lot . For example the parking management module decreases a price of the selected parking lot to increase likelihoods of users purchasing spaces in the selected parking lot .

The parking management module also receives information describing traffic conditions within a threshold distance of the parking lot associated with the user and determines the directions for communication to the user based at least in part on the traffic conditions. Information describing the traffic conditions includes a number of currently occupied spaces in one or more additional parking lots such as additional parking lots within a threshold distance of the parking lot associated with the user. Based on the information describing the traffic conditions the parking management module may modify the directions to one or more locations associated with the parking lot associated with the user. For example the parking management module modifies the directions to a location associated with the parking lot to avoid one or more additional parking lots with at least a threshold number of currently occupied spaces or to avoid one or more geographic regions having at least a threshold number or density of vehicles. As traffic conditions change the parking management module may further modify the direction to a location associated with the parking lot and communicate the further modified directions to the client device associated with the user allowing a user to bypass congestion when travelling to the parking lot associated with the user.

The vendor management module receives orders for products or services from client devices associated with users and communicates the orders to one or more vendor systems of vendors associated with the venue . In various embodiments the vendor management module includes vendor profiles each associated with one or more vendors associated with the venue . A vendor profile includes a vendor identifier uniquely identifying a vendor and additional information associated with the vendor such as one or more regions of the venue associated with the vendor and information for communicating with a vendor system associated with the vendor . Further examples of information associated with the vendor and included in a vendor profile include contact information hours of operation a listing of products or services provided by the vendor a current inventory or products maintained by the vendor and a current time for the vendor to fulfill received orders. However in other embodiments additional or different information may be included in the vendor profile. One or more users authorized by the venue management system may communicate information to the vendor management system to modify regions of the venue associated with one or more vendors .

When the vendor management module receives an order identifying a product or service and identifying a vendor from a user the vendor management system communicates the order to a vendor system corresponding to the identified vendor . The vendor may subsequently deliver the product or service identified by the order to the user or may communicate a notification to the user via the venue management system when the order is fulfilled. To expedite delivery of products or services the vendor management module may associate different vendors with different regions of the venue to reduce time for users to receive products or services delivered by vendors . The vendor management module may modify regions of the venue associated with a vendor by modifying identifiers of regions included in a vendor profile of a vendor . In some embodiments the vendor management module modifies regions associated with a vendor based on a number or a frequency of orders received from users associated with different regions as well as a time to fulfill orders by different vendors products or services offered by different vendors or a number of orders received by different vendors . When modifying regions associated with a vendor or vendors associated with a region the venue management system may account for products or services provided by various vendors so similar products or services are provided to users in a region before and after modification of the vendors associated with the region .

Additionally the vendor management module receives information from a vendor system and communicates the information to one or more client devices for presentation to users. For example the vendor system communicates a time to fulfill an order an estimated time to fulfill an order a number of previously received orders that have yet to be fulfilled or other suitable information to the vendor management module which provides at least a subset of the information to a client device for presentation to a user. As another example a vendor system communicates a message to the venue management module including a user identifier an order identifier or a description of an order and an indication that an order corresponding to the order identifier has been fulfilled by a vendor. The vendor management module identifies a user corresponding to the user identifier from the user profile store and communicates the message to a client device associated with the user.

As vendors may deliver products to users in various regions of the venue to fulfill orders received from various users in some embodiments the vendor management module regulates communication of orders received from client devices associated with users to vendor systems associated with various vendors . When the vendor management module receives an order for a product or a service from a client device associated with a user the vendor management module stores the received order in a queue for a specified time interval before communicating the order to a vendor system corresponding to a vendor identified by the order. If the vendor management system receives additional orders from users having one or more characteristics matching or similar to the order stored in the queue and identifying the vendor identified by the order while the order is stored in the queue the vendor management module generates a group including the additional orders and the order stored in the queue and communicates the group or orders to a vendor system associated with the vendor to be fulfilled. For example the vendor management system generates a group including additional orders associated with users having a location matching a location of a user associated with an order stored in the queue. As additional examples the vendor management system generates a group including orders identifying products or services matching or similar to a product or service specified by an order stored in the queue or generates a group including orders identifying products or services having times for fulfillment within a threshold value of a time for fulfillment of the order stored in the queue. Communicating a group of orders having one or more matching or similar characteristics to a vendor system allows the vendor associated with vendor system to more efficiently fulfill orders from users.

The content selection module selects one or more content items for communication to a client device for presentation to a user. Content items eligible for presentation to the user are retrieved from the content store from a third party system or from another source by the content selection module which selects one or more of the content items for presentation to the user. A content item eligible for presentation to the viewing user is a content item associated with at least a threshold number of targeting criteria satisfied by characteristics of the user or is a content item that is not associated with targeting criteria. For example a content item associated with targeting criteria specifying a threshold distance of the venue is identified as eligible for presentation to users associated with locations within a threshold distance of the venue . As another example a content item associated with targeting criteria specifying attendance of an event at the venue is identified as eligible for presentation to users attending the event or who have indicated they will attend the event. In various embodiments the content selection module includes content items eligible for presentation to the user in one or more selection processes which identify a set of content items for presentation to the user. For example the content selection module determines a measure of relevance of various content items to a user based on characteristics associated with the user by the venue management system based on actions associated with the user by the venue management system characteristics of the user maintained by the venue management system preferences of the user maintained by the venue management system and characteristics of content items eligible for presentation to the user. For example the content selection module determines measures of relevance to a user based on characteristics of the content items characteristics of the user and actions associated with the user. Based on the measures of relevance the content selection module selects one or more content items for presentation to the user e.g. content items having at least a threshold measure of relevance content items having highest measures of relevance relative to other content items . In some embodiments the content selection module ranks content items based on their associated measures of relevance and selects content items having the highest positions in the ranking or having at least a threshold position in the ranking for presentation to the user.

A content item may be associated with bid amounts specifying an amount of compensation received by the venue management system from a third party system or from a user if one or more criteria associated with the content item are satisfied. For example a bid amount associated with a content item specifies an amount of compensation received by the venue management system when the content item is presented to a user or when a user presented with the content item performs a specified type of interaction with the content item. The content selection module uses the bid amounts associated with various content items when selecting content for presentation to the user. In various embodiments the content selection module determines an expected value associated with various content items based on their bid amounts and selects content items associated with a maximum expected value or associated with at least a threshold expected value for presentation to the user. An expected value associated with a content item represents an expected amount of compensation to the venue management system for presenting a content item. For example the expected value associated with a content item is a product of the content item s bid amount and a likelihood of the user interacting with the content item. The content selection module may rank content items associated with bid amounts separately than content items that are not associated with bid amounts and select content items for presentation based on the separate rankings e.g. content items having at least a threshold position in a ranking .

In some embodiment the content selection module selects content from the content store and maps portions of the content to various client devices within the venue and executing an application associated with the venue management system . As further described below in conjunction with the content selection module maps portions of content such as an image to different client devices based on locations of the client devices within the venue . The content selection module then communicates a message to a client device including a portion of the content mapped to the client device and the client device presents the portion of the content mapped to the client device on a display device of the client device when an interaction with the application associated with the venue management system is received. In various embodiments the content selection module selects content from the content store based at least in part on an action currently happening in the venue e.g. a red card being shown to a player in a soccer match . Alternatively the content selection module may receive content to be mapped to one or more client devices from a third party system or from one or more users of the venue management system e.g. a fan requesting a yellow card for a player of the opposing team in a soccer match . Content selected by the content selection module may be an image a video or any other suitable content. For instance a video of a flag waving may be selected for presentation by client devices within the venue by the content selection module when the national anthem is played during a sporting event in the venue .

The web server links venue management system via the network to one or more client devices as well as to one or more third party systems . Additionally the web server may exchange information between the venue management system and one or more vendor systems . The web server serves web pages as well as other content such as JAVA FLASH XML and so forth. The web server may receive and route messages between the venue management system and a client device for example instant messages queued messages e.g. email text messages short message service SMS messages or messages sent using any other suitable messaging technique. A user may send a request to the web server to upload information e.g. images or videos that are stored in the content store . Additionally the web server may provide application programming interface API functionality to send data directly to native client device operating systems such as IOS ANDROID WEBOS or BlackberryOS.

In some embodiments the content displayed is selected by a user of the venue management system operating a client device . For instance a user communicates content to the venue management system for presentation by client devices within the venue if the user believes a penalty should have been identified in a sporting event occurring within the venue . In some embodiments the venue management system identifies content received from at least a threshold number of users for presentation by client devices within the venue. For example content identifying a yellow card or yellow flag is identified for presentation by client devices within the venue if at least a threshold number of users communicate the content to the venue management system . In one embodiment locations within the venue associated with users who request content for presentation are used by the venue management system when selecting content for presentation by client devices within the venue . For example the venue management system selects content for presentation in a region of the venue if at least a threshold number of users associated with locations within the region identify the content to the venue management system .

The venue management system identifies content for presentation within the venue . In various embodiments the content may be selected from content stored by the venue management system from content maintained by a third party system that communicates with the venue management system or from content received by the venue management system from one or more users e.g. one or more users within the venue . For example content identified by the venue management system is the image illustrated in which is a static image showing the letters SF. 

In some embodiments the venue management system accounts for events occurring within the venue when identifying content. For example the venue management system identifies content associated with or related to one or more actions occurring during an event within the venue . As an example content identified by the venue management system is related to an action that occurred during the event within the venue at a time less than a threshold interval from a time when the venue management system identified the content. In another example the venue management system identifies content in anticipation of one or more actions occurring within the event in a threshold interval from a current time.

The venue management system receives location information for multiple client devices within the venue . In some embodiments the venue management system retrieves stored location information associated with client devices or associated with users associated with the client devices e.g. seats assigned to users based on tickets purchased by the users . Alternatively the venue management system receives location information from various client devices within the venue that identifies locations of the client devices . A location of a client device may be determined by a position sensor included in the client device as further described above in conjunction with . In some embodiments the venue management system uses a location determined by a position sensor included in a client device to determine whether a location of user associated with the client device is within a threshold distance e.g. 2 meters of a location associated with the user by the venue management system e.g. a seat assigned to the user . If the venue management system determines the location of the user is within the threshold distance of the location associated with the user by the venue management system the venue management system uses the location associated with the user by the venue management system e.g. a seat assigned to the user as the location of the user. If the location determined by the position sensor in the client device associated with the user is greater than the threshold distance from the location associated with the user by the venue management system the venue management system uses the location determined by the position sensor in the client device associated with the user as the location of the user.

Based at least in part on location information received from various client devices the venue management system maps portions of the identified content to different client devices . Referring to an example mapping of image to different client devices is shown. In the example of portions of image are mapped to client devices of users based on locations associated with the users by the venue management system such as seat locations of the users. For instance the portion of image located in the top left corner is mapped to a client device of a user assigned to row A seat while and the portion of image located at the bottom right corner is mapped to a client device of a user assigned to row L seat .

In one embodiment the venue management system maps each client device to a different portion of the identified content. In other embodiments multiple client devices within a threshold distance of each other are mapped to a common portion of the identified content. Further multiple adjacent portions of the identified content e.g. multiple adjacent pixels of an image may be mapped to a single client device .

The venue management system subsequently sends portions of the identified content to the client devices executing an application associated with the venue management system and mapped to the various portions of the identified content. If multiple portions of the identified content are mapped to a client device the venue management module may send each of the multiple portions of the identified content to the client device for display. Alternatively if multiple adjacent portions of the identified content are mapped to a client device the venue management module may send the client device an average of the portions of the identified content mapped to the client device e.g. an average value of pixels in an image mapped to the client device .

To display the identified content the display devices of the client devices that received portions of the identified content display the portions of the identified content. For example when a user of a client device interacts with an application executing on the client device and associated with the venue management system a display device of the client device presents the portion of the identified content received by the client device from the venue management system . Hence display devices of various client devices act as various pixels of the identified content if the identified content is an image.

Referring to an example presentation of content in a venue using display devices of client devices within the venue . In the example of a subset of client devices receive a specific color from the image e.g. black from the venue management system and display the specific color. Additionally another subset of client devices receive an alternative color from the image e.g. white and display the alternative color so the combination of content presented by display devices of client devices in the subset and in the additional subset present the image .

In some embodiments the portion of the identified content displayed by a display device of a client devices changes over time. For example a color displayed by a display device of a client device changes over time to allow presentation of a moving picture or a video. As an example colors presented by display devices change over time as a song playing in the venue produces different sounds. In some embodiments the venue management system sends multiple portions of the identified content to a client device along with instructions for the client device to select a portion of the identified content for presentation at different times e.g. times from a current time associated with presentation of different portions of the identified content . Alternatively the venue management system sends different portions of the identified content to the client device at different times to modify the content presented by the client device at different times.

To present the portion of the identified content received by a client device a user associated with the client device interacts with an application executing on the client device and associated with the venue management system . The application may identify a direction or an orientation of the client device for presenting the portion of the identified content. For example the application identifies a vertical orientation of a display device of the client device and a direction where the display device faces a location within the venue . In some embodiments the application executing on client device uses a gyroscope or a compass included in the client device to determine whether the client device has the direction or the orientation for presenting the portion of the identified content and presents a message to a user associated with the client device to reorient the client device .

The client devices may send orientation information to the venue management system describing directions or orientations of the client devices while presenting portions of the identified content. For instance a client device communicates angular information determined by a gyroscope in the client device and direction information determined by a compass in the client device to the venue management system . Based on the angular information and direction information the venue management system determines whether the client device is correctly displaying the portion of the identified content. If venue management system determines the client device is not correctly displaying the portion of the identified content the venue management system may send a message to the client device for the user to correct the orientation of the client device . For example if direction information received from a client device indicates the client device is pointing north when the identified content is to be presented to the south the venue management system may send a message to client device notifying the user of a direction to present the display device of the client device e.g. to direct the display device to the south . In another example the venue management system determines the client device is horizontally oriented based on angular information determined by a gyroscope of the client device and provided to the venue management system and sends a notification to a user of the client device to vertically orient the client device when presenting the portion of the identified content.

In other embodiments the venue management system sends a request to a client device within the venue including a portion of the identified content mapped to the client device executing an application associated with the venue management system . If the client device is currently presenting content from the application associated with the venue management system the application may automatically present the portion of the identified content included in the request. Alternatively the application prompts the user whether to present the portion of the identified content included in the request. If the client device is not currently presenting content from the application associated with the venue management system the client device presents a notification to the user that content has been received from the application and prompts the user to present content from the application via the client device .

The client device may modify one or more display settings when presenting the portion of the identified content received from the venue management system . For example an application executing on the client device and associated with the venue management system maximizes a brightness of a display device of the client device when presenting the portion of the identified content received from the venue management system. In other embodiments the venue management system determines a density of client devices in different regions of the venue and sends instructions to client devices along with the portions of the identified content mapped to the client devices that when executed by the client devices adjust brightness of display devices of each client device based on the density of client devices in each region of the venue the sizes of display devices of various client devices and maximum brightnesses of display devices of various client devices . For example the venue management module communicates instructions to client devices so brightnesses of display devices of client devices in regions with less than a threshold density of client devices i.e. regions with a small number of client devices receive portions of the identified content to a maximum brightness and so an average brightness of display devices of client devices in regions with greater than the threshold density of client devices matches an average brightness of display devices in regions with less than the threshold density of client devices . In another example the venue management system communicates instructions to a client device that determines a brightness for the client device based at least in part on a size of the display device of the client device e.g. a larger size display device may have a lower brightness than a smaller size display device .

The venue management system may determine a density of client devices in a region by communicating a request to client devices having locations within the region . Client devices presenting portions of the identified content from the venue management system communicate a confirmation to the venue management system while client devices not presenting portions of the identified content provide no response to the venue management system or provide a declination message to the venue management system . A ratio of the number of confirmations received by the venue management system to a number of client devices in the region or to an area of the region determines the density of client devices in the region . The venue management system may periodically determine the density of client devices in various regions and modify instructions sent to client devices for presenting content identified by the venue management system based on the determined densities of client devices .

In some embodiments the venue management system provides a reward to users who present portions of content identified by the venue management system . For instance the venue management system provides a coupon for use at a vendor within the venue to a user associated with a client device that presented a portion of the identified content. The venue management system may provide a reward to user who presents a portion of the identified content on their associated client devices for at least a threshold amount of time or at least a threshold number of times in various embodiments.

The foregoing description of the embodiments of the invention has been presented for the purpose of illustration it is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Persons skilled in the relevant art can appreciate that many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure.

Some portions of this description describe the embodiments of the invention in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally computationally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits microcode or the like. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules without loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be embodied in software firmware hardware or any combinations thereof.

Any of the steps operations or processes described herein may be performed or implemented with one or more hardware or software modules alone or in combination with other devices. In one embodiment a software module is implemented with a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium containing computer program code which can be executed by a computer processor for performing any or all of the steps operations or processes described.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes and or it may comprise a general purpose computing device selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions which may be coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore any computing systems referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to a product that is produced by a computing process described herein. Such a product may comprise information resulting from a computing process where the information is stored on a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium and may include any embodiment of a computer program product or other data combination described herein.

Finally the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments of the invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the following claims.

