---

title: Methods and systems for varying channel scanning duration
abstract: A device that includes one or more processors may receive instructions to scan, at a given time, one or more channels in one or more frequency bands for presence of wireless devices in an environment of the device. The device may also identify one or more operations of the device that are occurring at the given time. The device may also adjust a duration of scanning the one or more channels based on the identified operations. The device may also cause a wireless receiver of the device to scan, for the adjusted duration, the one or more channels for the presence of the wireless devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09432834&OS=09432834&RS=09432834
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09432834
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150103
---
Unless otherwise indicated herein the materials described in this section are not prior art to the claims in this application and are not admitted to be prior art by inclusion in this section.

Wireless communication systems typically transmit and receive information over multiple frequency channels. A wireless transceiver of a device may be tuned to a particular frequency to allow the device to communicate over a particular channel with a particular wireless device in the system. In another instance the transceiver may be tuned to another frequency to allow the device to communicate over another channel with another wireless device in the system. In a typical system the device may thus establish a connection with one or more wireless devices to receive access to a network or to communicate information with the system.

In one example a method is provided that comprises a device receiving instructions to scan at a given time one or more channels in one or more frequency bands for presence of wireless devices in an environment of the device. The device may include one or more processors. The method also comprises identifying one or more operations of the device that are occurring at the given time. The method also comprises adjusting a duration of scanning the one or more channels for the presence of the wireless devices based on the identified operations of the device. The method also comprises causing a wireless receiver of the device to scan for the adjusted duration the one or more channels for the presence of the wireless devices.

In another example a device is provided that comprises a wireless receiver. The device also comprises one or more processors and data storage storing instructions that upon execution by the one or more processors cause the device to identify one or more operations of the device that are occurring at a given time. The instructions may further cause the device to adjust a duration of scanning one or more channels in one or more frequency bands for presence of wireless devices in the environment of the device based on the identified operations of the device. The instructions may further cause the device to operate the wireless receiver to scan at the given time and for the adjusted duration the one or more channels for the presence of the wireless devices.

In yet another example a computer readable medium is provided. The computer readable medium may have instructions stored therein that when executed by a computing device cause the computing device to perform functions. The functions comprise receiving a request to scan at a given time one or more channels in one or more frequency bands for presence of wireless devices in an environment of the computing device. The functions further comprise identifying one or more operations of the computing device that are occurring at the given time. The functions further comprise adjusting a duration of scanning the one or more channels for the presence of the wireless devices. The functions further comprise causing a wireless receiver of the computing device to scan for the adjusted duration the one or more channels for the presence of the wireless devices.

In still another example a system is provided comprising a means for a device receiving instructions to scan at a given time one or more channels in one or more frequency bands for presence of wireless devices in an environment of the device. The device may include one or more processors. The system also comprises means for identifying one or more operations of the device that are occurring at the given time. The system also comprises means for adjusting a duration of scanning the one or more channels for the presence of the wireless devices based on the identified operations of the device. The system also comprises means for causing a wireless receiver of the device to scan for the adjusted duration the one or more channels for the presence of the wireless devices.

These as well as other aspects advantages and alternatives will become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art by reading the following detailed description with reference where appropriate to the accompanying figures.

The following detailed description describes various features and functions of the disclosed systems and methods with reference to the accompanying figures. In the figures similar symbols identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative system device and method embodiments described herein are not meant to be limiting. It may be readily understood by those skilled in the art that certain aspects of the disclosed systems devices and methods can be arranged and combined in a wide variety of different configurations all of which are contemplated herein.

In some example wireless communications systems disclosed herein an available frequency band is utilized by network nodes e.g. IEEE 802.11 compliant access points such as those in a wireless local area network WLAN Bluetooth beacons wireless wide area network WWAN access points cellular towers nodes base stations etc. to wirelessly communicate with client devices e.g. smartphones mobile devices desktop computers laptops wearable devices etc. . In some systems client devices may also communicate with one another. In both cases the available frequency band may be regulated in a particular geographic zone according to a standard e.g. IEEE 802.11 etc. that defines one or more channels within the frequency band for the wireless communication. By way of example a G band of the IEEE 802.11 standard in some geographical zones provides fourteen channels e.g. within a frequency band proximal to a frequency of 2.4 GHz eleven of which are active channels that compliant wireless devices may utilize to establish communications with other compliant wireless devices access points. In this example channel 1 may have a center frequency of 2.412 GHz channel 6 may have a center frequency of 2.437 GHz etc. Further in this example each channel may have a particular bandwidth e.g. 20 MHz 22 MHz etc. . As another example an A band in some geographical zones provides nine active channels e.g. within a frequency band proximal to a frequency of 5 GHz . Other standards are possible as well for various frequency bands and according to various regulations of a respective geographic zone.

To facilitate discovery or association with other wireless devices in a system a device of the present disclosure may scan the one or more frequency channels for wireless signals transmitted by any of the wireless devices. In a passive scanning mode the device tunes a transceiver e.g. circuitry and antenna to a particular channel and keeps the transceiver tuned to the particular channel for a particular period of time e.g. dwell time to listen for wireless signals transmitted by the other wireless devices over the particular channel. In an active scanning mode the transceiver transmits an active probe request over the particular channel and remains tuned to the particular channel for the particular period of time to listen for a response. In some instances the device then repeats this process for the other channels.

The dwell time per channel may vary according to a configuration of the device. On one hand a short dwell time decreases the likelihood of detecting an active probe beacon from another wireless device in the system a probe response from the other wireless device or any other wireless transmission from the other wireless device. For instance the short dwell time may be insufficient to account for delays due to various network issues such as packet congestion packet quality environmental effects etc. On the other hand a long dwell time increases the likelihood of detection but affects other operations of the device such as operations that utilize the transceiver. Further the long dwell time may also increase the power consumption of the device while the transceiver is powered to listen for the wireless signals in each or any of the multiple channels.

By way of example suppose that the scanning process described above involves the device scanning 20 channels for a dwell time of 80 ms per channel. Other dwell times e.g. 5 ms 20 ms 40 ms etc. and or number of channels are possible and may vary according to the system or device. However for the sake of the example suppose that the dwell time is 80 ms per channel. The total duration for scanning all the channels in this example would then be 20 80 ms 1.6 seconds. In some instances the scanning process may be initiated periodically intermittently in response to receiving a scan request in response to a sensor measurement e.g. location sensor etc. or in any other fashion according to an application or configuration of the device.

Continuing with the example above suppose that the device performs the scanning process every minute. In one instance the device may be utilizing the transceiver to communicate data e.g. video stream with a given wireless device using one of the 20 channels at the time when the scanning process should be initiated. In this instance the device would interrupt every minute and for 1.6 seconds the communication with the given wireless device to perform the scanning process. In turn the throughput or quality of the communication may be reduced. In another instance the device or the transceiver may be in a low power mode e.g. sleep mode etc. such as a mode when a display of the device is switched off a user selected power consumption mode etc. In this instance the device would awaken e.g. provide power the transceiver for 1.6 seconds to perform the scanning process every minute. In turn power consumption of the device over a given period of time e.g. multiple scans would increase due to the scanning process. Suppose that in this instance the device is battery powered. To that extent the amount of increase in power consumption due to the scanning process may affect the battery life or the amount of time the device may operate using the battery.

Within examples the present method allows mitigating the effect of the duration of the scanning process by varying a scan time for one or more channels according to operations of the device at a given time of the scanning process. In one example where the device is engaged in an operation where detection of other wireless devices is likely useful such as when a current connection to a network experiences reduced quality for instance the device may increase the duration of scanning the one or more channels e.g. restore the duration to a default duration etc. . In another example where the operation is one where detection of other wireless devices is less likely to be useful such as when a display is switched off or when the device is in an idle mode for instance the device may decrease the duration of scanning the one or more channels. Other examples are possible as well and are contemplated within exemplary embodiments herein.

Example systems herein may be implemented in or may take the form of a computing device e.g. desktop computer laptop cellular phone personal digital assistant PDA network node access point wearable device mobile device etc. that includes and or is coupled to a wireless receiver transmitter. In an example implementation an application an application programming interface API an operating system or circuitry that is wired to perform logic functions may provide instructions executable by one or more processors of the computing device to perform the functions described herein. Other implementations are possible as well and are described within exemplary embodiments herein.

Referring now to the figures illustrates a device according to an example embodiment. The device may include a display applications and an application programming interface API and an operating system for executing instructions to operate hardware of the device . Although device is illustrated in as a smartphone aspects of this disclosure are applicable to other computing devices such as personal computers laptops tablet computers servers wearable devices etc.

The display may include a light emitting diode LED display a liquid crystal display LCD a cathode ray tube CRT display an e ink screen and or any other suitable device for presenting a graphical user interface and or visual information to the user of the device . Although illustrated in that the display is included in the device in some examples the display may be implemented as an external display coupled to the device . For example the display may be an external monitor or projection screen configured to display the visual information provided by the device .

Each of the applications and may include instructions that when executed cause the device to perform specific tasks or functions. The applications and may be native applications i.e. installed by a manufacturer of the device and or a manufacturer of the operating system or may be a third party application installed by a user of the device . A non exhaustive list of example applications includes a media player application that accepts media files as inputs and generates corresponding video and or audio to output device s e.g. the display speakers headphones etc. an e reader application which accepts electronic documents e.g. books magazines etc. as an input and presents the content of the documents via the display a feed reader that accepts feeds delivered over a network e.g. RSS feeds and or feeds from social network sites as inputs and presents the feeds via the display a map application that displays a map via the display a note taking application a bookmarking application a word processing application spreadsheet application and or presentation application that accepts specifically formatted files as inputs and presents them via the display for viewing and or editing. Other example applications are possible.

The device may also include one or more APIs such as the API . The API may function as an interface between the operating system and the applications and . For example the API may provide the interface for receiving requests having a particular format from the application and or and may manage provision of the requests to the operating system . Further in some examples the API may be configured to process requests that are directed to particular functions of the device such as operation of the display or the hardware . In other examples the API may be configured to process requests for any combination of functions of the device . Additionally or alternatively the functions of the API may be performed by the operating system . For example the applications and or may be configured to interface directly with the operating system .

The operating system may interact with and manage the display and the hardware to provide services for the applications and . For example the application may request the operating system to utilize the hardware to scan for wireless devices in an environment of the device .

The hardware may include for example a central processing unit CPU a graphics processor GPU memory a communication interface a power unit an input output I O interface user input device s and output device s . Components of hardware may be controlled by instructions contained in applications and the API and or the operating system .

The central processing unit CPU may be operable to effectuate the operation of the device by executing instructions stored in memory or disk storage. Such instructions may include the operating system and the applications and for example. The CPU may for example comprise a single or multi core processor an application specific integrated circuit ASIC field programmable gate array FPGA and or any other suitable circuitry.

The graphics processor may be operable to generate a video stream for output to the display based on instructions and or data received from the CPU. Additionally or alternatively the graphics processor may be operable to perform animations of virtual objects on a display region of the display . Thus data structures corresponding to images to be displayed on the display may be stored to and read from the memory or disk storage by the CPU. The CPU may convey such data structures to the graphics processor via a standardized application programming interface API such as for example the API Standard Widget Toolkit SWT the DirectX Video Acceleration API the Video Decode Acceleration Framework API or other suitable API.

The memory may include program memory and run time memory. The memory may for example comprise non volatile memory volatile memory read only memory ROM random access memory RAM flash memory magnetic storage and or any other suitable memory. Program memory may store instructions executable by the CPU to effectuate operation of the operating system and the applications and . Runtime memory may store data generated or used during execution of the operating system or applications and

The communication interface may be operable to allow wired e.g. Ethernet Universal Serial Bus USB etc. and or wireless e.g. Wi Fi Bluetooth near field Infrared IR etc. connectivity between the device and one or more external devices. To that end the communication interface may include a wireless receiver configured to receive and or manipulate wireless signals and or a wireless transmitter configured to transmit and or manipulate wireless signals. In some examples the wireless receiver and the wireless transmitter can be implemented as a single circuit that performs both transmit and receive functions. The communication interface may also include one or more antennas e.g. dipole etc. coupled to the various transmitter receiver and or transceiver circuitry to broadcast and or receive the wireless signals.

The input output I O interface may be operable to receive signals from the input device s and provide corresponding signals to the CPU and or the graphics processor. The input device s may include for example a mouse a touchpad a motion sensor a trackball a voice recognition device a keyboard or any other suitable input device which enables a user to interact with the device . The output devices may include for example the display additional displays headphones and or speakers.

In some examples the device may include more or less components than those shown in . In one example the device may not include any or some of the applications and the API . In another example the hardware may not include a GPU. Other examples are possible as well.

In some implementations the device may include a device platform not shown which may be configured as a multi layered platform. The device platform may include different applications and an application framework as well as various kernels libraries and runtime entities. In other examples other formats or systems may operate the device as well.

As shown the device includes a wireless receiver a wireless transmitter an I O interface a display component data storage and a processor . Components illustrated in may be linked together by a communication link . In some examples the device may include hardware to enable communication within the device and between the device and another computing device not shown such as a server entity. The hardware may include antennas for example.

The wireless receiver and the wireless transmitter may be configured to allow the device to wirelessly communicate e.g. Wi Fi Bluetooth IR near field short range wireless radio technology communication protocols described in IEEE 802.11 including any IEEE 802.11 revisions cellular technology etc. with another computing device not shown such as a server an access point another device similar to the device etc. In particular the wireless receiver may be configured to wirelessly receive data from one or more computing devices and the wireless transmitter may be configured to send data to the one or more computing devices. In some examples the receiver and the transmitter may also maintain and manage records of data received and sent by the device . In other examples records of data may be maintained and managed by other components of the device .

In some examples the device may also include wired transmitters and or receivers not shown to allow wired communication as well using any wired communication technology e.g. USB HDMI Ethernet serial line etc. .

The I O interface may include a user interface such as a keyboard microphone touch screen etc. to receive inputs and circuitry to manage and maintain the user interface. Further in some examples the interface may also include interface with output devices such as the display of .

The display component may be a hardware interface that is configured to facilitate output of visual information via the display of . For example the display component may include circuitry that operates the display or may communicate the visual information to the display by using the wireless transmitter to couple the display with the device .

The processor may be configured to operate the device . For example the processor may be configured to cause the wireless receiver to perform a scan over one or more channels in one or more frequency bands for presence of wireless devices in the environment of the device . The processor may also be configured to operate other components of the device such as input output components or display components. The device is illustrated to include an additional processor . The processor may be configured to control some of the aspects described for the processor . For example the processor may be a GPU that operates the display and the processor may be configured to control other aspects such as the wireless receiver and or the wireless transmitter . Some embodiments may include only one processor e.g. processor or may include additional processors configured to control various aspects of the device .

The data storage may store program logic that can be accessed and executed by the processor and or the processor . For example the program logic may include the instructions provided by the applications and the API and or the operating system .

The communication link is illustrated as a wired connection however wireless connections may also be used. For example the communication link may be a wired serial bus such as a universal serial bus or a parallel bus or a wireless connection using e.g. short range wireless radio technology communication protocols described in IEEE 802.11 including any IEEE 802.11 revisions or Cellular technology among other possibilities.

The device and or the wireless devices may be configured to wirelessly communicate information with one another. In one scenario the client device may receive connectivity to a server not shown or a network via one or more of the access points . In another scenario the client device may wirelessly communicate information with another client device not shown . Other scenarios are possible as well.

In some examples the wireless devices may transmit wireless signals that are shown in as respectively signals . The wireless signals may include for example an active probe beacon a probe response or any other wireless signal that may be received by the device to indicate presence of a corresponding wireless device of the wireless devices 

However location and wireless communication availability of the device and or the wireless devices may vary over time. In one example the device may be a mobile device that travels such that at a given time one or more of the signals is within the environment e.g. threshold distance for wireless communication etc. of the device . In another example the access points may also be moved e.g. wireless routers in a building or may be powered during certain times of the day among other possibilities. Accordingly in some examples the present method allows the device and or the wireless devices to scan a respective environment for presence of other client devices wireless devices at a given time. In some examples the scanning process may occur intermittently periodically in response to receiving a scan request or in response to any other event according to a configuration of the respective device.

The scanning process may involve for example the device tuning at or after the given time for the scan a wireless receiver thereof not shown to a particular channel of a frequency band e.g. channel 1 of the G band of the IEEE 802.11 standard etc. . The device may then remain tuned to the particular channel for a given period of time e.g. dwell time to listen for wireless transmissions from other devices e.g. any of the wireless devices etc. . Further the scanning process may then involve the device tuning the wireless receiver to another channel of the frequency band or another frequency band and remaining tuned to the other channel for the given period of time e.g. dwell time or some other period of time. Through this process for example a duration of the scanning process may include a sum of the dwell times for listening to all the channels and possibly additional time for re tuning powering etc. of the wireless receiver .

In addition for the method and other processes and methods disclosed herein the flowchart shows functionality and operation of one possible implementation of present embodiments. In this regard each block may represent a module a segment a portion of a manufacturing or operation process or a portion of program code which includes one or more instructions executable by a processor for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process. The program code may be stored on any type of computer readable medium for example such as a storage device including a disk or hard drive. The computer readable medium may include non transitory computer readable medium for example such as computer readable media that stores data for short periods of time like register memory processor cache and Random Access Memory RAM . The computer readable medium may also include non transitory media such as secondary or persistent long term storage like read only memory ROM optical or magnetic disks compact disc read only memory CD ROM for example. The computer readable media may also be any other volatile or non volatile storage systems. The computer readable medium may be considered a computer readable storage medium for example or a tangible storage device.

In addition for the method and other processes and methods disclosed herein each block in may represent circuitry that is wired to perform the specific logical functions in the process.

At block the method includes identifying one or more operations of a device that are occurring at a given time. The device may be similar to the device . For example the device may include one or more processors similar to the processor of the device .

Further in some examples the method may include the device receiving instructions to scan at a given time one or more channels in one or more frequency bands for presence of a wireless device in an environment of the device e.g. the device of the system etc. . By way of example the device may include a wireless receiver e.g. wireless receiver that is configured to scan 11 channels in a G band and 9 channels in an A band of an IEEE 802.11 standard environment. In this example the instructions may cause the device to scan at the given time the 20 channels for a particular dwell time e.g. 80 ms on each channel. The duration of such scan for example may include a sum of the dwell times e.g. 20 80 ms 1.6 seconds .

In one example the instructions may be provided by an application such as the applications and of the device . For example an email application may request the scan i.e. provide the instructions to facilitate initiating a connection with an access point e.g. the wireless device and thereby download email from a server via the access point. In another example the instructions may be provided periodically or intermittently. For example an operating system such as the OS may provide the instructions e.g. periodically or intermittently to scan for presence of access points Bluetooth beacons or other wireless devices in the vicinity of the device in anticipation of a user request to connect to such access point. In yet another example the instructions may be provided in response to some other event such as launching an application beginning a video stream detecting poor signal strength of a current connection or any other event. Other examples are possible as well. Thus in some examples the identification of the one or more operations at block may be in response to receiving the instructions to scan.

At the given time or prior to the given time in some examples the device of the present method may identify various operations of the device. A non exhaustive list of example operations includes wireless connectivity status of the device operation of a particular application e.g. video display application etc. power mode of the device e.g. power saving mode normal mode airplane mode etc. power consumption level of the device or components thereof inputs received by the device or any other operation.

At block the method includes adjusting a duration of scanning one or more channels in one or more frequency bands for presence of wireless devices in an environment of the device based on the identified operations of the device.

In line with the discussion above the duration of scanning the one or more channels may interfere with some operations of the device. For example while the device is scanning the one or more channels the device may consume additional power to operate wireless receiver e.g. transceiver circuitry during the scan. In some examples the present method allows mitigating the effect of such interference by adjusting the duration of the scan according to the one or more operations of the device at the given time that are identified at block .

In a first example the device may detect that an amount of power to a display of the device is less than a threshold. For instance the display may be switched off or may be operating in a low power mode e.g. due to inactivity or other configuration setting etc. . In this instance detecting the presence of the wireless device in the environment may be less critical than an instance where the display is switched on e.g. device is being actively used at the given time etc. . In this example the device may adjust the duration of the scan by reducing the dwell time for scanning some or all of the one or more channels based at least in part on the amount of the power to the display being less than the threshold thereby conserving the amount of power provided to the wireless receiver. Accordingly in some examples the method may include detecting that an amount of power to a display of the device is less than a threshold and responsively reducing the duration of scanning the one or more channels.

In a second example the device may determine that at the given time an external computing device is in wireless connectivity with the device using one of the one or more channels. For instance the device may be connected to an access point using one of the channels at the given time. In this instance detection of the presence of other wireless devices in the environment may be less critical since the device already has an active connection. In turn for example the device may adjust the duration to reduce the scanning time. Accordingly in some examples the method may include determining that the device is in wireless connectivity with an external computing device using one of the one or more channels and responsively reducing the duration of scanning the one or more channels.

In a third example the device may detect a change in power consumption of the device greater than a threshold change. For instance the device may initiate a map application that consumes a significant amount of power e.g. to use a Global Positioning System GPS sensor etc. . In this instance the amount of power consumed is substantially more than the power that would be saved by reducing the duration of the scan time and thus the dwell time per channel may be restored increased to a longer time e.g. 80 ms . As a variation of the example above if the map application is closed the device may detect a significant reduction in the power consumption e.g. greater than the threshold change and thus may reduce the dwell time per channel e.g. 20 ms . Accordingly in some examples the method may include detecting a change in power consumption of the device greater than a threshold change. In these examples adjusting the duration is based also on detecting the change.

In a fourth example the device may receive an input from an input interface e.g. I O interface and adjust the scanning duration accordingly. In one instance the device may detect input from a button or touchscreen which may indicate that a user of the device is currently or recently using the device and may thereby need to detect presence of other wireless devices in the environment. In this instance the device may increase or restore the dwell time per channel e.g. 80 ms to increase the likelihood of detecting other wireless devices. In another instance the device may detect an input requesting that the device operate in a low power mode. In this instance the device may reduce the dwell time per channel and therefore the duration of scanning the one or more channels to reduce overall power consumption. Accordingly in some examples the method may include receiving an input from an input interface of the device. In these examples adjusting the duration may be responsive to receiving the input.

In a fifth example the device may detect activity of a particular application in the device and adjust the duration accordingly. For instance the device may detect activity of a video playback application an audio application a phone application or any other application where a user of the device is unlikely to request or need detection of wireless devices in the environment at the given time. In this instance the device may reduce the dwell time per channel. In another instance the device may detect activity of a web browser application that may indicate that the user may need to wirelessly connect to other access points e.g. in case a current connection experiences poor quality . In this instance the device may increase or restore the dwell time to a longer time. Accordingly in some examples the method may include detecting activity of a particular application in the device. In these examples adjusting the duration may be based on detecting the activity.

In a sixth example the device may receive a request for wireless connectivity to an external computing device. For instance a user of the device may request the device to send an email to a server. In this instance the device may increase or restore the dwell time per channel to increase the likelihood of detecting presence of an access point to facilitate sending the email. Accordingly in some examples the method may include receiving a request for wireless connectivity to an external computing device from an application in the device and responsively increasing the duration of scanning the one or more channels.

In a seventh example the device may adjust the scanning duration based on previously detected wireless devices in the environment. For instance the device may maintain a list of detected wireless devices or may detect the presence of a given wireless device while scanning one of the one or more channels. In this instance the device may reduce the dwell time per channel at least for the remaining channels to be scanned since at least one wireless device in the environment was already detected. Accordingly in some examples the method may include detecting presence of a given wireless device in the environment of the device based on a scan of a given channel of the one or more channels by the wireless receiver and responsively reducing the adjusted duration of scanning the one or more channels.

In an eighth example the device may adjust the duration based on an event based configuration or other configuration of the device. For instance the device may detect a preferred network offload PNO event. PNO may allow the device to establish and or maintain a Wi Fi connection even when the device is in a low power mode e.g. when the screen is turned off . By way of example the PNO configuration may allow the device to communicate using Wi Fi e.g. the wireless receiver instead of a cellular communication interface that consumes more power even when the device is in the low power mode. In this instance the device may increase and or restore the dwell time per channel e.g. 80 ms based on receipt of the PNO event to increase the likelihood of detecting wireless devices e.g. Wi Fi access points in the environment even when the device is in a low power mode e.g. amount of power to the display is less than the threshold .

Other examples are possible as well. Thus the method allows varying the duration of scanning the one or more channels or the dwell time for scanning some or all of the one or more channels according to the operations of the device at the given time of the scan.

At block the method includes causing a wireless receiver of the device to scan for the adjusted duration the one or more channels for presence of the wireless devices. For example if the dwell time per channel is reduced to 40 ms at block and the one or more channels are 20 channels. The adjusted duration may correspond to 40 ms 19 channels 800 ms. In turn the device may tune the wireless receiver to the first channel for 40 ms the second channel for 40 ms etc. Other dwell times are possible as well e.g. 5 ms 10 ms 20 ms 40 ms 80 ms etc. according to the configuration of the device. Further the dwell time for each channel may be different depending on the identified operations of the device for example.

In some examples the method may include reducing an amount of power to the wireless receiver after lapse of the adjusted duration. For example the device may configure the wireless receiver to an awake mode to perform the scan for the adjusted duration thereby increasing the power provided to the wireless receiver e.g. Wi Fi board etc. . In this example the device may then configure the wireless receiver to a sleep mode after the scan is performed i.e. lapse of the adjusted duration thereby reducing the power provided to the wireless receiver.

In some examples the method may include transmitting a probe request via a wireless transmitter e.g. transmitter using the one or more channels. In these examples the wireless receiver may scan the one or more channels for a response to the probe request over the adjusted duration responsive to transmitting the probe request. Thus for example the device of the method may be configured in an active scanning mode to transmit the probe request over a given channel listen for the response over the given channel for an adjusted dwell time e.g. 40 ms then proceed to the next channel and transmit another probe request etc.

As noted above in some embodiments the disclosed techniques e.g. method may be implemented by computer program instructions encoded on a computer readable storage media in a machine readable format or on other media or articles of manufacture e.g. program logic of the device . is a schematic illustrating a conceptual partial view of an example computer program product that includes a computer program for executing a computer process on a computing device arranged according to at least some embodiments disclosed herein.

In one embodiment the example computer program product is provided using a signal bearing medium . The signal bearing medium may include one or more programming instructions that when executed by one or more processors may provide functionality or portions of the functionality described above with respect to . In some examples the signal bearing medium may be a computer readable medium such as but not limited to a hard disk drive a Compact Disc CD a Digital Video Disk DVD a digital tape memory etc. In some implementations the signal bearing medium may be a computer recordable medium such as but not limited to memory read write R W CDs R W DVDs etc. In some implementations the signal bearing medium may be a communication medium e.g. a fiber optic cable a waveguide a wired communications link etc. . Thus for example the signal bearing medium may be conveyed by a wireless form of the communications medium .

The one or more programming instructions may be for example computer executable and or logic implemented instructions. In some examples a computing device may be configured to provide various operations functions or actions in response to the programming instructions conveyed to the computing device by one or more of the computer readable medium the computer recordable medium and or the communications medium .

The computer readable medium may also be distributed among multiple data storage elements which could be remotely located from each other. The computing device that executes some or all of the stored instructions could be an external computer or a mobile computing platform such as a smartphone tablet device personal computer wearable device etc. Alternatively the computing device that executes some or all of the stored instructions could be remotely located computer system such as a server.

It should be understood that arrangements described herein are for purposes of example only. As such those skilled in the art will appreciate that other arrangements and other elements e.g. machines interfaces functions orders and groupings of functions etc. can be used instead and some elements may be omitted altogether according to the desired results. Further many of the elements that are described are functional entities that may be implemented as discrete or distributed components or in conjunction with other components in any suitable combination and location or other structural elements described as independent structures may be combined.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope being indicated by the following claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

