---

title: Infrastructure for secure short message transmission
abstract: A user equipment (UE) is disclosed. The UE comprises a radio frequency transceiver, processor, a memory, and an application stored to the memory. The application, when executed by the processor establishes a communication link from the UE to a communication terminal. The application sends a validation message to the communication terminal over the communication link, wherein a passcode is appended to the validation message send to the communication terminal. The application receives the validation message back from the communication terminal via the communication link, wherein the received validation message has an appended aggregate security signature on the message that shows that the message was read and validated by the communication terminal. The application sends a short message over the communication link to the communication terminal. The application then tears down the communication link.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09473945&OS=09473945&RS=09473945
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 09473945
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150407
---
Short message service SMS messages are a text message service component of voice communications systems. SMS allows mobile phones to send text messages via a wireless voice communication system. Multimedia messaging service MMS messages are short messages that are sent over a wireless data communication channel. MMS messages may comprise images and or video. Instant messaging IM messages are short messages that transmit text over the Internet.

Trusted communications may be desired in some communication contexts. Trusted communications may be promoted by hardware features. Trusted communication may be conducted over a chain of communication nodes each executing in a trusted operation mode e.g. performing communication functions with the assistance of hardware features or with hardware assisted trust hence forming a continuity of trust. Trust tokens such as security tokens passcodes personal identification numbers PINs and other forms or validation that may be used by the communication nodes to verify trusted operation status of other communication nodes in the path or route of continuity.

In an embodiment a user equipment UE is disclosed. The UE comprises a radio frequency transceiver a processor a memory and an application stored to the memory. The application when executed by the processor establishes a communication link from the first UE to a communication terminal. The application sends a validation message to the communication terminal over the communication link wherein a passcode is appended to the validation message sent to the communication terminal. The application receives the validation message back from the communication terminal via the communication link wherein the received validation message has an appended aggregate security signature on the message that shows that the message was read and validated by the communication terminal. The application then sends a message over the communication link to the communication terminal. The application then tears down the communication link.

A method of secure communication using short messages is disclosed. The method comprises a user equipment UE establishing a communication link from the UE to a communication terminal. The method comprises the UE sending a validation message to the communication terminal over the communication link wherein a passcode is appended to the validation message sent to the communication terminal. The method comprises the UE receiving the validation message back from the communication terminal via the communication link wherein the received validation message has an appended aggregate security signature on the message that shows that the message was validated and read by the communication terminal. The method further comprises the UE sending a short message over the communication link to the communication terminal. The method further comprises the UE tearing down the communication link.

In an embodiment a method of secure communication using short messages is disclosed. The method comprises a user equipment UE establishing a communication link from the UE to a communication terminal wherein the communication link comprises a plurality of nodes operating in trusted operation mode. The method comprises the UE sending a validation message to the communication terminal over the communication link wherein a passcode is appended to the validation message sent to the communication terminal wherein the validation message is tagged by each of the plurality of nodes that it passes through over the communication link from the UE to the communication terminal wherein the compiled tags comprise an aggregate security signature. The method comprises the UE receiving the validation message back from the communication terminal via the communication link wherein the validation message comprises the appended aggregate security signature that shows that the message was read and validated by the communication terminal wherein the validation message returns to the UE along the same communication link. The method comprises the UE sending a short message over the communication link from the UE to the communication terminal. The method comprises the UE tearing down the communication link.

These and other features will be more clearly understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

It should be understood at the outset that although illustrative implementations of one or more embodiments are illustrated below the disclosed systems and methods may be implemented using any number of techniques whether currently known or not yet in existence. The disclosure should in no way be limited to the illustrative implementations drawings and techniques illustrated below but may be modified within the scope of the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents.

A system and methods for secure communication using for example short messages such as short message service SMS messages multimedia messages service MMS messages and or instant messages IM is disclosed. SMS and MMS messages may be short messages that are transmitted by and or transmitted to mobile communication devices such as a user equipment UE . Prior to implementation of a UE that establishes a communication link with a communication terminal for secure communication companies that wished to send short messages and the content of those short messages in trust may not have been able to do so securely. The communication terminal may be a UE or it may be a server computer that executes a messaging application that is able to exchange short messages with a UE for example SMS messages MMS messages or IM messages.

The UE in the system allows for a trusted communication environment to be established so that trusted transmission and reception of short messages can be transmitted and received securely. In an embodiment secure communication is demonstrated by communication occurring over a trusted communication pathway. Having trusted transmission of short messages provides indemnification for companies that wish to use short messages for communication and prevents outside parties from spying on the messages or the content of the messages that are being sent during and after the communication process. While the disclosure describes the system in the context of various short message communication mechanisms it is understood that the teachings of the present disclosure may be applied to other messaging mechanisms or formats that are not qualified as short messages. Additionally one or more of the messaging mechanisms explicitly defined herein as short messages for example MMS messages may encapsulate a non trivial amount of data for example may encapsulate or comprise video content.

In an embodiment a UE that comprises a processing application establishes a communication link to a communication terminal. The communication link is a temporary secure and or trusted communication link or communication pathway that allows for trusted transmission of short messages such as SMS messages MMS messages or IM messages. The UE may be a mobile communication device such as a mobile phone a personal digital assistant PDA a tablet computer or another device. The communication terminal may be a UE or a server computer that executes an application suitable for implementing the system herein described for example an application that is able to send and receive short messages e.g. SMS messages MMS messages or IM messages . The communication link may be comprised of a plurality of nodes operating in trusted operation mode and in communication to each other forming an end to end communication link. Alternatively a secure communication link may be provided by a first node operating in trust coupled by a plurality of nodes not operating in trust to a second node operating in trust. The communication link from the first node operating in trust to the second node operating in trust may be provided in the inside of a communication service provider network and may be provided for example over a virtual private network VPN resource.

After establishing the secure communication link the processing application sends a validation message to the communication terminal. The validation message comprises a passcode that the communication terminal may read and use to identify that the UE is a trusted UE that it can communicate with. The passcode is a security token a personal identification number PIN or another form of passcode that the communication terminal uses to validate the UE. The validation message is also tagged by each of the plurality of nodes operating in trusted operation mode that it passes through over the communication link from the UE to the second UE. The compiled tags comprise an aggregate security signature. The aggregate security signature comprises information regarding what time messages were sent what time they were received who received the messages and other factors that are important to companies that want to know the activity between the processing application and the communication terminal. The aggregate security signature is stored to a trust log so that the information in the aggregate security signature is recorded. By storing this information to a trust log questions concerning whether the information was exchanged or not can be confirmed by referring to the trust log. This provides protection or indemnification for companies in case another company questions the validity of an exchange.

The UE receives the validation message back from the communication terminal via the communication link. The validation message has the aggregate security signature appended to it that shows that the message was read and validated by the communication terminal. The validation message returns to the UE along the same communication link. With the validation message received the UE sends a short message over the communication link from the UE to the communication terminal. The short message is comprised of a payload that is desired by the communication terminal. The payload of the short message comprises one of a message statistics media content or other content. After sending the short message with the payload the UE tears down the communication link to the communication terminal. By tearing down the communication link the UE promotes security against outside parties that want to spy on the message and the content of the message. This comprises allowing the engaged nodes to leave trusted operation mode and return to normal operation mode.

The processing application promotes security or indemnification for users that wish to transmit short messages in trust. By setting up a secure communication link to a desired communication terminal validating the desired UE with the validation message where the desired UE validates itself sending the short message in trust and tearing down the communication link short messages can be sent in trust and have knowledge that the recipient is a trusted recipient. This provides users comfort to send content via short messages in trust knowing that their content that has been sent in the short message has not been spied on.

A trusted security zone provides chipsets with a hardware root of trust a secure execution environment for applications and secure access to peripherals. A hardware root of trust means the chipset should only execute programs intended by the device manufacturer or vendor and resists software and physical attacks and therefore remains trusted to provide the intended level of security. The chipset architecture is designed to promote a programmable environment that allows the confidentiality and integrity of assets to be protected from specific attacks. Trusted security zone capabilities are becoming features in both wireless and fixed hardware architecture designs. Providing the trusted security zone in the main mobile device chipset and protecting the hardware root of trust removes the need for separate secure hardware to authenticate the device or user. To ensure the integrity of the applications requiring trusted data such as a mobile financial services application the trusted security zone also provides the secure execution environment where only trusted applications can operate safe from attacks. Security is further promoted by restricting access of non trusted applications to peripherals such as data inputs and data outputs while a trusted application is running in the secure execution environment. In an embodiment the trusted security zone may be conceptualized as hardware assisted security.

A complete trusted execution environment TEE may be implemented through the use of the trusted security zone hardware and software architecture. The trusted execution environment is an execution environment that is parallel to the execution environment of the main mobile device operating system. The trusted execution environment and or the trusted security zone may provide a base layer of functionality and or utilities for use of applications that may execute in the trusted security zone. For example in an embodiment trust tokens may be generated by the base layer of functionality and or utilities of the trusted execution environment and or trusted security zone for use in trusted end to end communication links to document a continuity of trust of the communications. Through standardization of application programming interfaces APIs the trusted execution environment becomes a place in which scalable deployment of secure services can be targeted. A device which has a chipset that has a trusted execution environment on it may exist in a trusted services environment where devices in the trusted services environment are trusted and protected against attacks. The trusted execution environment can be implemented on mobile phones and tablets as well as extending to other trusted devices such as personal computers servers sensors medical devices point of sale terminals industrial automation handheld terminals automotive etc.

The trusted security zone is implemented by partitioning all of the hardware and software resources of the mobile device into two partitions a secure partition and a normal partition. The secure partition may be implemented by a first physical processor and the normal partition may be implemented by a second physical processor. Alternatively the secure partition may be implemented by a first virtual processor and the normal partition may be implemented by a second virtual processor. Placing sensitive resources in the secure partition can protect against possible attacks on those resources. For example resources such as trusted software applications may run in the secure partition and have access to hardware peripherals such as a touchscreen or a secure location in memory. Less secure peripherals such as wireless radios may be disabled completely while the secure partition is being accessed while other peripherals may only be accessed from the secure partition. While the secure partition is being accessed through the trusted execution environment the main mobile operating system in the normal partition is suspended and applications in the normal partition are prevented from accessing the secure peripherals and data. This prevents corrupted applications or malware applications from breaking the trust of the device.

The trusted security zone is implemented by partitioning the hardware and software resources to exist in a secure subsystem which is not accessible to components outside the secure subsystem. The trusted security zone is built into the processor architecture at the time of manufacture through hardware logic present in the trusted security zone which enables a perimeter boundary between the secure partition and the normal partition. The trusted security zone may only be manipulated by those with the proper credentials and in an embodiment may not be added to the chip after it is manufactured. Software architecture to support the secure partition may be provided through a dedicated secure kernel running trusted applications. Trusted applications are independent secure applications which can be accessed by normal applications through an application programming interface in the trusted execution environment on a chipset that utilizes the trusted security zone.

In an embodiment the normal partition applications run on a first virtual processor and the secure partition applications run on a second virtual processor. Both virtual processors may run on a single physical processor executing in a time sliced fashion removing the need for a dedicated physical security processor. Time sliced execution comprises switching contexts between the two virtual processors to share processor resources based on tightly controlled mechanisms such as secure software instructions or hardware exceptions. The context of the currently running virtual processor is saved the context of the virtual processor being switched to is restored and processing is restarted in the restored virtual processor. Time sliced execution protects the trusted security zone by stopping the execution of the normal partition while the secure partition is executing.

The two virtual processors context switch via a processor mode called monitor mode when changing the currently running virtual processor. The mechanisms by which the processor can enter monitor mode from the normal partition are tightly controlled. The entry to monitor mode can be triggered by software executing a dedicated instruction the Secure Monitor Call SMC instruction or by a subset of the hardware exception mechanisms such as hardware interrupts which can be configured to cause the processor to switch into monitor mode. The software that executes within monitor mode then saves the context of the running virtual processor and switches to the secure virtual processor.

The trusted security zone runs a separate operating system that is not accessible to the device users. For security purposes the trusted security zone is not open to users for installing applications which means users do not have access to install applications in the trusted security zone. This prevents corrupted applications or malware applications from executing powerful instructions reserved to the trusted security zone and thus preserves the trust of the device. The security of the system is achieved at least in part by partitioning the hardware and software resources of the mobile phone so they exist in one of two partitions the secure partition for the security subsystem and the normal partition for everything else. Placing the trusted security zone in the secure partition and restricting access from the normal partition protects against software and basic hardware attacks. Hardware logic ensures that no secure partition resources can be accessed by the normal partition components or applications. A dedicated secure partition operating system runs in a virtual processor separate from the normal partition operating system that likewise executes in its own virtual processor. Users may install applications on the mobile device which may execute in the normal partition operating system described above. The trusted security zone runs a separate operating system for the secure partition that is installed by the mobile device manufacturer or vendor and users are not able to install new applications in or alter the contents of the trusted security zone.

Turning now to a system is described. The system comprises a first user equipment UE that comprises a radio frequency transceiver RF XCVR a processor and a memory . The memory further comprises a processing application that further comprises a validation message a short message and a trust log . The system further comprises a second UE two enhanced node Bs eNBs and a network and a communication terminal that comprises a short message application . The network further comprises a plurality of nodes such as the nodes and

In an embodiment the first UE via the processing application sends messages to the second UE . The messages may be short messages like the short message . The short message may be a short message service SMS message a multimedia message service MMS message an instant message IM message a validation message like the validation message or other types of messages. The first and second UEs may be mobile phones smart phones media players wearable computers headset computers and other devices. The radio frequency transceiver may provide a wireless link to the eNBs . The processor may execute processes of the processing application and the memory may store the processing application . The processing application may execute functionality where it establishes and tears down a secure communication link from the first UE to the second UE and transmission of messages such as the validation message and the short message over the secure communication link from the first UE to the second UE . In an embodiment secure communication is demonstrated by communication occurring via a trusted communication pathway. The communication link may be a temporary trusted communication pathway that is comprised of a plurality of nodes such as the nodes and operating in trusted operation mode that are a part of the network . Said in other words the nodes may be substantially similar but in the state depicted in nodes and are operating in a trusted operation mode while node is operating in a normal operation mode. At a different time when the network is in a different state the nodes and may be operating in normal operation mode. Likewise at a different time the node may then be operating in a trusted operation mode.

Alternatively in an embodiment only the nodes in the secure communication link that are at the edges of the network e.g. the node coupled to the first eNB and the node coupled to the second eNB operate in the trusted operation mode while the other nodes in the secure communication link between the two edge nodes may operate in the normal operation mode. In an embodiment the communication link between the edge nodes may be established by a virtual private network VPN resource within the network .

The network comprises a plurality of nodes such as the nodes and . The network may comprise other nodes servers and devices unrelated to the secure short message transmission communications taught by the present disclosure. Some nodes may operate in trusted operation mode such as the nodes and which are denoted with the letter T or not in trusted operation mode or normal operation mode such as the node which is denoted by the letter N. The nodes may be routers or other devices suitable for implementing the set up of the trusted communication link from the first UE and the second UE .

The enhanced node Bs may provide a wireless communication link to the first and second UEs respectively. In an embodiment the eNBs may provide a wireless communication link to the UEs according to one or more of a code division multiple access CDMA wireless protocol a global system for mobile communications GSM wireless protocol a long term evolution LTE wireless protocol a worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX wireless protocol a WiFi protocol a Bluetooth protocol or another wireless communication protocol. While two UEs one network and two eNBs are illustrated in it is understood that the system may comprise any number of UEs network and eNBs . It is understood that in an embodiment the eNB may be a base transceiver station BTS .

The second UE may receive messages from the first UE . In an embodiment the second UE may validate that messages received from the first UE are from the first UE and have been transmitted over the trusted communication link. The first UE and the second UE may be communicatively coupled via the network . The network may be a private communication network a public communication network or a combination thereof. In an embodiment the second UE may send secure short messages to the first UE as described herein for sending secure messages from the first UE to the second UE . Additionally in an embodiment the communication terminal executing the short message application may send secure short messages to the first UE as described herein for sending secure messages from the first UE to the second UE . In an embodiment the first UE may communicate with the communication terminal without going through the second UE . The communication terminal may be a UE like the second UE or it may be a server that executes an application such as the short message application that is suitable for implementation of trusted communication such as the communicative coupling between the first UE and the second UE .

In an embodiment the processing application is executed by the processor of the first UE . The processing application establishes the trusted communication link to the second UE . The trusted communication link may be a temporary trusted communication pathway that is comprised of the plurality of nodes operating in trusted operation mode such as the nodes and that are a part of the network . The processing application may desire to send the validation message and the short message over a trusted pathway to the second UE in order to protect the contents of the short message from outside parties that may spy on the short message . If the processing application is unable to establish the trusted communication link the processing application may not transmit the short message to prevent the contents of the short message from being spied on by outside parties. In an embodiment the validation message may be used by the processing application to establish the trusted communication link to the second UE . In an embodiment the validation message may be sent to the communication terminal directly and avoid sending the validation message to the second UE all together. The validation message may be sent to the first node which is operating in trusted operation mode and inform the node to transfer the validation message to the next node that is operating in trusted operation mode such as the node . The validation message if sent to a normal node such as the node may indicate to the normal node that it should turn on trusted operation mode like the nodes and and not to send the validation message until the trusted operation mode has been established and confirmed. In an embodiment the short message may be a short message service SMS message a multimedia message service MMS message an instant message IM message or another kind of short message.

Once a trusted communication link to the second UE from the first UE has been established the processing application may send the validation message to the second UE so that secure communication between the first UE and the second UE is confirmed and validated. The validation message may comprise a passcode that the second UE may use to validate that the validation message is a message that is sent from the processing application . The passcode may be a security token a personal identification number PIN or another form of security measure for the second UE to use to validate the source of the validation message and whether or not the source is a trusted source. In an embodiment the communication terminal may be able to validate the validation message itself. The validation message may be tagged by each of the plurality of nodes operating in trusted operation mode such as the nodes and that it passes through over the communication link from the processing application to the second UE . The validation message may also be tagged by the first UE and the second UE or the communication terminal . These compiled tags comprise an aggregate security signature. The contents of the aggregate security signature may comprise information of the round trips that messages between the processing application and the second UE when messages are delivered and or time stamps that show when the message was received by each of the plurality of nodes operating in trusted operation mode such as the nodes and payloads that are sent and received via the communication link identities of the parties involved in the transaction and other factors and aspects that may be germane to the aggregate security signature. The information in the aggregate security is stored to the trust log by the processing application .

The processing application receives the validation message back from the second UE via the communication link. The validation message comprises the aggregate security signature that shows that the validation message was read and validated by the second UE . The processing application may store the content of the aggregate security signature to the trust log . By storing the information of the aggregate security signature to the trust log questions concerning whether the information was exchanged or not can be confirmed by referring to the trust log . This provides protection or indemnification for companies in case another company questions the validity of an exchange and that it occurred in trust.

The second UE returns the validation message to the first UE along the same communication link which it determines from the aggregate security signature. With the communication link established and validity of both the first UE and the second UE confirmed the first UE sends the short message over the communication link to the second UE . The short message comprises a payload that the second UE may want. The payload may comprise one of a message statistics media content other content that is germane to the first UE and the second UE . After sending the short message the processing application tears down the communication link wherein nodes such as the nodes and that are operating in trusted operation mode are instructed to return to normal operation mode like the node after the short message has been sent to the second UE .

In an example of the use of secure short message transmission a bank employee associated with the first UE e.g. the bank employee is the user of the UE and is the subscriber associated with a wireless communication service provided to the UE may wish to remotely access confidential information from the bank via a computer. The user logs in to the bank system providing a user identity and a password. This may be considered to be a first factor of authentication something that the bank employee knows. To provide greater confidence and security the bank system may desire to challenge the bank employee to provide a second factor of authentication to obtain access.

The bank system via a short message application represented by the second UE or the short message application of the communication terminal sends a short message containing a string of alphanumeric characters randomly generated by the bank system. The short message is sent from the second UE or the communication terminal to the first UE using the secure short message transmission system and method described above. At the same time the bank system challenges the bank employee to enter in a user interface screen on the computer a character string sent to the UE of record for this bank employee. The employee opens the short message on his or her UE reads the character string and enters the character string into the challenge input window on the computer screen. The bank system verifies the returned character string and grants access to the bank employee s computer. This may be referred to as a second authentication factor and may be said to correspond to something the bank employee has or possesses. The thing the employee has is his or her private or enterprise provided UE . To hack into the bank system a cybercriminal would need the something known by the bank employee the user identity and password and would need the something possessed by the bank employee the UE associated to the bank employee.

In a substantially similar system to the system illustrated in is disclosed. The substantially similar system comprises all of the components of the system . There is however a small difference in the communication pathway represented from the first user equipment UE to the second UE or the communication terminal . The trusted communication pathway shows that the first node that is communicatively coupled with the first enhanced node B eNB is a node that is operating in trusted operation mode but the next node the node is operating in a normal operating mode and the node after that is also operating in a normal operation mode before reaching the node which is operating in a trusted operation mode. This iteration of the communication pathway illustrates that so long as the first and last node on the communication pathway are operating in trusted operation mode the communication pathway is still secure as the nodes and of the network are inherently trusted. The inherent trust may be established through the use of encrypted tunneling communication links within the network . Alternatively the inherent trust may result from the security inherent in the network e.g. the network may be deemed unhackable or otherwise impervious to unauthorized intrusion . This promotes the set up of multiple communication pathways between the first UE and the second UE or the communication terminal .

In a method is described. At block a user equipment UE establishes a communication link from the first UE to a communication terminal. At block the UE sends a validation message to the communication terminal over the communication link wherein a passcode is appended to the validation message sent to the communication terminal. The passcode may be used by the communication terminal to validate that the message came from a trusted location. The passcode may also be used as a security measure for the UE to validate the communication terminal. At block the UE receives the validation message back from the communication terminal via the communication link wherein the received validation message has an appended aggregate security signature on the message that shows that the message was read and validated by the communication terminal. At block the UE sends a short message over the communication link to the communication terminal. At block the UE tears down the communication link.

In a method is described. At block a user equipment UE establishes a communication link from the UE to a communication terminal wherein the communication link comprises a plurality of nodes operating in trusted operation mode. At block the UE sends a validation message to the communication terminal over the communication link wherein a passcode is appended to the validation message sent to the communication terminal wherein the validation message is tagged by each of the nodes that it passes through over the communication link from the UE to the communication terminal wherein the compiled tags comprises an aggregate security signature. At block the UE receives the validation message back from the communication terminal via the communication link wherein the validation messages comprises the appended security signature that shows that the message was read and validated by the communication terminal wherein the validation message returns to the UE along the same communication link. At block the UE sends a short message over the communication link from the UE to the communication terminal. At block the UE tears down the communication link.

The DSP or some other form of controller or central processing unit operates to control the various components of the UE in accordance with embedded software or firmware stored in memory or stored in memory contained within the DSP itself. In addition to the embedded software or firmware the DSP may execute other applications stored in the memory or made available via information carrier media such as portable data storage media like the removable memory card or via wired or wireless network communications. The application software may comprise a compiled set of machine readable instructions that configure the DSP to provide the desired functionality or the application software may be high level software instructions to be processed by an interpreter or compiler to indirectly configure the DSP .

The DSP may communicate with a wireless network via the analog baseband processing unit . In some embodiments the communication may provide Internet connectivity enabling a user to gain access to content on the Internet and to send and receive e mail or text messages. The input output interface interconnects the DSP and various memories and interfaces. The memory and the removable memory card may provide software and data to configure the operation of the DSP . Among the interfaces may be the USB port and the infrared port . The USB port may enable the UE to function as a peripheral device to exchange information with a personal computer or other computer system. The infrared port and other optional ports such as a Bluetooth interface or an IEEE 802.11 compliant wireless interface may enable the UE to communicate wirelessly with other nearby handsets and or wireless base stations. In an embodiment the UE may comprise a near field communication NFC transceiver. The NFC transceiver may be used to complete payment transactions with point of sale terminals or other communications exchanges. In an embodiment the UE may comprise a radio frequency identify RFID reader and or writer device.

The switches may couple to the DSP via the input output interface to provide one mechanism for the user to provide input to the UE . Alternatively one or more of the switches may be coupled to a motherboard of the UE and or to components of the UE via a different path e.g. not via the input output interface for example coupled to a power control circuit power button of the UE . The touch screen display is another input mechanism which further displays text and or graphics to the user. The touch screen LCD controller couples the DSP to the touch screen display . The GPS receiver is coupled to the DSP to decode global positioning system signals thereby enabling the UE to determine its position.

It is understood that by programming and or loading executable instructions onto the computer system at least one of the CPU the RAM and the ROM are changed transforming the computer system in part into a particular machine or apparatus having the novel functionality taught by the present disclosure. It is fundamental to the electrical engineering and software engineering arts that functionality that can be implemented by loading executable software into a computer can be converted to a hardware implementation by well known design rules. Decisions between implementing a concept in software versus hardware typically hinge on considerations of stability of the design and numbers of units to be produced rather than any issues involved in translating from the software domain to the hardware domain. Generally a design that is still subject to frequent change may be preferred to be implemented in software because re spinning a hardware implementation is more expensive than re spinning a software design. Generally a design that is stable that will be produced in large volume may be preferred to be implemented in hardware for example in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC because for large production runs the hardware implementation may be less expensive than the software implementation. Often a design may be developed and tested in a software form and later transformed by well known design rules to an equivalent hardware implementation in an application specific integrated circuit that hardwires the instructions of the software. In the same manner as a machine controlled by a new ASIC is a particular machine or apparatus likewise a computer that has been programmed and or loaded with executable instructions may be viewed as a particular machine or apparatus.

Additionally after the system is turned on or booted the CPU may execute a computer program or application. For example the CPU may execute software or firmware stored in the ROM or stored in the RAM . In some cases on boot and or when the application is initiated the CPU may copy the application or portions of the application from the secondary storage to the RAM or to memory space within the CPU itself and the CPU may then execute instructions that the application is comprised of. In some cases the CPU may copy the application or portions of the application from memory accessed via the network connectivity devices or via the I O devices to the RAM or to memory space within the CPU and the CPU may then execute instructions that the application is comprised of. During execution an application may load instructions into the CPU for example load some of the instructions of the application into a cache of the CPU . In some contexts an application that is executed may be said to configure the CPU to do something e.g. to configure the CPU to perform the function or functions promoted by the subject application. When the CPU is configured in this way by the application the CPU becomes a specific purpose computer or a specific purpose machine.

The secondary storage is typically comprised of one or more disk drives or tape drives and is used for non volatile storage of data and as an over flow data storage device if RAM is not large enough to hold all working data. Secondary storage may be used to store programs which are loaded into RAM when such programs are selected for execution. The ROM is used to store instructions and perhaps data which are read during program execution. ROM is a non volatile memory device which typically has a small memory capacity relative to the larger memory capacity of secondary storage . The RAM is used to store volatile data and perhaps to store instructions. Access to both ROM and RAM is typically faster than to secondary storage . The secondary storage the RAM and or the ROM may be referred to in some contexts as computer readable storage media and or non transitory computer readable media.

I O devices may include printers video monitors liquid crystal displays LCDs touch screen displays keyboards keypads switches dials mice track balls voice recognizers card readers paper tape readers or other well known input devices.

The network connectivity devices may take the form of modems modem banks Ethernet cards universal serial bus USB interface cards serial interfaces token ring cards fiber distributed data interface FDDI cards wireless local area network WLAN cards radio transceiver cards that promote radio communications using protocols such as code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX near field communications NFC radio frequency identity RFID and or other air interface protocol radio transceiver cards and other well known network devices. These network connectivity devices may enable the processor to communicate with the Internet or one or more intranets. With such a network connection it is contemplated that the processor might receive information from the network or might output information to the network in the course of performing the above described method steps. Such information which is often represented as a sequence of instructions to be executed using processor may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave.

Such information which may include data or instructions to be executed using processor for example may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data baseband signal or signal embodied in a carrier wave. The baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave or other types of signals currently used or hereafter developed may be generated according to several methods well known to one skilled in the art. The baseband signal and or signal embedded in the carrier wave may be referred to in some contexts as a transitory signal.

The processor executes instructions codes computer programs scripts which it accesses from hard disk floppy disk optical disk these various disk based systems may all be considered secondary storage flash drive ROM RAM or the network connectivity devices . While only one processor is shown multiple processors may be present. Thus while instructions may be discussed as executed by a processor the instructions may be executed simultaneously serially or otherwise executed by one or multiple processors. Instructions codes computer programs scripts and or data that may be accessed from the secondary storage for example hard drives floppy disks optical disks and or other device the ROM and or the RAM may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory instructions and or non transitory information.

In an embodiment the computer system may comprise two or more computers in communication with each other that collaborate to perform a task. For example but not by way of limitation an application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of the instructions of the application. Alternatively the data processed by the application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of different portions of a data set by the two or more computers. In an embodiment virtualization software may be employed by the computer system to provide the functionality of a number of servers that is not directly bound to the number of computers in the computer system . For example virtualization software may provide twenty virtual servers on four physical computers. In an embodiment the functionality disclosed above may be provided by executing the application and or applications in a cloud computing environment. Cloud computing may comprise providing computing services via a network connection using dynamically scalable computing resources. Cloud computing may be supported at least in part by virtualization software. A cloud computing environment may be established by an enterprise and or may be hired on an as needed basis from a third party provider. Some cloud computing environments may comprise cloud computing resources owned and operated by the enterprise as well as cloud computing resources hired and or leased from a third party provider.

In an embodiment some or all of the functionality disclosed above may be provided as a computer program product. The computer program product may comprise one or more computer readable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied therein to implement the functionality disclosed above. The computer program product may comprise data structures executable instructions and other computer usable program code. The computer program product may be embodied in removable computer storage media and or non removable computer storage media. The removable computer readable storage medium may comprise without limitation a paper tape a magnetic tape magnetic disk an optical disk a solid state memory chip for example analog magnetic tape compact disk read only memory CD ROM disks floppy disks jump drives digital cards multimedia cards and others. The computer program product may be suitable for loading by the computer system at least portions of the contents of the computer program product to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system . The processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures in part by directly accessing the computer program product for example by reading from a CD ROM disk inserted into a disk drive peripheral of the computer system . Alternatively the processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures by remotely accessing the computer program product for example by downloading the executable instructions and or data structures from a remote server through the network connectivity devices . The computer program product may comprise instructions that promote the loading and or copying of data data structures files and or executable instructions to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system .

In some contexts the secondary storage the ROM and the RAM may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium or a computer readable storage media. A dynamic RAM embodiment of the RAM likewise may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium in that while the dynamic RAM receives electrical power and is operated in accordance with its design for example during a period of time during which the computer system is turned on and operational the dynamic RAM stores information that is written to it. Similarly the processor may comprise an internal RAM an internal ROM a cache memory and or other internal non transitory storage blocks sections or components that may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory computer readable media or computer readable storage media.

While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure it should be understood that the disclosed systems and methods may be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the intention is not to be limited to the details given herein. For example the various elements or components may be combined or integrated in another system or certain features may be omitted or not implemented.

Also techniques systems subsystems and methods described and illustrated in the various embodiments as discrete or separate may be combined or integrated with other systems modules techniques or methods without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Other items shown or discussed as directly coupled or communicating with each other may be indirectly coupled or communicating through some interface device or intermediate component whether electrically mechanically or otherwise. Other examples of changes substitutions and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled in the art and could be made without departing from the spirit and scope disclosed herein.

