---

title: Delivering offers
abstract: A method and system for delivering offers is provided. The method includes enabling for a user via a device, a Web browser and an associated URL. A processor determines a manufacturer and model of the device and that the device is associated with a shared device list. A user agent receives the manufacturer and model of the device and the processor transmits the user agent, the manufacturer and model of the device, and the associated URL. The manufacturer and model of the hardware device is extracted from the user agent and a rules engine is evaluated with respect to the manufacturer and model of the device. Specified content associated with the device is determined based on results of the evaluation. The specified content is transmitted to the Web browser.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09471930&OS=09471930&RS=09471930
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09471930
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151022
---
This application is a continuation application claiming priority to Ser. No. 14 594 647 filed Jan. 12 2015 which is a continuation application claiming priority to Ser. No. 13 623 176 filed Sep. 20 2012 no U.S. Pat. No. 8 977 707 issued Mar. 10 2015.

One or more embodiments of the invention relate generally to a method for targeting offers and in particular to a method and associated system for delivering offers based on an initiating hardware device.

Presenting information to users typically includes an inaccurate process with little flexibility. Allowing presenters to manage the information may include a complicated process that may be time consuming and require a large amount of resources. Accordingly there exists a need in the art to overcome at least some of the deficiencies and limitations described herein above.

A first embodiment of the invention provides a method including enabling for a user via a hardware device by a computer processor of a computing system a Web browser and an associated URL determining by the computer processor executing a content adaption browser plug in of the Web browser that the hardware device is associated with a shared device list determining by the computer processor executing the Web browser a manufacturer and model of the hardware device retrieving from the Web browser by a user agent executed by the computer processor the manufacturer and model of the hardware device transmitting to a content adaption engine by the computer processor executing the Web browser the user agent the manufacturer and model of the hardware device and the associated URL extracting from the user agent by the computer processor executing the content adaption engine the manufacturer and model of the hardware device evaluating by the computer processor executing the content adaption engine a rules engine with respect to the manufacturer and model of the hardware device determining based on results of the evaluating by the computer processor executing the content adaption engine specified content associated with the hardware device and transmitting by the computer processor the specified content to the Web browser.

A second embodiment of the invention provides a computer program product including a computer readable storage device storing a computer readable program code the computer readable program code including an algorithm that when executed by a computer processor of computing system implements a method the method including enabling for a user via a hardware device by the computer processor a Web browser and an associated URL determining by the computer processor executing a content adaption browser plug in of the Web browser that the hardware device is associated with a shared device list determining by the computer processor executing the Web browser a manufacturer and model of the hardware device retrieving from the Web browser by a user agent executed by the computer processor the manufacturer and model of the hardware device transmitting to a content adaption engine by the computer processor executing the Web browser the user agent the manufacturer and model of the hardware device and the associated URL extracting from the user agent by the computer processor executing the content adaption engine the manufacturer and model of the hardware device evaluating by the computer processor executing the content adaption engine a rules engine with respect to the manufacturer and model of the hardware device determining based on results of the evaluating by the computer processor executing the content adaption engine specified content associated with the hardware device and transmitting by the computer processor the specified content to the Web browser.

A third embodiment of the invention provides a computer system including a computer processor coupled to a computer readable memory unit the memory unit including instructions that when executed by the computer processor implements a method including enabling for a user via a hardware device by the computer processor a Web browser and an associated URL determining by the computer processor executing a content adaption browser plug in of the Web browser that the hardware device is associated with a shared device list determining by the computer processor executing the Web browser a manufacturer and model of the hardware device retrieving from the Web browser by a user agent executed by the computer processor the manufacturer and model of the hardware device transmitting to a content adaption engine by the computer processor executing the Web browser the user agent the manufacturer and model of the hardware device and the associated URL extracting from the user agent by the computer processor executing the content adaption engine the manufacturer and model of the hardware device evaluating by the computer processor executing the content adaption engine a rules engine with respect to the manufacturer and model of the hardware device determining based on results of the evaluating by the computer processor executing the content adaption engine specified content associated with hardware device and transmitting by the computer processor the specified content to the Web browser.

A fourth embodiment of the invention provides a process for supporting computing infrastructure the process including providing at least one support service for at least one of creating integrating hosting maintaining and deploying computer readable code in a computer system including a computer processor wherein instructions contained in the code when executed by the computer processor performs a method including enabling for a user via a hardware device by the computer processor a Web browser and an associated URL determining by the computer processor executing a content adaption browser plug in of the Web browser that the hardware device is associated with a shared device list determining by the computer processor executing the Web browser a manufacturer and model of the hardware device retrieving from the Web browser by a user agent executed by the computer processor the manufacturer and model of the hardware device transmitting to a content adaption engine by the computer processor executing the Web browser the user agent the manufacturer and model of the hardware device and the associated URL extracting from the user agent by the computer processor executing the content adaption engine the manufacturer and model of the hardware device evaluating by the computer processor executing the content adaption engine a rules engine with respect to the manufacturer and model of the hardware device determining based on results of the evaluating by the computer processor executing the content adaption engine specified content associated with hardware device and transmitting by the computer processor the specified content to the Web browser.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention can be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention can take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that can all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention can take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s can be utilized. A computer readable storage medium can be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium can include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium can be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention can be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code can execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer.

Aspects of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions can be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions can also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions can also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams can represent a module segment or portion of code which includes one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block can occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession can in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks can sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms includes and or including when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

System allows a browser extension component and a content engine component to present targeted advertisements and offers to the user based on a hardware device. System enables a list of websites to read system manufacturer and model information from a hardware device such that when a user visits a Website on a list targeted advertisements and discounts are delivered to the user. Alternatively a content engine component may customize advertisement content for delivery to the user based on make and model of the user s hardware device.

System of includes client hardware devices . . . connected through a network to a client computing system . Network may include any type of network including inter alia a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet a wireless network etc. Hardware devices . . . may include any type of hardware device including inter alia a cellular telephone a tablet computer a PDA a laptop computer a desktop computer an audio video player etc. Client computing system includes a memory system that includes a software application for delivering targeted advertisements and offers to a user based on a hardware device e.g. hardware devices . . . belonging to the user.

Software enables hardware detection information to be obtained through a native browser plug in that retrieves system manufacturer and model information. The native browser plug in may be based on a Netscape plug in application programming interface NPAPI a cross platform plug in architecture an Active X plugin for a Web browser etc. Additionally software application enables a process for using a hash to obscure a mac address or key shipped with a hardware device. In order to ensure that user information is secure the hardware device manufacturer and model information may be encrypted over SSL. If it is determined that a user Web session is not secure the hardware device manufacturer and model information is not transmitted over the Web.

System executes software application for performing a process for recognizing that a user is using a specific type of hardware device and in response specified offers are presented to the user. For example 

User agent builder component packages hardware device manufacturer and model information into an HTTP header of a user agent. An algorithm enabled by client server model initializes by when a user opens a Web browser and enters Website URL into the Web browser. Browser plug in extension component intercepts the Web browser request and determines if the Website is authorized to transmit hardware device manufacturer and model information. If authorized browser plug in extension component calls a native plug in to request the hardware device manufacturer and model information. Browser plug in extension component packages the hardware device manufacturer and model information into a user agent and transmits a request to server system .

Server system includes a content adaption engine that includes a user agent interpreter a content adapter rules engine based on hardware device manufacturer and model information and a content adaption render . Content adaption engine receives a request and determines if the request includes a system user agent. If so the hardware device manufacturer and model information is extracted from a user agent header and the hardware device manufacturer and model information is adapted based on the information and rendered to the user. The following description illustrates an implementation example for delivering targeted advertisements and offers to a user based on a hardware device belonging to the user 

As a first step a user opens a Web browser and enters a Website. A site list manager determines that the user s hardware device is an available device on an authorized list. A browser plug in calls a native plug in to request a hardware device manufacturer and model information for the user s hardware device. The Web browser adds the hardware device manufacturer and model information to a user agent HTTP header and transmits a requested URL and the user agent to a server for the Website. The server extracts the hardware device manufacturer and model information from the user agent and adapts the hardware device manufacturer and model information. The adapted hardware device manufacturer and model information is returned to the Web browser.

Still yet any of the components of the present invention could be created integrated hosted maintained deployed managed serviced etc. by a service supplier who offers to deliver targeted advertisements and offers to a user based on a hardware device belonging to the user. Thus the present invention discloses a process for deploying creating integrating hosting maintaining and or integrating computing infrastructure including integrating computer readable code into the computer system wherein the code in combination with the computer system is capable of performing a method for delivering targeted advertisements and offers to a user based on a hardware device belonging to the user. In another embodiment the invention provides a business method that performs the process steps of the invention on a subscription advertising and or fee basis. That is a service supplier such as a Solution Integrator could offer to deliver targeted advertisements and offers to a user based on a hardware device belonging to the user. In this case the service supplier can create maintain support etc. a computer infrastructure that performs the process steps of the invention for one or more customers. In return the service supplier can receive payment from the customer s under a subscription and or fee agreement and or the service supplier can receive payment from the sale of advertising content to one or more third parties.

While shows the computer system as a particular configuration of hardware and software any configuration of hardware and software as would be known to a person of ordinary skill in the art may be utilized for the purposes stated supra in conjunction with the particular computer system of . For example the memory devices and may be portions of a single memory device rather than separate memory devices.

While embodiments of the present invention have been described herein for purposes of illustration many modifications and changes will become apparent to those skilled in the art. Accordingly the appended claims are intended to encompass all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit and scope of this invention.

