---

title: Hardware root of trust (HROT) for internet protocol (IP) communications
abstract: A communication system determines Hardware Root-of-Trust (HRoT) trust for Internet Protocol (IP) communications. A probe transfers probe packets having an originating IP address, destination IP address, and IP HRoT reporting parameter. IP routers receive the probe packets through input interfaces and route the probe packets from the input interfaces to output interfaces. Responsive to the IP HRoT reporting parameter, the IP routers encode router Hardware Identifiers (HW IDs) for transfer in probe responses to the probe system. The probe responses indicate the encoded router HW IDs, IP input interfaces, and IP output interfaces. The probe system processes the probe responses to identify an end-to-end IP communication path for the originating IP address and destination IP address based on the IP interfaces. The network probe system determines hardware trust status for the end-to-end IP communication path based on the encoded IP router HW IDs.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09509587&OS=09509587&RS=09509587
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 09509587
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150319
---
Internet Protocol IP communication systems transfer IP packets among user devices and intelligent machines to provide data communication services like internet access file transfers media streaming and user messaging. The IP communication systems are implementing several technologies in a contemporaneous manner to improve service delivery. These technologies include systems for Hardware Root of Trust HRoT Network Function Virtualization NFV and Software Defined Networks SDNs .

The HRoT systems ensure network security and control. The HRoT systems maintain physical separation between trusted hardware and untrusted hardware. The HRoT systems control software access to the trusted hardware but allow interaction between open and trusted software components through secure bus interfaces memories and switching circuits. The HRoT systems establish HRoT with one another by using secret HRoT keys physically embedded in their hardware to generate hash results for remote verification by other HRoT systems that know the secret HRoT keys and hash algorithms.

The NFV systems increase capacity and efficiency. NFV computer platforms run hypervisor software to execute various software modules during sets of processing time cycles referred to as NFV time slices. The software modules often comprise virtual machines such as virtual IP routers Layer 2 switches and the like. Different networks are mapped to different NFV time slices to isolate the networks from one another.

The SDN systems improve service provisioning and management. SDNs have separate control and data planes. SDN controllers interact with SDN applications to control SDN data plane machines. The SDN applications process application layer data to direct the SDN controllers and in response the SDN controllers direct the SDN data plane machines to process and transfer IP packets. The SDN applications may comprise gateways servers and the like.

Unfortunately the HRoT systems NFV systems and SDN systems are not effectively integrated together within IP communication networks.

A communication system determines Hardware Root of Trust HRoT trust for Internet Protocol IP communications. A probe transfers probe packets having an originating IP address destination IP address and IP HRoT reporting parameter. IP routers receive the probe packets through input interfaces and route the probe packets from the input interfaces to output interfaces. Responsive to the IP HRoT reporting parameter the IP routers encode router Hardware Identifiers HW IDs for transfer in probe responses to the probe system. The probe responses indicate the encoded router HW IDs IP input interfaces and IP output interfaces. The probe system processes the probe responses to identify an end to end IP communication path for the originating IP address and destination IP address based on the IP interfaces. The network probe system determines hardware trust status for the end to end IP communication path based on the encoded IP router HW IDs.

IP interfaces and comprise physical Layer 2 connections such as Ethernet Software Defined Network SDN Long Term Evolution LTE Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification DOCSIS Time Division Multiplex TDM Synchronous Optical Network SONET or some other data link interface. In NFV environments the physical Layer 2 connection comprises virtual IP links over physical NFV server circuitry. Input interfaces in IP router are coupled to network probe system and IP end point over Layer 2 communication systems. Output interfaces in IP router are coupled to network probe system and IP end point over Layer 2 communication systems.

IP end points comprise computers servers phones or some other type of intelligent machine. Network probe systems comprise computer systems that are also IP end points. IP routers comprise computer systems that are coupled to one another over Layer 2 communication systems. One or more of IP routers network probe systems and IP end points may be virtual machines executing on NFV computer systems. In particular output interface in IP router is coupled to input interface in IP router . Output interface in IP router is coupled to input interface in IP router . Output interface in IP router is coupled to input interface in IP router . Output interface in IP router is coupled to input interface in IP router . Output interface in IP router is coupled to input interface in IP router .

IP routers share and maintain routing information. IP routers receive IP packets having IP addresses into input interfaces . IP routers transfer the IP packets from input interfaces to output interfaces over internal communication circuitry based on the IP packet addresses and the routing information. Thus end point systems may obtain IP addresses and use these IP addresses to exchange IP packets over an end to end IP communication path formed by IP routers .

IP routers execute HRoT software to establish and maintain hardware trust for their circuitry memory and communication interfaces. For example IP router reads its physically embedded HW ID and generates a trust value using a one way hash on HW ID and a random number. IP router transfers the trust value to network probe system . Network probe system then remotely verifies HRoT for IP router by generating its own trust value with HW ID and the random number.

Data communication system performs an IP probe process before IP address pairs are used on demand by schedule or on some other basis. For example probe systems may comprise a Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol DHCP system that probes for HRoT using the same IP address prefixes as endpoints . To initiate the probe process network probe system transfers network IP probe packets that have an originating IP address a destination IP address and an IP HRoT reporting parameter. In some examples the IP HRoT reporting parameter comprises a particular IP destination port number and or IP source port number. In other examples the IP HRoT reporting parameter comprises a special IP HRoT. The HRoT reporting parameter may also comprise a flag or value placed in the IP header portion of the probe packets.

IP router receives the network probe packets through IP input interfaces and routes the probe packets from IP input interfaces to IP output interfaces based on the IP addresses and its routing information. Note that the probe packets having the same address pairs take different physical routes based on variables in the routing information. For example output interface may become heavily loaded so router begins to use output interfaces and to handle the traffic burst.

Responsive to the IP HRoT reporting parameter IP router encodes its HW ID and transfers a probe response packet to network probe system that indicate encoded HW ID for IP router . The probe response packet also indicates the IP addresses IP input interfaces and IP output interfaces that were used to transfer the network probe packets having the HRoT reporting parameter.

In a similar manner IP routers receive the network probe packets through IP input interfaces and and route the probe packets to IP output interfaces and based on the IP addresses and routing information. Responsive to the IP HRoT reporting parameter IP routers encode their HW IDs and transfer probe response packets to network probe system that indicate encoded HW IDs for IP routers . The probe response packets also indicate the IP addresses IP input interfaces and and IP output interfaces and that were used to transfer the network probe packets. Network probe system also receives the network probe packets from IP output interfaces and responsive to the IP HRoT reporting parameter returns a probe response packet to network probe system indicating that the IP end point has been reached.

Network probe system processes the probe response packets to identify an end to end IP communication path for the originating IP address and the destination IP address based on IP input interfaces and and IP output interfaces and . Network probe system then determines hardware trust status for the end to end IP communication path formed by interfaces and based on the encoded IP router HW IDs for the associated IP routers .

Network probe system uses network topology data to associate the specific input and output interfaces with their routers and their external Layer 2 connections. For example the network topology data would associate output interface with IP router and with input interface based on the Layer 2 data link. The topology data would associate input interface with router . The network topology data may also be used to verify hardware trust. For example network probe system can verify that all reported IP output interfaces are coupled to one of the reported IP input interfaces or to an IP endpoint. If network probe system detects that one of the reported IP output interfaces is not properly coupled like if output interface was reported then network probe system could determine that the IP communications path using the IP addresses is untrusted at the hardware level.

In some examples Layer 2 devices like Ethernet switches and SDN IP flow controllers also report their HW IDs and input output interfaces for the probe packets responsive to the HRoT reporting parameter. Network probe system then determines HRoT for the IP communication path at Layer 2 in addition to Layer 3.

In some examples network probe system transfers an NFV reporting parameter in the network IP probe packets along with the HRoT reporting parameter. The NFV reporting parameter may also comprise or share a particular IP destination port number and or IP source port number. IP routers receive the network probe packets and responsive to the NFV reporting parameter IP routers identify their NFV time slices used to transfer the network probe packets. IP routers transfer their NFV time slice data for the IP address pair in the probe response packets to network probe system .

Network probe system processes the probe response packets to verify the proper NFV time slices for the end to end IP communication path for the originating IP address and the destination IP address. Typically network probe system uses network topology data to associate the routers and their target NFV time slices. If network probe system identifies a reported NFV time slice that is not a proper target slice then network probe system determines that the IP communications path using the IP addresses is untrusted at the NFV level.

Referring to an exemplary operation of data communication system is described. Network probe system transfers network IP probe packets that have an originating IP address a destination IP address and an IP HRoT reporting parameter . IP routers receive the network probe packets through their IP input interfaces and route the probe packets to their IP output interfaces based on at least the destination IP address . Responsive to the IP HRoT reporting parameter IP routers encode their Hardware IDs HW IDs and transfer probe response packets to network probe system that indicate the encoded HW IDs for IP routers . The probe response packets also indicate the IP input interfaces and the IP output interfaces that were used to transfer the network probe packets having the HRoT reporting parameter . In some examples network probe system receives the network probe packets and returns probe response packets to network probe system indicating that the IP end point has been reached.

Network probe system processes the probe response packets to identify an end to end IP communication path for the originating IP address and the destination IP address based on the IP input interfaces and the IP output interfaces . Network probe system determines hardware trust status for the end to end IP communication path formed by the input and output interfaces based on the encoded HW IDs for IP routers .

Referring to another exemplary operation of data communication system is described although system may vary from this example. Network probe system performs an HRoT NFV process on IP address pairs. For example network probe system may verify HRoT and NFV trust for all IP address pairs in an IP address block before individual address are allocated from the block and current IP addresses are de allocated for HRoT and NFV verification .

To initiate the probe process network probe system transfers network IP probe packets that have an originating IP address and port number and a destination IP address and port number where the port number combination represents an HRoT and NFV reporting parameter to IP routers . IP router receives the network probe packets routes the probe packets to routers based on the IP addresses and routing information. Responsive to the IP HRoT NFV reporting parameters IP router encodes its HW ID and transfers probe response packets to network probe system that indicate encoded HW ID for IP router . The probe response packets also indicate the IP addresses communication interfaces and NFV Time Slices TS used by router to transfer the network probe packets.

IP router receives some of the network probe packets and routes the probe packets to router based on the IP addresses and routing information. Responsive to the IP HRoT NFV reporting parameters IP router encodes its HW ID and transfers probe response packets to network probe system that indicate encoded HW ID for IP router . The probe response packets also indicate the IP addresses communication interfaces and NFV Time Slices TS used by router to transfer the network probe packets.

IP router receives some of the network probe packets and routes the probe packets to router based on the IP addresses and routing information. Responsive to the IP HRoT NFV reporting parameters IP router encodes its HW ID and transfers probe response packets to network probe system that indicate encoded HW ID for IP router . The probe response packets also indicate the IP addresses communication interfaces and NFV Time Slices TS used by router to transfer the network probe packets.

IP router receives the network probe packets and routes the probe packets to network probe system based on the IP addresses and routing information. Responsive to the IP HRoT NFV reporting parameters IP router encodes its HW ID and transfers probe response packets to network probe system that indicate encoded HW ID for IP router . The probe response packets also indicate the IP addresses communication interfaces and NFV Time Slices TS used by router to transfer the network probe packets.

Network probe system also receives the network probe packets from router and returns probe response packets network probe system indicating that the IP end point has been reached.

Network probe system processes the probe response packets to identify an end to end IP communication path for the originating IP address and the destination IP address based on the reported IP input and output interfaces. Network probe system determines the hardware trust status for the end to end IP communication path based on the HW IDs for IP routers and the IP end point reached messages.

Network probe system uses network topology data to associate the specific input and output interfaces with their routers and their inter router connections. The network topology data is used to verify hardware trust. For example network probe system can use the topology data to verify that all reported IP output interfaces are linked to a reported input interface or endpoint. If network probe system detects that a reported IP output interface does not have a proper termination then network probe system determines that the IP communications path using the IP addresses is untrusted at the hardware level.

Network probe system also compares the NFV time slice data for routers to target NFV time slices in the network topology data. If network probe system detects that an improper time slice has been used then network probe system determines that the IP communications path using the IP addresses is untrusted at the NFV level.

Network probe system is coupled to input IP interface in IP router . Output IP interface in IP router is coupled to input Ethernet interface in Ethernet switch . Output Ethernet interface in Ethernet switch is coupled to input Ethernet interface in Ethernet switch . Output interface in Ethernet switch is coupled to input interface in IP router . Output interface in IP router is coupled to network probe system .

Network probe systems establish HRoT with one another. Network probe systems identify IP address pairs for HRoT verification. For example network probe systems may provide Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol DHCP services and rotate blocks of IP addresses through the HRoT verification process.

Network probe system transfers varying loads of IP network probe packets with one of the IP address pairs and with IP and Ethernet HRoT reporting parameters to IP router . In this example probe system transmits the IP network probe packets in Ethernet frames having an Ethernet HRoT reporting parameter. IP router receives network probe packets with the HRoT reporting parameters into input interface . IP router routes some of these IP packets to IP router through Ethernet switches . Responsive to the IP HRoT reporting parameter IP router encodes its HW ID and transfers probe response packets to network probe system . Responsive to the IP HRoT and or Ethernet HRoT reporting parameter from probe system IP router places an Ethernet HRoT reporting parameter in the Ethernet frames transporting the IP network probe packets to Ethernet switch .

For example the HRoT reporting parameter at the IP layer may comprise IP port combinations while the HRoT reporting parameter at the Ethernet layer comprises a special Ethertype data. In another example IP address prefix pools are associated with Ethernet MAC prefix pools and a combination of these IP and Ethernet prefixes represent the HRoT reporting parameter at both the IP and Ethernet layers.

Ethernet switch receives the Ethernet frames into input Ethernet interface that have Ethernet HRoT reporting parameters and that encapsulate IP network probe packets with the IP HRoT reporting parameters. Ethernet switch switches these Ethernet frames with IP probe packets to Ethernet output interface based on Ethernet addressing for the Layer 2 connection between IP routers . Responsive to the IP and or Ethernet HRoT reporting parameters Ethernet switch encodes its HW ID and transfers IP probe response packets to network probe system . The probe response packets also indicate Ethernet interfaces and that were used for the probe packet transfer.

Ethernet switch receives the Ethernet frames with the IP probe packets each having the HRoT reporting parameters into input Ethernet interface . Ethernet switch switches these Ethernet frames with the IP probe packets to Ethernet output interface based on Ethernet addressing for the Layer 2 connection between IP routers . Responsive to the IP and or Ethernet HRoT reporting parameters Ethernet switch encodes its HW ID and transfers IP probe response packets to network probe system . The probe response packets also indicate Ethernet interfaces and that were used for the IP probe packet transfer.

IP router receives the IP network probe packets with the HRoT reporting parameters into input interface . IP router routes these probe packets to network probe system . Responsive to the IP HRoT reporting parameters IP router encodes its HW ID and transfers IP probe response packets to network probe system . Network probe system also reports the IP communication path end point to network probe system responsive to the IP network probe packets.

Network probe system processes the probe response packets to identify an end to end IP communication path for the originating IP address and the destination IP address based on the string of IP and Ethernet interfaces and and the reports from IP end point probe system . Network probe system then determines hardware trust status for the end to end IP communication path formed by these interfaces based on the encoded HW IDs for the associated IP routers and Ethernet switches . Network probe system verifies that all reported IP and Ethernet interfaces are coupled per the network topology and use hardware with HRoT.

Referring to network probe system transfers varying loads of IP network probe packets to IP router with an IP address pair and IP Ethernet ENET HRoT reporting parameters. IP router routes some of these IP packets to IP router through Ethernet switches . Responsive to the IP HRoT reporting parameter IP router encodes and transfers its HW ID in probe response packets to network probe system that also indicate the IP interfaces used. Responsive to the IP HRoT reporting parameter IP router places an Ethernet ENET HRoT reporting parameter in the Ethernet frames transporting the IP network probe packets to Ethernet switch .

Ethernet switch receives the Ethernet frames that contain Ethernet HRoT reporting parameters and the IP network probe packets with the IP HRoT reporting parameters. Ethernet switch switches these Ethernet frames with the IP probe packets to Ethernet switch based on Ethernet addressing for the Layer 2 connection between IP routers . Responsive to the Ethernet HRoT reporting parameters Ethernet switch encodes its HW ID and transfers IP probe response packets to network probe system that indicate the HW ID and the Ethernet interfaces used.

Ethernet switch receives the Ethernet frames that contain Ethernet HRoT reporting parameters and the IP network probe packets with the IP HRoT reporting parameters. Ethernet switch switches these Ethernet frames with the IP probe packets to IP router based on Ethernet addressing for the Layer 2 connection between IP routers . Responsive to the Ethernet HRoT reporting parameters Ethernet switch encodes its HW ID and transfers IP probe response packets to network probe system that indicate the HW ID and the Ethernet interfaces used.

IP router receives the IP network probe packets with the HRoT reporting parameters. IP router routes these probe packets to network probe system . Responsive to the IP HRoT reporting parameters IP router encodes its HW ID and transfers IP probe response packets to network probe system indicating the encoded HW ID and the IP interfaces used.

Network probe system receives the IP network probe packets with the HRoT reporting parameters. Responsive to the IP network probe packets network probe system reports to network probe system that the end point for the IP communication path has been reached.

Network probe system processes the probe response packets to identify an end to end IP communication path for the originating IP address and the destination IP address based on the reports from routers Ethernet switches and probe system . Network probe system then determines hardware trust status for the end to end IP communication path formed by these interfaces based on the encoded HW IDs for the associated IP routers and Ethernet switches . Network probe system verifies that all reported IP and Ethernet interfaces are coupled per the network topology and use hardware with HRoT.

SDN flow controllers include respective SDN IP input interfaces and SDN IP output interfaces . SDN flow controllers include respective HW IDs . SDN flow controllers comprise physical IP routing machines that direct individual flows of IP packets from incoming interfaces to outgoing interfaces based on IP flow tables. SDN flow controllers may also apply packet level features such as header translation media transcoding payload inspection caching and the like based on the flow tables. The SDN controller VMs in NFV server use southbound SDN interfaces to load the flow tables in SDN flow controllers .

NFV server includes respective SDN IP input interfaces and SDN IP output interfaces . Output SDN IP interface in SDN flow controller is coupled to input SDN IP interface in NFV server . Output SDN IP interface in NFV server is coupled to input SDN IP interface in SDN flow controller . SDN IP interfaces and comprise physical SDN communication ports.

NFV server comprises Central Processing Units CPUs memory devices and communication circuitry to couple SDN IP input interfaces with SDN IP output interfaces . The communication circuitry and interfaces in NFV server may be similar to an SDN IP flow controller. The hardware in NFV server CPUs memory devices communication circuitry and the like has a physically embedded HW ID .

NFV server includes an HRoT system. The HRoT system includes portions of the circuitry memory and interfaces in NFV server . The HRoT system establishes and maintains physical control over software and data access to the hardware in NFV server . The HRoT system establishes the direct physical control by loading trust software during NFV server initialization. The HRoT system includes physical switching to couple and de couple select components in NFV server such as select CPUs memory devices interfaces and the like. The HRoT system may use the switching to read HW ID that is embedded within NFV server . The HRoT system exchanges trust data with other HRoT systems using a hash of HW ID to validate itself. The HRoT system hosts trust data to validate HRoT systems in SDN flow controllers .

NFV server has an NFV system comprising hypervisor software and context switching support in the CPUs and memory. The hypervisor software directs NFV server to operate in a virtualized manner to support the execution of virtual machines or containers in a multi threaded and time sliced manner. This particular example uses Virtual Machines VMs but containers could be used. The hypervisor software implements context switching to isolate virtual communication networks of VMs that are executing on NFV server . The hypervisor software uses SDN IP router VMs executing in NFV server to route IP packets between physical SDN IP interfaces and .

In the SDN application plane of NFV server the SDN application VMs use SDN Application Programming Interfaces APIs to exchange application data with the SDN controller VMs over northbound SDN interfaces. An exemplary list of SDN application VMs includes Virtual Private Network VPN servers Internet Multimedia Subsystem IMS servers authorization databases network gateways access node controllers and the like. The SDN controller VMs process the application data to control flow tables in the SDN plane over southbound SDN interfaces. The SDN data plane comprises SDN flow controllers and SDN IP router VMs when VMs are executing in NFV server . Thus the SDN applications direct the SDN controllers to load the SDN flow tables in both SDN flow controllers and SDN IP router VMs . Additional SDN data plane VMs are implemented in the manner of IP router VMs such as IP header processors Deep Packet Inspection DPI units media transcoders virtual Layer 2 switches virtual SDN flow controllers and the like.

Network probe systems include HRoT NFV DHCP IP probe and network topology components. Network probe systems establish HRoT with one another and identify IP address pairs for HRoT NFV verification. Network probe system is coupled to input SDN IP interface in SDN flow controller . Output SDN IP interface in SDN flow controller is coupled to network probe system .

Network probe system transfers varying loads of IP network probe packets with one of the IP address pairs and with HRoT NFV reporting parameters to SDN flow controller . SDN flow controller receives the network probe packets with the HRoT NFV reporting parameters into input interface . SDN flow controller routes some of these IP network probe packets to SDN IP router VM in NFV server . Responsive to the IP HRoT NFV reporting parameters SDN flow controller encodes its HW ID and transfers probe response packets to network probe system that indicate encoded HW ID and interfaces and . In situations where SDN flow controller is virtualized virtual SDN flow controller obtains and reports its NFV time slice from its NFV system responsive to the IP NFV reporting parameter.

NFV server receives the IP network probe packets with the IP HRoT NFV reporting parameters into input SDN IP interface . SDN IP router VM routes the IP probe packets to SDN IP router VM based on its flow table. Responsive to the IP HRoT reporting parameter SDN IP router VM obtains encoded HW ID from the HRoT system in NFV server . Responsive to the IP NFV reporting parameter SDN IP router VM obtains its NFV time slice from the NFV system in NFV server . SDN IP router VM may also obtain input output SDN IP interface data from NFV server . SDN IP router VM transfers IP probe response packets to network probe system that indicate the encoded HW ID NFV time slice input interface and virtual SDN IP interface to VM .

SDN IP router VM routes the IP probe packets to SDN flow controller based on its flow table. Responsive to the IP HRoT reporting parameter SDN IP router VM obtains encoded HW ID from the HRoT system. Responsive to the IP NFV reporting parameter SDN IP router VM obtains its NFV time slice from the NFV system. SDN IP router VM may also obtain input output SDN IP interface data from NFV server . SDN IP router VM transfers IP probe response packets to network probe system that indicate the encoded HW ID NFV time slice virtual SDN IP interface to VM and output interface .

SDN flow controller receives the IP network probe packets with the HRoT reporting parameters into input interface . SDN flow controller routes these probe packets to network probe system based on its flow table. Responsive to the IP HRoT reporting parameters SDN flow controller encodes its HW ID and transfers IP probe response packets to network probe system . Network probe system also reports the IP communication path end point to network probe system responsive to the IP network probe packets. In situations where SDN flow controller is virtualized virtual SDN flow controller obtains and reports its NFV time slice from its NFV system responsive to the IP NFV reporting parameter.

Network probe system processes the probe response packets to identify an end to end IP communication path for the originating IP address and the destination IP address based on the string of SDN IP interfaces and the reports from IP end point probe system . Network probe system then determines hardware trust status for the end to end IP communication path formed by these interfaces based on the encoded HW IDs reported from SDN flow controllers and IP router VMs . Network probe system verifies that all reported SDN IP interfaces are coupled per the network topology and use hardware with HRoT.

Network probe system also determines NFV trust status for the end to end IP communication path formed by these interfaces based on the NFV time slices reported from SDN flow controllers and IP router VMs . Network probe system verifies that all reported NFV time slices are used per target NFV time slice data for the given network elements.

Referring to network probe system transfers varying loads of IP network probe packets having an IP address pair and HRoT NFV reporting parameters to SDN flow controller . SDN flow controller routes some of these IP network probe packets to SDN IP router VM in NFV server based on its flow table. Responsive to the IP HRoT reporting parameter SDN flow controller encodes its HW ID and transfers probe response packets to network probe system that indicate encoded HW ID and the input and output interfaces used for the transfer.

SDN IP router VM receives the IP network probe packets that have IP HRoT NFV reporting parameters from input SDN IP interface . SDN IP router VM routes the IP probe packets to SDN IP router VM based on its flow table. Responsive to the IP HRoT reporting parameter SDN IP router VM obtains encoded HW ID from the HRoT system. Responsive to the IP NFV reporting parameter SDN IP router VM obtains its NFV Time Slice TS from the NFV system. SDN IP router VM and transfers IP probe response packets to network probe system that indicate the encoded HW ID NFV time slice and the input and output interfaces used for the transfer.

SDN IP router VM routes the IP probe packets to SDN flow controller based on its flow table. Responsive to the IP HRoT reporting parameter SDN IP router VM obtains encoded HW ID from the HRoT system. Responsive to the IP NFV reporting parameter SDN IP router VM obtains its NFV time slice from the NFV system. SDN IP router VM transfers IP probe response packets to network probe system that indicate the encoded HW ID NFV time slice and the input and output interfaces used for the transfer.

SDN flow controller routes the IP network probe packets to network probe system based on its flow table. Responsive to the IP HRoT reporting parameters SDN flow controller encodes its HW ID and transfers IP probe response packets to network probe system indicating the encoded HW ID and the input and output interfaces used for the transfer. Network probe system also reports the IP communication path end point to network probe system responsive to the IP network probe packets.

Network probe system processes the probe response packets to identify an end to end IP communication path for the originating IP address and the destination IP address based on the string of SDN IP interfaces and the reports from IP end point probe system . Network probe system then determines hardware trust status for the end to end IP communication path formed by these interfaces based on the encoded HW IDs reported from the SDN flow controllers and IP router VMs . Network probe system verifies that all reported SDN IP interfaces are coupled per the network topology and use hardware with HRoT.

Network probe system also determines NFV trust status for the end to end IP communication path formed by these interfaces based on the NFV time slices reported from SDN IP router VMs . Network probe system verifies that all reported NFV time slices are used per target NFV time slice data for the given VMs on the IP communication path.

Data processing system comprises processing circuitry and storage system . HRoT key is physically embedded in an electronically readable form from processing circuitry . Storage system stores software and IP route information . Software includes software modules . Some conventional aspects of computer system are omitted for clarity such as power supplies enclosures and the like. Network computer system may be centralized or distributed.

In data processing system processing circuitry comprises server blades circuit boards bus interfaces and connections integrated circuitry and associated electronics. Storage system comprises non transitory machine readable data storage media such as flash drives disc drives memory circuitry tape drives servers and the like. Software comprises machine readable instructions that control the operation of processing circuitry when executed. Software includes software modules and may also include operating systems applications data structures virtual machines utilities databases and the like. All or portions of software may be externally stored on one or more storage media such as circuitry discs tape and the like.

When executed by processing circuitry HRoT module directs circuitry to maintain HRoT with the hardware comprising each of receivers and transmitters . HRoT module also directs circuitry to provide an encoded version of HRoT key to hypervisor module and or IP router modules . HRoT module also directs circuitry to execute hypervisor module . When executed by processing circuitry hypervisor module directs circuitry to operate an NFV data processing environment for IP router modules and to supply NFV time slice data and perhaps encoded HRoT key .

When executed by processing circuitry in the NFV time slices IP router modules direct circuitry to transfer IP packets from Layer 2 receivers to Layer 2 transmitters based on IP addresses and IP route information . Responsive to HRoT NFV reporting parameters in the IP headers IP router modules also direct circuitry to obtain encoded HRoT key from HRoT module through hypervisor module and obtain NFV time slice data from hypervisor module . Responsive to HRoT NFV reporting parameters in the IP headers IP router modules also direct circuitry to generate and transfer IP response messages indicating the encoded HRoT key the NFV time slice data and the individual Layer 2 receivers and transmitters used for the IP packet transfer.

Data processing system comprises processing circuitry and storage system . Storage system stores software and network topology data . Software includes software modules . Some conventional aspects of computer system are omitted for clarity such as power supplies enclosures and the like. Network computer system may be centralized or distributed.

In data processing system processing circuitry comprises server blades circuit boards bus interfaces and connections integrated circuitry and associated electronics. Storage system comprises non transitory machine readable data storage media such as flash drives disc drives memory circuitry tape drives servers and the like. Software comprises machine readable instructions that control the operation of processing circuitry when executed. Software includes software modules and may also include operating systems applications data structures virtual machines utilities databases and the like. All or portions of software may be externally stored on one or more storage media such as circuitry discs tape and the like.

When executed by processing circuitry IP address allocation module identifies IP address pairs for HRoT and NFV verification. When executed by processing circuitry probe messaging module directs circuitry to transmit IP probe packets having the identified IP address pair and HRoT NFV reporting parameters. When executed by processing circuitry IP communication path module directs circuitry to identify IP communication paths based on received probe response messages and network topology data . When executed by processing circuitry HRoT verification module directs circuitry to generate HRoT results for the network elements on the IP communications path and compare them to the reported and encoded HRoT HW IDs. HRoT verification module also directs circuitry to match the reported communication interfaces to the network topology data to account for all IP probe packet transfers. When executed by processing circuitry NFV verification module directs circuitry to compare reported NFV time slices for reporting routers switches and controllers to their target time slices as indicated by network topology data .

The above description and associated figures teach the best mode of the invention. The following claims specify the scope of the invention. Note that some aspects of the best mode may not fall within the scope of the invention as specified by the claims. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the features described above can be combined in various ways to form multiple variations of the invention. As a result the invention is not limited to the specific embodiments described above but only by the following claims and their equivalents.

