---

title: Content provider selection system
abstract: Described herein are systems and methods for automatically selecting a content provider for delivery of content for consumption by a user. Various selection data such as cost, subscription plan, and so forth are gathered and a weighting profile is applied to generate a total weight by content provider. The total weight by content provider may be used to select one content provider from another for delivery of a particular piece of content.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09325761&OS=09325761&RS=09325761
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09325761
owner_city: Seatte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150216
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority to pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 714 076 filed on Dec. 13 2012 entitled Automated Selection of a Content Provider. The entirety of this previously filed application is hereby incorporated by reference.

A wide variety of media devices are available for consumers to use for the consumption of an even wider selection of content. These media devices may include televisions tablet computers personal computers electronic book e book readers gaming consoles in vehicle entertainment systems portable media players and so forth. The content presented by these media devices may include audio video e books games and so forth. The content may be downloaded or streamed from a content provider for consumption on the user s device. The same or similar pieces of content may be available from several different content providers.

Traditionally the user has had to manually make determinations as to which content provider to receive content from. This manual selection of a content provider may result in many user options and user interfaces which may be confusing or otherwise result in an adverse user experience.

Certain implementations and embodiments will now be described more fully below with reference to the accompanying figures in which various aspects are shown. However various aspects may be implemented in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the implementations set forth herein. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

Media devices present content to one or more users or access the content for later consumption by the one or more users. The same or similar pieces of content may be available from many different content providers. For example the movie Burnt Sage may be available from content providers A B and C in different versions or distributions which are the same or similar. For example the content providers A and B may offer for distribution the high definition version while the content provider C may offer a standard definition version of the same title.

The availability of content may vary over time. For example the movie Burnt Sage may be available as a new release at a premium cost from content provider A may not yet be available from content provider B and may be available as part of the subscription from the content provider C.

Traditionally the user has manually selected a particular content provider for the presentation of content. However this manual selection may result in an adverse user experience by calling for extensive user interaction. For example the user may have to balance various factors such as which content providers offer the same or the similar content review information from each of the content providers such as costs quality and so forth. Performance of this task may involve the user maneuvering through various user interfaces to acquire information select a content provider and initiate the transfer of the content. For example the user may find it necessary to search through several content providers to find that a particular piece of content is available for presentation.

Described in this disclosure are methods and systems for automatically selecting a content provider. Once the user has selected a piece of content for consumption which is available from more than one content provider automatic selection of the content provider may be used. The automatic selection may be based on selection data which is applied to a weighting profile to generate a total weight by each of the content providers. The total weights for each of the content providers may be compared and used to designate a particular content provider to provide the content.

The selection data may include one or more selection data elements such as user data content data technical data business data and so forth. The user data may include information which is descriptive of the user and that user s preferences for content delivery cost to deliver the content to the user and so forth. The content data may be information specific to the particular content title such as how popular the content is at a particular content provider. The technical data may include information about delivery of content from the different content providers. The business data may include licensing agreements provisioning agreements and so forth. The data may be expressed as numeric values.

The weighting profiles define particular weights to be applied to one or more of the selection data elements. For example data for the selection data element of server availability may be weighted heavily with a value of 0.95 while the data for the selection data element of provisioning agreements may be weighted less in comparison at 0.20. These weights may be manually generated such as by a system administrator may be machine generated such as based on user feedback or may be generated as a combination of both.

By applying one or more of the weighting profiles to the selection data a total weight for one or more of the content providers may be generated. One of the content providers may then be automatically selected based at least in part on the total weight generated.

The media device may be used to acquire at least a portion of the selection data and generate requests for content. The request for content and at least a portion of this selection data may be provided to a weighting provider. The weighting provider uses the techniques described above to automatically select the content provider. The media device may then receive the content from the designated content provider.

The media device may include televisions tablet computers personal computers e book readers gaming consoles in vehicle entertainment systems portable media players and so forth. The media device depicted in comprises a display.

The media device may connect to other media devices with one or more device interfaces. The device interface may be a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI as promulgated by HDMI Licensing LLC TOSLINK as promulgated by Toshiba Corp. Ethernet analog video analog audio IEEE 1394 as promulgated by the Institute for Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE Universal Serial Bus USB as promulgated by the USB Implementers Forum Bluetooth as promulgated by the Bluetooth Special Interest Group ZigBee as promulgated by the ZigBee Alliance and so forth.

The media device comprises a communication module configured to establish and support communications between the media device and other devices. For example the communication module may execute instructions which support transmission of data across a data network using the Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP .

A user interface module of the media device is configured to provide a user interface to the user and accept inputs responsive to the user interface . The user interface may include one or more visual audible or haptic elements. For example the user interface may be configured to provide a graphical user interface GUI using the display which includes a control to watch the content now using the automatically selected content provider or save the content to watch later. The user interface is described in more detail below with regard to .

The presentation module is configured to present content on or in conjunction with the media device . The presentation module may be configured to receive streamed content from an external source device such as a server or the presentation module may access content which has been previously stored on the media device . The presentation module may support digital rights management presentation of encrypted content and so forth. The presentation module may be configured to work in conjunction with the user interface module to allow the user to select content for consumption. For example the presentation module may generate information to be presented using the user interface module such as a previously determined list of content available for presentation.

A selection data acquisition module on the media device is configured to acquire selection data . The selection data acquisition module may work in conjunction with other modules such as the communication module the user interface module and the presentation module . The selection data may include one or more selection data elements such as user data content data technical data business data and so forth. The selection data is described in more detail below with regard to .

The media device may be coupled to a remote control using a communication link . The remote control may serve as an input device or an input output device for the media device . For example the remote control may include one or more of a touch sensor button accelerometer gyroscope camera microphone speaker haptic output device and so forth. The communication link may be optical radio frequency acoustic and so forth. In one implementation the communication link may use a personal area network interface such as one compliant with the Bluetooth specification. In some implementations the remote control may comprise another device such as a smartphone tablet computer and so forth which is communicatively coupled to the media device .

The media device may couple to one or more networks which are configured to transfer data between devices. The networks may include one or more public networks such as the Internet private networks or a combination of both. The network in turn couples to a plurality of content providers . . . P which are provided by different content provider entities. As used in this disclosure letters in parenthesis such as P indicate an integer value.

While each of the content providers are depicted as single servers in some implementations the servers of the content providers or the functions attributed to the servers of the content providers may be provided by a plurality of devices. For example the server may exist as a virtualized server executing across a plurality of physical servers.

In some implementations different content providers may be supported by the same hardware. For example a cloud service provider may use a set of physical server hardware to provide many different virtual servers which are in turn used by different content provider entities. Unless otherwise indicated for ease of reference in this disclosure the terms content provider and content provider entity may be used interchangeably.

The content provider may provide functions such as streaming content to the media device for presentation authenticating user accounts providing content lists and so forth. The content provider may store or have access to one or more pieces of content . The content may include audio video e books games and so forth. The content may be provided using the network to the media device . The presentation module of the media device may receive the content and present it to the user .

The presentation module of the media device may be configured to send a request using the network to a weighting provider . This request may seek automatic selection of the content provider for a particular piece of content . A content provider weighting module of the weighting provider may receive the request and access the selection data and one or more weighting profiles .

The weighting profile defines particular weights to be applied to one or more of the selection data elements in the selection data . For example data for the selection data element of server availability may be weighted heavily with a value of 0.95 while the data for the selection data element of provisioning agreements may be lightly weighted at 0.20. These weights may be manually generated such as by a system administrator may be machine generated such as based on user feedback or may be a combination of both. The weighting profiles are discussed in more detail below with regard to .

The content provider weighting module may process the selection data with the selected weighting profile to generate a total weight by content provider . The total weight by content provider may be used to designate a particular content provider to distribute the content to the media device . The total weight by content provider may be determined on demand or at least a portion of the total weight by content provider may be calculated in advance and retrieved.

In one implementation the designation by the content provider weighting module may be returned to the media device . The presentation module of the media device may then based at least in part on this designation select the content provider to provide the content .

A content provider account management module may be configured to maintain information about user accounts associated with the user which allow access to the content provided by the different content providers . For example the content provider account management module may include an application programming interface API not shown which is configured to connect to a distribution module of the content provider to initiate distribution of the content . Using this API the content provider weighting module may determine the content provider and send a request to initiate streaming of the content to the distribution module of the content provider . The distribution module is configured to receive requests for content and distribute the requested piece of content to the media device .

In some implementations at least a portion of the functions of the weighting provider may be incorporated into the media device . For example the media device may be configured to automatically select the content provider as a standalone device.

An option control may be presented as well by the user interface . The option control allows the user to access additional actions associated with the content that may be selected. For example the other actions presented may include storing the content in a watch list or queue for later presentation seeing a ranked list of the content providers to allow the user to override the automated selection and so forth.

Using the automated content provider selection techniques described in this disclosure the consumption controls are significantly simpler and provide a simpler user experience. For example instead of traditional systems where the user has to navigate different content provider menus and discern a selection from the information presented an easy choice is presented to the user in the user interface .

The selection data may include one or more of user data content data technical data or business data . In other implementations other data may be collected as well. The selection data and portions therein may be provided at different levels of granularity ranging from an individual user or piece of content to all users and all pieces of content . For example the selection data may be specific to the selection data gathered by the selection data acquisition module of a particular media device used by a particular user .

The user data may include user preferences content delivery cost to the user list of content consumed queue management activities by the user queue management and so forth. The user preferences indicate predefined or machine learned preferences the user may have for particular resolutions color depths content providers . . . P and so forth.

The content delivery cost to the user indicates a financial cost incurred by the user to have the content presented by a particular content provider . In some implementations the content delivery cost may be determined based on information such as the particular user account information with a given content provider subscription plan and so forth. For example the content delivery cost may indicate that the content provider will charge 2.99 for presentation of the content while the content provider is a subscription model to which the user would pay no additional fee to have the content presented.

The list of content consumed indicates previous pieces of content which have been consumed by the user . The list of content consumed may comprise a count of all pieces of content consumed number of minutes of content consumed and so forth. Other information such as which content provider was selected may also be stored. For example a high value may be assigned to indications of the user manually selecting or overriding previous automatic selections or defaults. The content consumed data may be specific to a particular content provider or the content consumed data may apply across all content providers used by the user .

The queue management data provides information as to how frequently the user accesses the queue or list of content to be consumed. This queue may comprise information indicative of content selected for previous or future consumption. For example more frequent access to a watch list associated with a particular content provider may indicate a preference for that particular content provider .

The content data provides information indicative of the particular piece of content requested for presentation. The content may include user ratings of content a measure of popularity by content provider content length and so forth.

The user ratings of content may also be considered in the automatic selection. The user ratings of content include information about user feedback about a particular piece of content . This may include a count or other statistical data about the reviews which may be used to select a particular content provider . For example a first content provider which has users rating the same or a similar piece of content may have a higher value than a second content provider based on the assumption that the first content provider is providing a better overall experience which leads to higher overall ratings from users .

The popularity by content provider may provide a count of total number of accesses of the content for a given period of time at a particular content provider . In some implementations the popularity by content provider may be indicated as a relative ranking.

The content length indicates the total length of the piece of content selected for presentation. The content length may affect the total weight such that longer pieces of content may place higher value on reliability of delivery over extended periods of time.

The content data may include information such as the color depth and the resolution for the piece of content . The color depth indicates the number of pixels used to indicate color of a particular pixel. The resolution data indicates the number of bits of data used encode the content . For example the resolution data may be expressed as the number of pixels in an image or as the number of bits used to encode audio.

The content data may also include information about a codec used to encode the content . Due to differences in playback quality digital rights management complexity licensing costs associated with use of particular codecs and so forth different values may be associated to the content based on the codec used to encode the content . For example a codec that incurs a per use cost for presentation may have a low value while a codec that does not incur a per use cost for presentation may have a high value.

The technical data provides information about the media device the content providers or both the media device and content providers . The technical data also reflects information associated with the delivery and provisioning of the content . The technical data may include one or more of server availability bandwidth caps of content providers or network providers historical delivery bitrate maximum bitrate and so forth.

The server availability provides metrics indicative of historical availability current availability or both historical and current availability of a particular content provider to distribute content . For example a high value may indicate that the particular content provider is frequently available.

The bandwidth cap may be associated with a content provider network service provider or a combination of the content provider and network service provider. For example when the user is approaching a bandwidth cap the greater value may be assigned to pieces of content delivered at a lower bitrate to reduce data consumption and avoid meeting or exceeding those caps.

The historical delivery bitrate provides information about previous delivery of content from a particular content provider . For example a content provider that has delivered the last five pieces of content at a very low bitrate may have a value lower than a content provider that has delivered the last five pieces of content at a high bitrate. The bitrate may represent the encoding of audio video or both audio and video.

The technical data may also include information such as the maximum bitrate which provides data about the peak sustainable bitrate from the content provider . The maximum bitrate may be constrained by the content provider hardware software or by the network .

The business data comprises information about other aspects associated with the content or service provisioning which may be used to select the content provider automatically. Licensing agreement information may be encoded. For example a particular licensing agreement may be associated with a particular piece of content that requires the content to be available in a particular resolution on a particular time scheduled to users in particular geographic areas. Provisioning agreements that define particular caps or rotation of which content provider is used may also be provided as part of the business data . For example the provisioning agreement may call for distributing any requests for content over a predetermined threshold to a particular content provider to avoid saturation of a particular content provider .

The business data may include information about revenue models and promotions . The revenue modules may be used to encode values representative of the financial benefits for selecting a particular content provider . For example a high value may be assigned to content providers that provide greater remuneration. Likewise promotions for the use of a particular content provider may be applied to encourage traffic at a particular content provider . For example a particular content provider may offer a content promotion for users to buy three get one free. 

The weighting profile defines particular weights to be applied to the values of one or more of the selection data elements in the selection data . In this illustration several weighting profiles are shown. The weighting profiles may be associated with different categories of use or users . As shown here weighting profiles may be configured for a new single user with no current content provider relationships new multiple adult users with no current content providers or new family user with no current content providers .

The weighting profiles may also include single users with a single content provider account single user with multiple content provider accounts multiple adult users with multiple content provider accounts or a family user with multiple content provider accounts . Other weighting profiles W may also be available.

A particular weighting profile may be associated with a particular user . For example during configuration of the media device the user may enter various demographic information and account information associated with the different content providers that the user has previous relationships with. Based on the user indicating that the user is part of a family and has accounts with the content providers and the weighting profile may be selected for use.

Details of the weighting profile are shown including selection data elements and associated weights for each of the selection data elements . The combination of selection data elements chosen may vary between weighting profiles . For example in this illustration the weighting profile includes the popularity by content provider data element but another weighting profile such as may omit this selection data element .

The weights are expressed here as a numeric value by way of illustration and not as a limitation. Where numeric the weight may be positive or negative. For example in some implementations a particular selection data element may be associated with a negative user experience and so that particular selection data element may be assigned a negative weight that may be subtracted from that the total weight by content provider for that content provider .

Continuing the example in this illustration the weighting profile includes several of the selection data elements and corresponding weights . For example the server availability has a weight of 0.95 the content delivery cost to the user has a weight of 0.80 the historical delivery bitrate has a weight of 0.75 the popularity by content provider has a weight of 0.50 and the provisioning agreements are assigned a weight of 0.20.

The weights may be manually generated such as by a system administrator may be machine generated such as based on user feedback or may be generated as a combination of both. For example an administrator may manually configure initial weight whereupon a machine learning system may adjust those weights over time based at least in part on user feedback and behavior.

As illustrated here the content provider weighting module retrieves the selection data and the weighting profile associated with a particular user media device or both the user and the media device . For example the user may be associated with the selection data and the weighting profile .

The selection data elements and weights for each associated with the particular weighting profile are accessed and the associated values are retrieved from the selection data . As described above these values may be specific to a particular content provider . As illustrated here the server availability value for the content provider is 95 while the server availability value for the content provider is 87 .

The values are multiplied by the weight for that selection data element . Continuing the example the sever availability has a weight of 0.95 . Multiplying the weights with the respective values generates a weighted value . In this example based on the weights and the values a weighted value of 90.25 for the content provider is calculated and a weighted value of 82.65 for the content provider is calculated.

The weighted values for the different selection data elements may be summed for each content provider to generate the total weight by content provider . Continuing the example in this illustration the content provider has a total weight of 159.00 while the content provider has a total weight of 257.60. 

The content provider weighting module may use the total weight for content provider to select the content provider to distribute the content . In this example the content provider weighting module may be configured to select the content provider with the greatest total weight by content provider . Based on this configuration the content provider may be selected as the total weight by content provider of 257.60 is greater than the total weight by content provider of 159.00 .

In some implementations at least a portion of the total weight by content provider may be pre calculated. For example some of the selection data elements such as server availability and the historical delivery bitrate may be considered constant across different pieces of content from the same content provider . As a result these selection data elements may be pre calculated and then combined with content specific selection data elements at the time of processing. In some other implementations the entire total weight may be pre calculated in advance for frequently accessed combinations of content weighting profiles and so forth. The pre calculated portions may be then retrieved upon request.

The I O interface s may couple to one or more I O devices . The I O devices may include input devices such as one or more of a camera a microphone a touch sensor a button and so forth. The I O devices may also include output devices such as one or more of a display audio speakers haptic output device and so forth. In some embodiments the I O devices may be physically incorporated with the media device or may be externally placed.

The media device may also include one or more communication interfaces . The communication interfaces are configured to provide communications between the media device and other devices. The communication interfaces may include personal area networks PANS wireless local area networks LANS wireless wide area networks WAN and so forth. The media device may communicate with the remote control using one or more of the communication interfaces . For example the media device may communicate with the remote control using a Bluetooth PAN.

As described above one or more of the device interfaces are also present in the media device . The device interfaces allow for the exchange of information between the media device and other media devices . The device interface may include one or more of a HDMI TOSLINK Ethernet analog video analog audio IEEE 1394 USB Bluetooth ZigBee and so forth. The device interfaces may allow for wired or wireless communication between the media device and the other media devices .

The media device may also include one or more busses or other internal communications hardware or software that allow for the transfer of data between the various modules and components of the media device .

As shown in the media device includes one or more memories . The memory comprises one or more computer readable storage media CRSM . The CRSM may be any one or more of an electronic storage medium a magnetic storage medium an optical storage medium a quantum storage medium a mechanical computer storage medium and so forth. The memory provides storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the operation of the media device .

The memory may include at least one operating system OS module . The OS module is configured to manage hardware resource devices such as the I O interfaces the I O devices the communication interfaces the device interfaces and provide various services to applications or modules executing on the processors . Also stored in the memory may be the communication module the user interface module the presentation module and the selection data acquisition module .

As described above the communication module is configured to establish and support communications between the media device and other devices. The communication module may access the communication interfaces to exchange information. For example the communication module may be configured to send a request from the media device for determination of a content provider for presentation of content to the weighting provider using the network .

The communication module may also be configured to acquire at least a portion of the selection data and provide this information to the selection data acquisition module . For example the communication module may monitor the maximum bitrate provided by the content provider while sending content to the media device .

The user interface module is configured to provide the user interface to the user using the I O devices and accept inputs received from the I O devices . The user interface may include one or more visual audible or haptic elements. For example the user interface may be configured to provide an audible user interface using the speakers which includes a prompt to listen now to an audiobook using the automatically selected content provider or to save the content to listen later.

The presentation module is configured to present content on or in conjunction with the media device . The presentation module may be configured to receive streamed content from an external source device such as the server of the content provider or the presentation module may access content that has been previously stored on the media device in the memory . The presentation module may support digital rights management presentation of encrypted content and so forth.

The presentation module may be configured to work in conjunction with the user interface module to allow the user to select content for consumption. For example the presentation module may generate information to be presented using the user interface module such as a previously determined list of content available for presentation. Once selected the presentation module may use the communication module to send a request to the weighting provider . The weighting provider may process the request and automatically determine the content provider . This determination may then be returned to the presentation module on the media device . Based at least in part on the determination the presentation module may initiate presentation using the automatically determined content provider .

The selection data acquisition module on the media device is configured to acquire at least a portion of the selection data used by the content provider weighting module . The selection data acquisition module may work in conjunction with other modules such as the communication module the user interface module and the presentation module . In some implementations the selection data acquisition module may access system or user logs and use the information therein to generate at least a portion of the selection data .

The selection data acquisition module may be configured to use the user interface module to provide a user interface to the user that allows for the specification of preferences indication of whether to allow or disallow collection of the selection data and so forth. For example the user may choose to opt in to collection and sharing of the selection data with the weighting provider .

Other modules may be stored in the memory . For example a digital rights management module may work in conjunction with the presentation module to facilitate access to content .

The memory may also include a datastore to store information. The datastore may use a flat file database linked list tree or other data structure to store the information. In some implementations the datastore or a portion of the datastore may be distributed across one or more other devices including servers network attached storage devices and so forth.

The datastore may store a portion of the selection data or other data . For example the other data may include user preferences local copies of content and so forth.

The weighting provider may include one or more processors configured to execute one or more stored instructions. The processors may comprise one or more cores. The weighting provider may include one or more I O interface s to allow the processor or other portions of the weighting provider to communicate with other devices. The I O interfaces may comprise I2C SPI USB RS 232 and so forth.

The I O interface s may couple to one or more I O devices . The I O devices may include input devices such as one or more of a keyboard a touch sensor and so forth. The I O devices may also include output devices such as one or more of a display printer and so forth. In some embodiments the I O devices may be physically incorporated with the weighting provider or may be externally placed.

The weighting provider may also include one or more communication interfaces . The communication interfaces are configured to provide communications between the weighting provider and other devices such as the media device . The communication interfaces may include wireless LAN wireless WAN and so forth. For example the communication interfaces may include an Ethernet interface which connects to the network .

The weighting provider may also include one or more busses or other internal communications hardware or software that allow for the transfer of data between the various modules and components of the weighting provider .

As shown in the weighting provider includes one or more memories . The memory comprises one or more CRSM as discussed previously in . The memory provides storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the operation of the weighting provider .

The memory may include at least one OS module . The OS module is configured to manage hardware resource devices such as the I O interfaces the I O devices the communication interfaces the device interfaces and provide various services to applications or modules executing on the processors . Also stored in the memory may be a user interface module the content provider weighting module and the content provider account management module .

The user interface module is configured to provide a user interface to the user or to the media device . In one implementation the user interface may be a web interface presented via the network and accessible to the users . In another implementation the user interface may comprise an API which enables communication such as sending requests for content provider selection from the media device to the weighting provider .

The user interface module may also be configured to accept feedback or information from the users including but not limited to the selection data . In one implementation the user interface module may be configured to provide an interface to the media device to allow for the exchange of the selection data .

The content provider weighting module may process the selection data with the selected weighting profile to generate the total weight by content provider . The selection data may be based at least in part on information from the media device the weighting provider the content provider or another source. For example the weighting provider may access a datastore containing information about content ratings content length and so forth. The total weight by content provider may be determined on demand or at least a portion of the total weight by content provider may be pre calculated and retrieved.

The content provider weighting module may be configured to operate based at least in part on a request received from the media device . For example the media device may send information to the weighting provider indicative of the user s request to have a particular piece of content presented. The content provider weighting module may provide either the total weight by content provider for the available content providers or the content provider weighting module may provide data indicating the automatically selected content provider . The process of generating the total weight by content provider is discussed in more detail below with regard to .

The content provider account management module may be configured to maintain information about user accounts associated with the user . These user accounts may be associated with content access privileges to content . The content provider weighting module may use the content provider account management module to provide information about current content access parameters costs and so forth which may be used to determine one or more pieces of selection data .

In some implementations the content provider account management module may include an API configured to connect to the distribution module of the content provider to initiate distribution of the content . For example the content provider weighting module may determine the content provider for presentation and send a request to initiate streaming of the content to the distribution module of the content provider for delivery to the media device . In other implementations other data transfers may be initiated such as sending at least a portion of the content to an edge node of a content delivery network. The edge node is a server proximate to the media device through the network . The proximity may be based on geography network performance characteristics such as latency or bandwidth and so forth. For example the edge node may be a server located in the same town as the media device .

Other modules may be stored in the memory . For example a weighting profile learning module may be configured to dynamically adjust at least a portion of the weighting profiles based on the selection data or other input.

The memory may also include a datastore to store information. The datastore may use a flat file database linked list tree or other data structure to store the information. In some implementations the datastore or a portion of the datastore may be distributed across one or more other devices including servers network attached storage devices and so forth.

The datastore may store a portion of the selection data as indicated above the weighting profiles generated total weight by content provider or other data . For example the other data may include administrator preferences account information associated with the user and so forth.

In one implementation one or more of the functions of the weighting provider may be provided on the media device . For example in some implementations the media device may include a content provider weighting module weighting profiles and so forth. In this implementation the weighting provider as a separate device may be omitted from the system and the media devices may operate independently to automatically select a content provider .

Block acquires the selection data comprising a plurality of selection data elements . The selection data may be acquired from the media device the content provider or other sources. For example the content provider may provide content data to the weighting provider .

Block determines weights associated with one or more of the selection data elements . In some implementations the weights may be determined by processing the selection data using one or more machine learning techniques. For example historical selection data may be processed to determine correlation between different factors and selection of a content provider . The correlation may then be used to generate weights such that selection data elements which are highly correlated to selection of the content provider may be weighted more heavily.

In some implementations the weights may be determined by receiving input from one or more users . These may be administrative users end users or a combination of both administrative users and end users. In one implementation this input may be gathered by presenting one or more options to one or more users . The presented options may be associated with content delivery. Input may be received from the one or more users responsive to the one or more options. For example the user may be presented with a series of questions used to rank which parameters are most important to that user such as delays in presentation resolution presented and so forth. The responses to these questions may then be used to set the weight for one or more of the selection data elements .

Block generates the weighting profile associating the selection data element with a determined weight . For example the selection data element for server availability has a weight of 0.95 .

Block stores the weighting profile . For example the weighting profile may be stored in the memory . As described above the weighting profile may then be accessed by the content provider weighting module to generate the total weight by content provider .

Block receives from the user interface a request for content available from a plurality of content providers . . . P . For example the user may select from a list a piece of content to watch. The selection of a particular content may in turn result in generation of the request for that particular content .

Block accesses the selection data associated with the video content and the plurality of the content providers . . . P . As described above the selection data may be indicative of one or more aspects of content delivery of the video content from one or more of the plurality of content providers P .

Block accesses a weighting profile associated with the request for the particular content . In one implementation this may be a weighting profile associated with the user . As described above the weighting profile may comprise one or more selection data elements and associated weights for each of the selection data elements . The selection data elements are the one or more aspects or attributes of selection data .

As also described above selection data elements may comprise one or more of the content delivery costs of the video content associated with the user from each of the plurality of content providers the popularity by content provider comprising a count of total number of accesses of the video content for a given period of time at each of the plurality of the content providers or the historical delivery bitrate of the content from each of the plurality of content providers .

Block generates a total weight by content provider for each of the plurality of content providers based at least in part on the weighting profile and the selection data . The total weight by content provider may be determined based at least in part by evaluating the selection data associated using the one or more of the plurality of content providers using the weighting values associated with the selection data . For example the values of the selection data for the content provider in each of the selection data elements may be multiplied by the weights in the weighting profile to generate weighted values for each of the plurality of the content providers . The products for each of the plurality of the content providers may then be summed to form the total weight by content provider for each of the content providers . In other implementations other operations may be performed to generate the total weights by content provider .

Based at least in part on the total weight by the content providers block designates a content provider for delivering the requested video content . For example based on having the greatest total weight by the content provider of 257.60 the content provider may be selected.

Once designated block may initiate delivery of the video content from the designated content provider . In one implementation the media device may request the content . In another implementation the weighting provider may send to the designated content provider a request to deliver the content to the media device . As mentioned above in other implementations other data transfers may be initiated such as sending at least a portion of the content to an edge node of a content delivery network.

Block receives from a media device or other device information indicative of a request for delivery of content . The same or similar content may be available from a plurality of content providers . For example similar content may include content with the same title but which is encoded in a different resolution. As described above the content may comprise one or more of audio video electronic books or an executable application.

In some implementations an additional block may determine availability of the content for delivery from a plurality of content providers . This determination may be made by sending a request for availability information to the plurality of content providers .

Block generates at least a portion of a metric associated with delivery of the content from each of the plurality of content providers . The metric may be based at least in part on data indicative of one or more aspects of content delivery of the content from one or more of the plurality of content providers . For example the metric may comprise the total weight by content provider and the data may comprise the selection data as described above. The data indicative of one or more aspects of content delivery of the content may include account information associated with a user account for each of the content providers .

The metric may be generated by accessing the data indicative of one or more aspects of content delivery of the content from the plurality of the content providers and associated with a plurality of selection data elements . A weighting profile may be accessed which comprises one or more of the selection data elements and associated weights for each of the selection data elements . The weighting profile may be applied to the data to generate the metric. The metric may comprise the total weight by content provider for each of the plurality of content providers .

In some implementations a portion of the metric may be pre calculated before receiving the information indicative of the request. For example a first portion of the metric may be calculated before receiving the information indicative of the request. Continuing the example a second portion of the metric may be calculated using data indicative of one or more of the selection data elements which are specific to the particular content indicated in the request. The generation of the metric may then include combining the pre calculated first portion and the second portion which is specific to the particular content indicated in the request.

Block selects based at least in part on the metric one of the plurality of content providers . For example the metric may indicate that the content provider is the appropriate content provider to deliver the content at this time.

Block provides the selection to the media device or other device. For example the weighting provider may send the information using the network to the media device .

Block receives data indicative of a request to deliver content . For example the weighting provider may receive a request from the media device .

Block determines the content is available from a plurality of content providers . As described above the weighting provider may send inquiries to the plurality of content providers to determine which have the same or similar content available.

Block determines user accounts associated with access to at least a portion of the plurality of the content providers . In one implementation the content provider account management module may make this determination using information provided by the user the content providers or both the user and the content providers .

Block determines content access privileges for the at least a portion of the plurality of content providers associated with the determined user accounts. In one implementation the content access privileges are indicative of the content availability as part of an existing subscription or for an additional fee from the content provider .

Based at least in part on the determined content access privileges block designates one of the content providers for delivery of the content . In some implementations additional information may be considered in the designation.

In one implementation the designation of the one of the content providers is further based at least in part on the user data associated with a particular one of the user accounts at the plurality of content providers . For example the user data may include one or more of user preferences content delivery cost content consumed queue management activity and so forth.

In another implementation the designation of the one of the content providers is further based at least in part on the content data indicative of consumption of the content by the same or other user accounts at the plurality of content providers .

In yet another implementation the designation of the one of the content providers is further based at least in part on the technical data indicative of provisioning of the content by the one or more content providers .

In still another implementation the designation of the one of the content providers is further based at least in part on the business data indicative of operational or contractual relationships involved in distribution of the content . As described above the operational or contractual relationships involved in distribution of the content may designate a preference for a particular content provider .

Block requests delivery of the content from the designated content provider using the associated user account. As described above the weighting provider may send information to the content provider initiating transfer of the content to the media device .

Those having ordinary skill in the art will readily recognize that certain steps or operations illustrated in in the figures above can be eliminated or taken in an alternate order. Moreover the methods described above may be implemented as one or more software programs for a computer system and are encoded in a computer readable storage medium as instructions executable on one or more processors.

The computer readable storage medium can be any one of an electronic storage medium a magnetic storage medium an optical storage medium a quantum storage medium and so forth. Separate instances of these programs can be executed on or distributed across separate computer systems. Thus although certain steps have been described as being performed by certain devices software programs processes or entities this need not be the case and a variety of alternative implementations will be understood by those having ordinary skill in the art.

Additionally those having ordinary skill in the art readily recognize that the techniques described above can be utilized in a variety of devices environments and situations.

Although the present disclosure is written with respect to specific embodiments and implementations various changes and modifications may be suggested to one skilled in the art and it is intended that the present disclosure encompass such changes and modifications that fall within the scope of the appended claims.

