---

title: Rectenna that converts infrared radiation to electrical energy
abstract: Technologies pertaining to converting infrared (IR) radiation to DC energy are described herein. In a general embodiment, a rectenna comprises a conductive layer. A thin insulator layer is formed on the conductive layer, and a nanoantenna is formed on the thin insulator layer. The thin insulator layer acts as a tunnel junction of a tunnel diode.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09437629&OS=09437629&RS=09437629
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09437629
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150825
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 127 119 filed on Mar. 2 2015 and entitled INFRARED RECTENNA FOR THERMAL ENERGY HARVESTING the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was developed under Contract DE AC04 94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

Direct conversion and detection of electromagnetic energy has conventionally been developed in the microwave region of the electromagnetic spectrum where high speed nonlinear rectifying elements such as Schottky diodes exist and relatively high conversion efficiencies have been attained. Wireless energy transfer to power remote devices based on radiofrequency RF and microwave direct rectification have been shown to be highly efficient with greater than 84 conversion efficiency at 2.45 GHz. These direct conversion devices utilize discrete element diodes and well developed antenna designs with impedance matching techniques to directly convert microwave radiation into a rectified direct current.

Principles utilized in designing these devices however are not readily applicable for conversion of infrared IR radiation into electricity. With more particularity scaling down one of the devices described above such that elements of these devices more readily conform to IR signals has been found to be suboptimal. This is at least partially because the rectifying elements cannot be treated as lumped element devices. Moreover carrier transport effects in semiconductor diodes are too slow to allow for direct conversion of IR radiation to electrical energy.

Technologies pertaining to an apparatus that converts infrared IR radiation to direct current DC electrical energy are disclosed herein. In a general embodiment the present disclosure provides a device referred to herein as a rectenna. The rectenna comprises a nanoantenna and a rectifying tunnel diode where the rectifying tunnel diode is intimately integrated with the nanoantenna. IR radiation incident upon the nanoantenna is converted to DC electrical energy by way of the rectifying tunnel diode. The nanoantenna can be or include a metal gating which includes a plurality of parallel metal bars or a metal frequency selective surface FSS wherein the grating or the FSS are formed of a suitable metal such as aluminum. The nanoantenna forms one terminal of the rectifying diode the other terminal is a solid layer of conducting material which can either be a metal or a semiconductor doped to a level such that it is conductive. Between the solid metal layer and the patterned metal of the nanoantenna is a thin insulator layer formed of insulating material. For example the thin insulator layer may be a layer of silicon dioxide. The metal gating or FSS the insulator layer and the conductive bottom layer collectively form the rectifying tunnel diode.

The rectenna is particularly well suited to generate electrical energy based upon waste heat emitted from a heat source. Accordingly the rectenna can be integrated with a photovoltaic PV cell to enhance efficiency of the PV cell. In another example the rectenna can be placed proximate a light source which emits heat as well as light. Other applications will be readily contemplated by one skilled in the art. IR radiation incident upon the rectenna excites the nanoantenna. The nanoantenna responsive to being excited confines the IR radiation into a small volume and in the thin insulator layer e.g. a 2 5.5 nanometer gap . In other words the IR radiation is coupled into a tunnel junction of the rectifying tunnel diode forming an electric field that oscillates perpendicularly to the tunnel junction. This in turn gives rise to an enhanced tunnel current. The tunnel diode responds very quickly resulting in formation of DC electrical energy that can be extracted from the rectum.

Additional features and advantages are described herein and will be apparent from the following Detailed Description and the figures.

Technologies pertaining to a rectenna that is configured to convert infrared IR radiation to direct current DC electrical energy are disclose herein. With reference now to in a general embodiment a schematic illustrating an exemplary rectenna is illustrated. As will be described herein the rectenna is configured to convert infrared IR radiation into direct current DC electrical energy. The rectenna comprises a nanoantenna . The term nanoantenna refers to an antenna with features on the nanoscale. As will be described in greater detail below the nanoantenna can be or include a metal grating that comprises a plurality of periodically spaced apart bars wherein the metal can be for example Aluminum Al . In another example the nanoantenna can be or include a frequency selective surface FSS such as any of those described in U.S. Pat. No. 8 897 609 issued on Nov. 25 2014 the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The rectenna further includes a rectifying tunnel diode that is intimately integrated with the nanoantenna in the rectenna . For example and as will be illustrated below the rectifying tunnel diode can be formed through placement of a thin insulator layer between the nanoantenna and a conductive layer. In an example the thin insulator layer may be a gate oxide layer.

The rectenna further includes electrical contacts not shown and a load having a suitable impedance can be coupled to the electrical contacts of the rectenna to generate optimal power such that the rectenna provides DC electricity to the load . For example the load may be a suitably chosen resistor capacitor inductor or any combination of these elements. The load may also comprise a battery a light an alarm or other suitable load. In operation the rectenna is placed in sight of an IR radiation source . For example the IR radiation source may be a light a vehicle engine a photovoltaic PV cell a processor or other mechanism that emits waste heat e.g. that is warmer than the rectenna . A distance between the IR radiation source and the rectenna can be relatively small to a near infinite distance.

Operation of the rectenna is now set forth. The nanoantenna is excited by IR radiation emitted from the IR radiation source that is incident upon the rectenna . The nanoantenna concentrates the IR radiation into a small volume and in a fairly narrow spectral band e.g. with wavelengths on the order of 2 20 microns . The tight electromagnetic confinement of optical fields into nanoscale gaps allows for enhancement of electronic tunneling through the tunnel barrier the thin insulator layer which can be a gate oxide . Large transverse electric fields in thin nanoscale gaps create large displacement currents resulting from the time varying electric field in the tunnel barrier. This form of direct conversion requires extremely fast rectification which can be achieved by direct tunneling in devices with highly asymmetric electrical response. The confinement of the optical fields in the device structure is due to the nanoantenna resonant coupling of infrared radiation into the tunnel diode structure.

The rectenna can be placed in close proximity of the thermal source such that evanescent wave coupling can be used to enhance the power transfer from hot source to cooler rectenna. This will generate enhanced heat to electrical conversion at distances less than the thermal wavelength hc kT with typical spacing less than 1000 nm. The end result is tunneling of current through the tunnel barrier and the rectifying tunnel diode converts IR radiation into DC energy which is used to drive the load .

With reference now to an isometric view of a portion of an exemplary rectenna is illustrated. The rectenna comprises a nanoantenna which is illustrated as being a metal grating that comprises a plurality of periodically spaced bars. It is to be understood however that the nanoantenna can comprise some other shape in a conductive material that is patterned. In an example the conductive material can be aluminum. The rectenna also comprises a conductive layer wherein the conductive layer comprises ridges that respectively correspond to the parallel bars of metal grating. In an example the conductive layer can be an n type substrate or a p type substrate sufficiently doped such that the substrate is conductive. In another example the conductive layer can be a metal conductive layer. As will be described below these ridges can be formed by over etching through the conductive material of the nanoantenna and into the conductive layer e.g. to a desired depth in the conductive layer . While not shown in between each ridge of the substrate and a corresponding bar in the metal grating is a thin layer of insulator. In an example the insulator can be silicon dioxide and the thickness of the layer of insulator can be between 2 nm and 5.5 nm. The insulator layer as noted above acts as a tunnel barrier of the rectifying tunnel diode .

With reference now to a cross sectional view of the exemplary rectenna is illustrated. As depicted the nanoantenna includes a plurality of parallel bars . In a non limiting example a period P of the grating formed by the bars can be between 1.0 and 10.0 m dependent on materials used and wavelength of radiation to be converted. In a more specific example the period of the grating can be approximately 3.0 m. Furthermore each of the bars may have a width W between 30 and 70 of the period. In a more particular example the width of each bar can be approximately 1.8 m. Generally the bars have a uniform width although it is contemplated that some bars in the grating may have widths different than other bars in the grating. Additionally the period of the grating or FSS may vary across the surface of the rectenna to broaden the bandwidth of the device. Therefore the nanoantenna is not limited to rectilinear designs but can include spirals or other shapes.

Further as indicated above the rectenna can comprise a relatively thin layer of insulator that is positioned between each of the bars and the conductive layer e.g. between the bars and the respective ridges of the conductive layer . The thickness of the layer of insulator can be between 2 nm and 5.5 nm. In a more specific example the thickness of the layer of insulator can be approximately 3.5 nm. The rectenna also includes silicon oxide that is layered over the nanoantenna such that the bars are separated from one another by silicon oxide. The rectenna also includes a supporting substrate . The combination of a metal bar the insulator and the conductive layer forms a rectifying tunnel diode e.g. the cross sectional view shown in depicts three tunnel diodes .

As can be ascertained in the rectenna rectifying tunnel diodes are produced along a length L of the rectenna . Due to the precision in which semiconductor manufacturing techniques can place layers of material together the tunnel diodes may have a relatively long length on the order of several inches if desired. Further as will be described in greater detail below the nanoantenna rather than being a periodic linear grating may be a FSS in which case the rectenna responds to light of both incident polarizations.

In view of the above it can be ascertained that the rectenna can be characterized as a large area IR nanoantenna with an integrated tunnel diode. The conductive layer can be for example a heavily n type doped silicon and the supporting substrate can be an n type epitaxial substrate which acts as an electrical contact. The layer of insulator can be grown directly on the conductive layer . The thin nature of the insulator allows for direct band to band tunneling between the metal of the bars and the conductive layer . Further as described above the entire rectenna can be over clad with a protective oxide to a depth of approximately 200 nm.

A brief explanation of operation of the rectenna follows. It has been observed that spatially for one period of the grating half of the tunnel diode is forward biased and half is reverse biased. The resulting sinusoidally varying voltage on the diode and the nonlinearity of the diode leads to a net DC current flow. The nonlinearity of the diode arises from its electronic band structure where electron tunnel currents result in relatively large diode asymmetry. Accordingly optimum target wavelength and bandwidth for the rectenna can be determined to best match the temperature of the radiation source the IR coupling and the diode nonlinearity. This implies that fabrication material selection nanoantenna design and operational temperatures are tightly coupled.

Electromagnetic modeling of the tunnel diode structures of the rectenna has been performed to examine the photon phonon enhancement in the nanometer scale insulator layer. The simulated structure had an insulator layer of 5 nm. The peak field enhancement was found to be 16 times the incident field values and was observed to be as large as 25 30 times the incident field values for different materials and design parameters. The large transverse field in the gap enhances the tunneling current under bias since the transverse field appears as a distributed bias voltage across the tunnel diode of the rectenna . The time varying electric field in the insulator layer acts as a distributed direct converter of IR radiation into rectified DC currents.

Referring now to an exemplary frequently selective surface is illustrated. The nanoantenna of the rectenna can be or include the frequency selective surface which is more fully described in the United States Patent referenced above. Use of the FSS as the nanoantenna may be advantageous over the grating depicted in since it is polarization independent resulting in potential improved performance.

Now referring to an exemplary methodology that facilitates forming a rectenna is illustrated. The methodology starts at and at a conductive layer is formed. At an insulator layer is formed directly on the conductive layer. As described above the insulator layer is thin on the order of 2 5 nm in thickness. At a metallic grating or FSS is formed on the insulator layer. This results in creation of a nanoantenna that is intimately integrated with a tunnel diode as the insulator layer acts as a tunnel barrier in the tunnel diode. The methodology completes at .

Now referring to an exemplary methodology for forming a rectenna is illustrated. The methodology starts at and a base wafer is provided. In an example the base wafer can be an N gettered 6 inch diameter base wafer. At an n type epitaxial silicon layer is grown on the base wafer. At a pad oxide layer is thermally grown on the n type epitaxial silicon layer. For example the pad oxide layer may be approximately 10 nm thick.

At a layer of low pressure chemical vapor deposition LPCVD silicon nitride cap layer is grown on the pad oxide layer. This cap layer is grown to prevent channeling and restrict dopant out diffusion. Thickness of the cap layer can be for example approximately 20 nm. Subsequently at a three stage heavy phosphorus implant can be performed. For instance the three stage implant can include a 120 KeV phosphorus implant at a dose of 1.5 10cm a 70 KeV phosphorus implant at 7.5 10cmand a 30 KeV phosphorus implant at 7.5 10cm. The phosphorus dose can intentionally spread in depth to avoid exceeding solubility limits locally and to distribute implant damage.

At a furnace anneal can be performed on the stack of layers. In an example the furnace anneal can be performed at 1050 C. for 60 minutes wherein such anneal serves to diffuse the dopant deeper into the wafer anneal damage and activate the dopant.

At the cap and pad oxide layers can be removed from the stack. In an example hot phosphoric and 6 1 buffered oxide etch BOE wet etches can be used to remove the cap and pad oxide layers. At pre diffusion cleanse can be performed e.g. 100 1 BOE 60 seconds SC1 SC2 dips 100 1 BOE 15 seconds .

At a thin layer of gate oxide is formed on the silicon layer. This can be accomplished through a short thermal oxidation at 900 C. on the n doped silicon surface thereby creating a thin e.g. 3.5 nm gate oxide. At a metallic layer is sputter deposited onto the gate oxide layer. For instance the metallic layer can be a 700 nm Al 1 Cu layer. At the above mentioned grating or FSS is patterned over the deposited metallic layer. In an example an ASML model 5500 248 nm DUV scanner using 1.2.6 m UV6L resist on a 60 nm AR2 bottom anti reflective layer can be used to pattern the nanoantenna.

At an etch over the exposed areas is performed such that exposed AlCu film areas are etched through and the etching continues on to trench into the oxide and silicon surface to a fixed target overetch depth. For instance this depth can be approximately 200 nm e.g. thereby forming the ridges in the conductive layer depicted in .

At following standard resist strip and post etch treatments ILD film can be deposited on the structure in an AMAT HDP tool. For example the ILD film can have a thickness of approximately 1.6 m. At the resultant stack is chemical mechanical polished to a target mean of 200 nm of oxide remaining over AlCu. At ASML DUV lithography without BARC is used to define metal pad openings for front contacts which are opened using a short fluorocarbon based dry etch in a AMAT eMXP Oxide Etch chamber. To provide for an effective back electrical contact wafer films can be wet stripped in a Semitool Raider backside etcher and finally a 700 nm AlCu layer is deposited on the wafer backside in an AMAT Endura PVD chamber. The methodology completes at .

Turning now to an exemplary methodology for utilizing the rectenna shown in is illustrated. The methodology begins at and at a rectenna is electrically coupled to a load. As described above the rectenna is configured to convert IR radiation to DC energy. At the rectenna is positioned relative to an IR source as desired. At the load is at least partially driven based upon DC energy emitted from the rectenna. The methodology completes at .

As used herein the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form. Additionally as used herein the term exemplary is intended to mean serving as an illustration or example of something and is not intended to indicate a preference and the term about refers to a range of 10 of the value to which the term applies.

All patents patent applications publications technical and or scholarly articles and other references cited or referred to herein are in their entirety incorporated herein by reference to the extent allowed by law. The discussion of those references is intended merely to summarize the assertions made therein. No admission is made that any such patents patent applications publications or references or any portion thereof are relevant material or prior art. The right to challenge the accuracy and pertinence of any assertion of such patents patent applications publications and other references as relevant material or prior art is specifically reserved.

In the description above for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details have been set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that one or more other embodiments may be practiced without some of these specific details. The particular embodiments described are not provided to limit the invention but to illustrate it. The scope of the invention is not to be determined by the specific examples provided above but only by the claims below. In other instances well known structures devices and operations have been shown in block diagram form or without detail in order to avoid obscuring the understanding of the description. Where considered appropriate reference numerals or terminal portions of reference numerals have been repeated among the figures to indicate corresponding or analogous elements which may optionally have similar characteristics.

What has been described above includes examples of one or more embodiments. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable modification and alteration of the above devices or methodologies for purposes of describing the aforementioned aspects but one of ordinary skill in the art can recognize that many further modifications and permutations of various aspects are possible. Accordingly the described aspects are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the detailed description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

It should also be appreciated that reference throughout this specification to one embodiment an embodiment one or more embodiments or different embodiments for example means that a particular feature may be included in the practice of the invention. Similarly it should be appreciated that in the description various features are sometimes grouped together in a single embodiment figure or description thereof for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure and aiding in the understanding of various inventive aspects. This method of disclosure however is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the invention requires more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive aspects may lie in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the claims following the Detailed Description are hereby expressly incorporated into this Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment of the invention.

