---

title: Management of memory refresh power consumption
abstract: Embodiments include a system, an apparatus, a device, and a method. The apparatus includes a processor, a dynamic memory, and a hardware-implemented memory control circuit. The hardware-implemented control circuit includes a control circuit for establishing an extended refresh period of the dynamic memory based at least in part on a monitored result that indicates an occurrence of a memory loss in the dynamic memory. The hardware-implemented control circuit also includes a control circuit for causing a refresh of the dynamic memory during each of at least two extended refresh periods.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09455035&OS=09455035&RS=09455035
owner: Invention Science Fund I, LLC
number: 09455035
owner_city: Bellevue
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150127
---
If an Application Data Sheet ADS has been filed on the filing date of this application it is incorporated by reference herein. Any applications claimed on the ADS for priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 120 121 or 365 c and any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of such applications are also incorporated by reference including any priority claims made in those applications and any material incorporated by reference to the extent such subject matter is not inconsistent herewith.

The present application is related to and or claims the benefit of the earliest available effective filing date s from the following listed application s the Priority Applications if any listed below e.g. claims earliest available priority dates for other than provisional patent applications or claims benefits under 35 U.S.C. 119 e for provisional patent applications for any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of the Priority Application s .

The United States Patent Office USPTO has published a notice to the effect that the USPTO s computer programs require that patent applicants reference both a serial number and indicate whether an application is a continuation continuation in part or divisional of a parent application. Stephen G. Kunin Benefit of Prior Filed Application USPTO Official Gazette Mar. 18 2003. The USPTO further has provided forms for the Application Data Sheet which allow automatic loading of bibliographic data but which require identification of each application as a continuation continuation in part or divisional of a parent application. The present Applicant Entity hereinafter Applicant has provided above a specific reference to the application s from which priority is being claimed as recited by statute. Applicant understands that the statute is unambiguous in its specific reference language and does not require either a serial number or any characterization such as continuation or continuation in part for claiming priority to U.S. patent applications. Notwithstanding the foregoing Applicant understands that the USPTO s computer programs have certain data entry requirements and hence Applicant has provided designation s of a relationship between the present application and its parent application s as set forth above and in any ADS filed in this application but expressly points out that such designation s are not to be construed in any way as any type of commentary and or admission as to whether or not the present application contains any new matter in addition to the matter of its parent application s .

If the listings of applications provided above are inconsistent with the listings provided via an ADS it is the intent of the Applicant to claim priority to each application that appears in the Priority Applications section of the ADS and to each application that appears in the Priority Applications section of this application.

All subject matter of the Priority Applications and the Related Applications and of any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of the Priority Applications and the Related Applications including any priority claims is incorporated herein by reference to the extent such subject matter is not inconsistent herewith.

If an Application Data Sheet ADS has been filed on the filing date of this application it is incorporated by reference herein. Any applications claimed on the ADS for priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 120 121 or 365 c and any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of such applications are also incorporated by reference including any priority claims made in those applications and any material incorporated by reference to the extent such subject matter is not inconsistent herewith.

An embodiment provides a method. The method includes determining in a hardware implemented controller an extended refresh period of a memory having a nominal refresh period. The extended refresh period based at least in part on a monitored result that indicates a discovered memory loss. The method also includes scheduling in the hardware implemented controller a refresh of the memory during the extended refresh period. The method may include monitoring a result from the memory for an indication of a discovered memory loss using the hardware implemented controller. The method may also include monitoring a result from the memory for an indication of a discovered memory loss solvable by a periodic refresh using the hardware implemented controller. The method may further include discovering a memory loss using the hardware implemented controller. The method may include testing the memory for an indication of a memory loss using the hardware implemented controller. In addition to the foregoing other method embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

Another embodiment provides a device. The device includes means for determining an extended refresh period of a memory having a nominal refresh period the extended refresh period based at least in part on a monitored result that indicates a discovered memory loss. The device also includes means for scheduling in the hardware implemented controller a refresh of the memory during the extended refresh period. The device may include means implemented in the hardware controller for monitoring a result from the memory for an indication of a memory loss. The device may further include means for causing a testing of the memory for an indication of a memory loss solvable by a cyclical refresh. In addition to the foregoing other device embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

A further embodiment provides an apparatus. The apparatus includes a processor a dynamic memory and a hardware implemented memory control circuit. The hardware implemented control circuit includes a control circuit for establishing an extended refresh period of the dynamic memory based at least in part on a monitored result that indicates an occurrence of a memory loss by the dynamic memory. The hardware implemented control circuit also includes a control circuit for causing a refresh of the dynamic memory during each of at least two extended refresh periods. The apparatus may include a semiconductor chip that includes the dynamic memory having a nominal refresh period the hardware implemented memory control circuit and the processor. The apparatus may also include a circuit board having the processor and the hardware implemented memory control circuit respectively operably coupled thereto and a communications interface operably coupled with the circuit board. The apparatus may further include a semiconductor chip that includes the processor the dynamic memory and the hardware implemented memory control circuit. The apparatus may further include a power supply a communications interface and a housing at least substantially enclosing the semiconductor chip the power supply and the communications interface. In addition to the foregoing other apparatus embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

An embodiment provides a method. The method includes periodically determining in a hardware implemented controller a refresh interval of a dynamic memory. The refresh interval being responsive to a monitored result that indicates a discovered retention loss of a content of the memory. The method also includes scheduling in the hardware implemented controller a refresh of the dynamic memory during each of at least two respective refresh intervals. The method may include monitoring a result of a memory operation that indicates a discovered retention loss of a content of the memory. The method may include discovering a retention loss of a content of the memory. In addition to the foregoing other method embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

Another embodiment provides a device. The device includes means for periodically determining a refresh interval of a dynamic memory. The refresh interval is responsive to a monitored result that indicates a discovered retention loss of a content of the memory. The device also includes means for scheduling a refresh of the dynamic memory during each of at least two respective refresh intervals. In addition to the foregoing other device embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

A further embodiment provides a memory controller implemented in hardware. The memory controller includes an evaluation module operable to determine periodically a refresh interval of a dynamic memory. The refresh interval is responsive to a monitored result that indicates a discovered retention loss of a content of the dynamic memory. The memory controller also includes a manager module operable to schedule a refresh of the dynamic memory during each of at least refresh intervals. In addition to the foregoing other embodiments of a memory controller implemented in hardware are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

An embodiment provides a device. The device includes a memory that requires a periodic refresh and having a nominal refresh period and a processor operably coupled with the memory. The device also includes a hardware implemented control circuit for periodically discovering a retention time of at least a portion of the memory that requires a periodic refresh. The hardware implemented control circuit is also for determining a refresh period that is not more than the discovered retention time of the at least a portion of the memory that requires a periodic refresh and for scheduling a refresh of the at least a portion of the memory that requires a periodic refresh at least once each refresh period. The device may include a semiconductor chip that includes the memory that requires a periodic refresh the hardware implemented control circuit and the processor operably coupled with the memory that requires a periodic refresh. The device may further include a circuit board a semiconductor chip operably coupled with the circuit board and that includes the processor and the hardware implemented control circuit and a communications interface. The device may further include a circuit board operably coupled with memory the processor and the hardware implemented control circuit a power supply and a housing that encloses the power supply and the circuit board.

The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. In addition to the illustrative aspects embodiments and features described above further aspects embodiments and features will become apparent by reference to the drawings and the following detailed description.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrated embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented here.

The computing system environment typically includes a variety of computer readable media products. Computer readable media may include any media that can be accessed by the computing device and include both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not of limitation computer readable media may include computer storage media and communications media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media include but are not limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computing device . Communications media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communications media include wired media such as a wired network and a direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF optical and infrared media. Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and nonvolatile memory such as ROM and RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computing device such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and program modules that are immediately accessible to or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates an operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Often the operating system offers services to applications programs by way of one or more application programming interfaces APIs not shown . Because the operating system incorporates these services developers of applications programs need not redevelop code to use the services. Examples of APIs provided by operating systems such as Microsoft s WINDOWS are well known in the art. In an embodiment an information store may include a computer storage media.

The computing device may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media products. By way of example only illustrates a non removable non volatile memory interface hard disk interface that reads from and writes to non removable non volatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from and writes to a removable non volatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from and writes to a removable non volatile optical disk such as a CD ROM. Other removable nonremovable volatile non volatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards DVDs digital video tape solid state RAM and solid state ROM. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as the interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable non volatile memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing device . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing an operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from the operating system application programs other program modules and program data . The operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies. A user may enter commands and information into the computing device through input devices such as a microphone keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown may include a joystick game pad satellite dish and scanner. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . In addition to the monitor computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

The computing system environment may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computing device although only a memory storage device has been illustrated in . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks such as a personal area network PAN not shown . Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computing system environment is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computing device typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the user input interface or via another appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computing device or portions thereof may be stored in a remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on computer storage medium . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

In the description that follows certain embodiments may be described with reference to acts and symbolic representations of operations that are performed by one or more computing devices such as the computing device of . As such it will be understood that such acts and operations which are at times referred to as being computer executed include the manipulation by the processing unit of the computer of electrical signals representing data in a structured form. This manipulation transforms the data or maintains them at locations in the memory system of the computer which reconfigures or otherwise alters the operation of the computer in a manner well understood by those skilled in the art. The data structures in which data is maintained are physical locations of the memory that have particular properties defined by the format of the data. However while an embodiment is being described in the foregoing context it is not meant to be limiting as those of skill in the art will appreciate that the acts and operations described hereinafter may also be implemented in hardware.

Embodiments may be implemented with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing devices and computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and configurations that may be suitable for use with an embodiment include but are not limited to personal computers handheld or laptop devices personal digital assistants multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network minicomputers server computers game server computers web server computers mainframe computers and distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices.

Embodiments may be described in a general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. An embodiment may also be practiced in a distributed computing environment where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

The operation determines in a hardware implemented controller an extended refresh period of a memory having a nominal refresh period. The memory including at least one of a single inline memory module a dual inline memory module and or a small outline dual in line memory module and the extended refresh period based at least in part on a monitored result that indicates a discovered memory loss.

The operation determines in a hardware implemented controller an extended refresh period of a memory having a nominal refresh period. The extended refresh period is based at least in part both on a monitored result that indicates a discovered memory loss and on a targeted reduction of power consumed by the memory compared to a power consumed by the memory using the nominal refresh period. For example a conservative targeted reduction of power consumed by memory refresh may include determining an approximate midpoint between a nominal refresh period of 64 ms and a discovered memory loss at 24000 ms such as for example selecting an extended refresh period of 12000 ms. By way of further example an aggressive targeted reduction of power consumed over a period of time by memory refresh may include determining an extended refresh period of 20000 ms for the same parameters.

In an alternative embodiment the device may include means implemented in the hardware controller for monitoring a result from the memory for an indication of a memory loss. In another alternative embodiment the device may include means for causing a testing of the memory for an indication of a memory loss.

In an alternative embodiment the hardware implemented memory control circuit further includes a hardware implemented memory control circuit for establishing an extended refresh period of a dynamic memory having a nominal refresh period. The extended refresh period may be based at least in part on a monitored result that indicates an occurrence of a memory loss in the dynamic memory and the extended refresh period being a longer period of time than the nominal refresh period. In another embodiment the hardware implemented memory control circuit further includes a hardware implemented memory control circuit for establishing an extended refresh period of the dynamic memory based at least in part on a monitored result that indicates an occurrence of a memory loss solvable by a periodic refresh of the dynamic memory. In a further embodiment the hardware implemented memory control circuit further includes a hardware implemented memory control circuit for periodically establishing an extended refresh period of the dynamic memory based at least in part on a monitored result that indicates an occurrence of a memory loss in the dynamic memory.

In an alternative embodiment the hardware implemented further includes a hardware implemented memory control circuit implemented in at least one of a transistor a firmware and or a microengine and for establishing an extended refresh period of the dynamic memory based at least in part on a monitored result that indicates an occurrence of a memory loss in the dynamic memory. In another alternative embodiment the hardware implemented memory control circuit further includes a hardware implemented memory control circuit for causing a refresh of the dynamic memory during each of at least two extended refresh periods in lieu of a refresh of the dynamic memory during each of at least two nominal refresh periods. In a further embodiment the hardware implemented memory control circuit further includes a hardware implemented memory control circuit for causing a refresh of the dynamic memory during each of at least two extended refresh periods and for causing a refresh power consumption reduction by the dynamic memory when compared to a refresh of the dynamic memory during each of at least two nominal refresh periods.

The apparatus may include a semiconductor chip that includes the processor and the hardware implemented memory control circuit. The apparatus may also include a circuit board having the processor and the hardware implemented memory control circuit respectively operably coupled thereto and a communications interface operably coupled with the circuit board. The communications interface may include a wired and or a wireless communication interface. A wired communications interface may include a wired network communications interface usable in communicating with a LAN WAN a private network and or a public network such as the Internet. A wireless communications interface may include a wireless network interface and or cellular network. The apparatus may further include a semiconductor chip that includes the processor and the hardware implemented memory control circuit a power supply and a housing that encloses the power supply and the semiconductor chip.

In an embodiment the apparatus may include a communications interface and a circuit board . The circuit board having the hardware implemented memory control circuit the processor the dynamic memory and the communications interface respectively operably coupled thereto. In another embodiment the apparatus may include the power supply . In a further embodiment the apparatus may include a housing at least substantially enclosing a circuit board having the hardware implemented memory control circuit the processor the dynamic memory and the communications interface respectively operably coupled thereto.

In an embodiment the apparatus may include a semiconductor chip that includes the processor the dynamic memory and the hardware implemented memory control circuit . The apparatus also includes a power supply and a communications interface and a housing that at least substantially encloses the semiconductor chip the power supply and the communications interface.

In an embodiment of the apparatus the dynamic memory having a nominal refresh period includes a dynamic memory implemented in at least one of a single inline memory module a dual inline memory module a fully buffered dual inline memory module and or a small outline dual in line memory module. In another embodiment the dynamic memory having a nominal refresh period includes a dynamic memory implemented in at least one of an information storage a memory chip and or a silicon memory chip. In a further embodiment the dynamic memory having a nominal refresh period includes a dynamic memory implemented in at least one of a quantum memory a photonic quantum memory and or atomic quantum memory. In another embodiment the dynamic memory having a nominal refresh period includes a dynamic memory implemented in at least one of a DRAM an EDO DRAM a SDRAM a RDRAM a VRAM and or a DDR DRAM.

In operation of an embodiment the hardware implemented memory control circuit may be implemented in the hub architecture such as the memory control hub . The memory control hub establishes an extended refresh period of the dynamic memory based at least in part on a monitored result that indicates an occurrence of a memory loss in the dynamic memory. In an embodiment the memory control hub begins establishing an extended refresh period during or after an end user initial startup of the computing system environment . In an alternative embodiment the control hub begins establishing an extended refresh period after an assembly of the computing system environment . For example the monitored result that indicates an occurrence of a memory loss in the dynamic memory may include a result indicating that the shortest retention time of any page of the dynamic memory is 7500 milliseconds ms . For example the extended refresh period may be established as 6400 ms. After the extended refresh period for the dynamic memory is established the memory control hub causes a refresh of the dynamic memory during each of at least two extended refresh periods. Continuing with the above example refreshing the dynamic memory once each 6400 ms instead of each 64 ms results in a one hundred fold savings of power expended to refresh the dynamic memory.

Embodiments may be implemented in other exemplary systems including components manufactured by other manufacturers and or having different architectures. Other embodiments may be implemented in embedded systems and may be advantageous in low power dissipation systems.

In an embodiment the evaluation module includes an evaluation module implemented in at least one of a transistor a firmware and or a microengine. In another embodiment the manager module includes a manger module implemented in at least one of a transistor a firmware and or a microengine. In a further embodiment the evaluation module further includes an evaluation module operable to periodically determine a refresh interval of a dynamic memory. The refresh interval designed to reduce power consumed over a time refreshing the dynamic memory. In another embodiment the evaluation module further includes an evaluation module operable to periodically determine a refresh interval of a dynamic memory. The refresh interval is based on a monitored result that indicates a discovered retention loss of a content of the dynamic memory. The periodically includes at least one of a time period an age period of the memory a periodic measure of memory usage and or a response to an outcome of a memory operation.

In an embodiment the hardware implemented control circuit further includes a hardware implemented control circuit for periodically discovering a retention time of at least a portion of the memory that requires a periodic refresh. The periodically includes at least one of a period of time an age period of the memory a periodic measure of memory usage and or a response to an outcome of a memory operation. In another embodiment the hardware implemented control circuit further includes a hardware implemented control circuit for selecting a refresh period that is no greater than the discovered retention time of the at least a portion of the memory that requires a periodic refresh. In a further embodiment the hardware implemented control circuit further includes a hardware implemented control circuit for causing a refresh of the at least a portion of the memory that requires a periodic refresh at least once each refresh period.

In an embodiment the device includes a semiconductor chip that includes the memory that requires a periodic refresh and the hardware implemented control circuit . In another embodiment a semiconductor chip includes the memory that requires a periodic refresh the hardware implemented control circuit and the processor operably coupled with the memory that requires a periodic refresh. In a further embodiment device includes a circuit board that operably couples the processor operably coupled with the memory and the hardware implemented control circuit.

In an embodiment the device includes a semiconductor chip that includes the processor operably coupled with the memory and the hardware implemented control circuit . In another embodiment the device includes the circuit board and a semiconductor chip . The semiconductor chip is operably coupled with the circuit board and includes the processor and the hardware implemented control circuit. The device also includes a communications interface . In a further embodiment the device includes a semiconductor chip that includes the processor and the hardware implemented control circuit. The device also includes a power supply and a housing that encloses the power supply and the semiconductor chip. In an embodiment the power supply is configured to electrically couple with a portable power source not shown and operable to provide power to the device. In an embodiment the configuration of the power supply to accept the portable power source imparts mobility and or portability to a thin computing device and thus to the device. The device may include a handheld device a wireless device a camera a laptop computer a game console a cell phone a pager a PDA a global positioning system a satellite media player an electronic scanner an electronic book reader and or a browsing device. In another embodiment the power supply includes a power supply configured to electrically couple with a replaceable portable power source and operable to provide power to the device. In a further embodiment the power supply includes a power supply configured to electrically couple with a selectively replaceable portable power source and operable to provide power to the device. In an embodiment the power supply includes a power supply configured to electrically couple with a rechargeable portable power source and operable to provide power to the device. In another embodiment the power supply includes a power supply configured to electrically couple with at least one of a battery a rechargeable battery a replaceable battery a fuel cell an energy harvesting system a capacitor and or a selectively removable power source and operable to provide power to the device.

In an embodiment the power supply includes a power supply electrically coupled with at least one of a battery a rechargeable battery a replaceable battery a fuel cell an energy harvesting system a capacitor and or a selectively removable power source and operable to provide power to the device. In another embodiment the power supply includes a power supply configured to electrically couple with a portable power source and operable to provide power to the device. In a further embodiment the power supply includes at least one of a DC DC regulated power supply a controllable power supply and or programmable power supply configured to electrically couple with a portable power source and operable to provide power to the device.

In an embodiment the device includes a circuit board operably coupled with memory the processor and the hardware implemented control circuit . The device also includes the power supply and the housing that encloses the power supply and the circuit board. In another embodiment the device includes a circuit board operably coupled with memory the processor and the hardware implemented control circuit. The device also includes the power supply the communications interface and the housing that carries the circuit board the power supply and communications interface.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the devices and or processes via the use of block diagrams flow diagrams operation diagrams flowcharts illustrations and or examples. Insofar as such block diagrams operation diagrams flowcharts illustrations and or examples contain one or more functions and or operations it will be understood that each function and or operation within such block diagrams operation diagrams flowcharts illustrations or examples can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof unless otherwise indicated. A particular block diagram operation diagram flowchart illustration environment and or example should not be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement relating to any one or combination of components illustrated therein. For example in certain instances one or more elements of an environment may be deemed not necessary and omitted. In other instances one or more other elements may be deemed necessary and added.

In addition those skilled in the art will appreciate that the mechanisms of the subject matter described herein are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that an illustrative embodiment of the subject matter described herein applies equally regardless of the particular type of signal bearing media used to actually carry out the distribution. Examples of a signal bearing media include but are not limited to the following recordable type media such as floppy disks hard disk drives CD ROMs digital tape and computer memory and transmission type media such as digital and analog communication links using TDM or IP based communication links e.g. packet links .

It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to inventions containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should typically be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should typically be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers typically means at least two recitations or two or more recitations . Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . In those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B or C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B or C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. .

The herein described aspects depict different components contained within or connected with different other components. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely exemplary and that in fact many other architectures can be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively associated such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality can be seen as associated with each other such that the desired functionality is achieved irrespective of architectures or intermedial components. Likewise any two components so associated can also be viewed as being operably connected or operably coupled to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Any two components capable of being so associated can also be viewed as being operably couplable to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Specific examples of operably couplable include but are not limited to physically mateable and or physically interacting components and or wirelessly interactable and or wirelessly interacting components.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

