---

title: Method and apparatus for providing a mobile video blog service
abstract: A method and apparatus for providing a mobile video blog (vlog) service in a communication network are disclosed. For example, the method captures video content sourced from a mobile device used by a mobile user through a mobile vlog posting service portal, and provides a vlog viewing function accessible to a viewer through a vlog viewing service portal, wherein the vlog viewing function affords viewing of the video content and is provided in accordance with a user profile of the viewer, wherein the user profile comprises a viewing preference of the viewer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09584865&OS=09584865&RS=09584865
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, L.P.
number: 09584865
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151102
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 437 600 filed Apr. 2 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 178 961 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 341 660 filed Dec. 22 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 150 464 all of which are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The present invention relates generally to wireless communication networks and more particularly to a method and apparatus for converging a wireless subscriber community and a web community by providing a mobile video blog service.

Existing web log blog or video blog vlog allows mobile device users to post contents with the convenience of their mobile devices. However these blogs or vlogs operate independently from the wireless networks and the subscriber profiles of the mobile device users from the wireless networks who view these blog or vlog are not available to the blog operator or vlog operator.

In one embodiment the present invention discloses a method and apparatus for providing a mobile video blog vlog service in a communication network. For example the method captures video content sourced from a mobile device used by a mobile user through a mobile vlog posting service portal and provides a vlog viewing function accessible to a viewer through a vlog viewing service portal wherein the vlog viewing function affords viewing of the video content and is provided in accordance with a user profile of the viewer wherein the user profile comprises a viewing preference of the viewer.

To facilitate understanding identical reference numerals have been used where possible to designate identical elements that are common to the figures.

As discussed above existing web log blog or video blog vlog allows mobile device users to post contents with the convenience of their mobile devices. However these blogs or vlogs operate independently from the wireless networks and the subscriber profiles of the mobile device users from the wireless networks who view these blog or vlog are not available to the blog or vlog operator.

By integrating subscriber profiles of the wireless device users with blog or vlog operations a wireless service provider can benefit from the convergence of the web community with the wireless subscriber community. For example subscriber profile data e.g. wireless users usage patterns preferences and the like from a wireless network can be leveraged to support marketing initiatives such as advertisement ad insertions.

To address this need embodiments of the present invention enable the convergence of the wireless subscriber community and the web community by providing a mobile video blog service e.g. posting of vlogs and or viewing of vlogs via one or more portals . In one embodiment the present invention enables the convergence of the wireless subscriber community and the web community by providing a mobile video blog service by integrating mobile video log vlog applications with an Internet Protocol Multimedia Subsystem IMS network.

Broadly defined IMS is an architectural framework for delivering Internet Protocol IP multimedia to mobile users defined by the standard body 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP . This integration with IMS allows a mobile vlog service to use subscriber data from the Home Subscriber Server HSS in an IMS network for user profile information that can be leveraged for intelligent revenue generating functions such as ad insertion or presentation. In one embodiment the HSS is an IP based Authentication Authorization and or Accounting AAA server that contains a master database for storing subscriber profiles broadly referred to as user profiles registration data and network policy rules.

In one embodiment the present invention provides a web browser based application that supports video editing functionality and live video streaming integration for live events through a mobile video blog vlog posting service portal. For example the videos from the mobile device can be streamed in real time for live capture events or as uploaded video files. The application integrates these videos into a blog format via a mobile vlog posting service portal thereby creating the mobile video blog. These video blogs can be shared to a community both public and private as specified within the browser based application by the vlogger.

In one embodiment the features of this browser based application may include a subscriber login portal blog templates that a vlogger can select browser based video editing capabilities like adding fades video effects or splicing functionality category and key words assignment post to web server functionality both as uploaded video file or live streaming video and community or social networking video sharing via an Application Programming Interface API support.

In one embodiment the present invention can also allow a mobile vlogger to opt in for ad insertion capabilities and revenue sharing opportunities. For example this application allows amateur journalists who wish to offer either live or uploaded mobile vlog to capture live or eyewitness news. Journalism companies can create APIs into the application to filter the amateur journalist contents posted in various categories to be used for broadcast or re broadcast. In addition these companies can use the present invention to validate contents and news by contacting the amateur journalist who posted the vlog contents via integrated email or instant messaging IM .

Additionally as part of this application a community viewing service portal broadly referred to as video blog vlog viewing service portal is supported to allow viewers to view live streaming or uploaded video file contents via their personal computers laptops or mobile devices via the World Wide Web that have been posted by mobile vloggers. Note that viewers are different from mobile vloggers where viewers view video contents posted by mobile vloggers. In one embodiment features of the community viewing portal include the ability e.g. one or more functions to comment and reply on a mobile vlog rate a mobile vlog view vlogs by groups and categories view vlogs by the most viewed view vlogs by the highest rating and so on.

In one embodiment the IMS network comprises a mobile video blog vlog server which supports mobile vlog functions and a Presence Server PS which supports presence related functions associated with users in the IMS network . Note that mobile vlog server is a separate application server in the IMS network for supporting mobile vlog related applications of the present invention. Furthermore although the mobile video blog vlog server is illustrated as being deployed within the IMS network the mobile video blog vlog server can be deployed in a wireless network in an alternate embodiment. Home Subscriber Server HSS is an IP based Authentication Authorization and or Accounting AAA server that contains a master database for storing subscriber profiles registration data and network policy rules in IMS network . Presence Server PS manages information on a user s location context presence e.g. current location availability preferred means of communication etc. and enables communication services to take advantage of the presence related information.

In one embodiment mobile device endpoints and are all subscribers of the IMS network . Personal computer device endpoint is also a subscriber of the IMS network . For example mobile device may access the mobile vlog server in the IMS network via the wireless access network using flow whereas mobile device may access mobile vlog server in the IMS network via wireless access network using flow . PC device may access the mobile vlog server in the IMS network via the ISP network using flow .

In one embodiment mobile devices and may include second generation 2G mobile phone third generation 3G mobile phone fourth generation 4G mobile phone smart phone and personal digital assistant PDA that support 2G 3G 4G cellular WiMAX and WiFi network connectivity. Wireless access networks and may include 2G cellular networks 3G cellular networks 4G cellular networks of which Long Term Evolution LTE is an example WiFi networks WiMAX networks and the like. It should be noted that the present invention is not limited to any particular type of wireless access network.

Broadly defined Wi Fi is a wireless local area network WLAN technology based on the Institute of Electrical Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.11 standards. WiMAX is a wireless metropolitan are network MAN technology based on the Institute of Electrical Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.16 standards. 2G is the second generation cellular network technology while 3G is the third generation cellular network technology and 4G is the fourth generation cellular network technology.

In addition Video Content Server may access the mobile vlog server in the IMS network via an enterprise network which is connected to the IMS network but is independently operated using flow .

In one embodiment the user of the mobile device is a mobile video blog user vlogger . The mobile vlogger accesses a mobile video blog vlog posting service portal that is supported by the mobile vlog server using the mobile device via flow .

In one embodiment mobile vlog server provides a web browser based application to the mobile device to support video editing functionality and live video streaming integration for live events. Using this application video capture components of the mobile device including camera video codecs and any other video capture capabilities are integrated. The videos captured by the mobile device can be streamed in real time for live capture events or uploaded as video files. The web browser based application integrates these videos into a blog format via the mobile vlog posting service portal thereby creating the mobile video blog. In one embodiment the browser based application may provide classifications of the vlogs by categories e.g. amateur journalism entertainment personal and so on that can be selected and classified by the vlogger. These video blogs can then be shared to a community both public and private as specified within the application by the mobile vlogger.

In one embodiment the features of this web browser based application may include a subscriber login portal blog templates that a mobile vlogger can select browser based video editing capabilities or functions like adding fades video effects or splicing functionality category and key words assignment post to web server functionality both as uploaded video file or live streaming video and community or social networking capabilities to tie captured videos into other social networking communities e.g. YouTube of San Mateo Calif. Veoh of San Diego Calif. MySpace of Santa Monica Calif. Facebook of Palo Alto Calif. and the like through Application Programming Interfaces APIs .

In one embodiment mobile vlog server may also allow the vlogger of mobile device to opt in for ad insertion capabilities and revenue sharing opportunities. If the vlogger chooses to opt in for the ad insertion feature then ads relevant to a viewer will be inserted or presented by mobile vlog server when the viewer initiates a vlog viewing session.

In one embodiment the user of the mobile device is a video blog viewer. The user or the viewer accesses a video blog vlog viewing service portal supported by the mobile vlog server by using the mobile device via flow .

In one embodiment the mobile vlog server provides a web browser based application to the mobile device to allow the viewer to view live streaming or uploaded video contents via the mobile device through the World Wide Web that have been posted by the mobile vlogger of mobile device . Note that vlog viewers are different from mobile vloggers where viewers view video contents posted by mobile vloggers.

Features of the vlog viewing service portal may include the ability to comment and reply on a mobile vlog rate a mobile vlog view vlogs by groups and categories view vlogs by the most viewed view vlogs by the highest rating and so on.

In one embodiment if the mobile vlogger has opted in for the ad insertion feature mobile vlog server may retrieve subscriber profile data of the viewer of the mobile device from HSS using flow to insert ads that are relevant to the viewer when a vlog viewing session is initiated. In one embodiment HSS contains information of the viewer using the mobile device including usage patterns and various preferences that can be used to select relevant ads to be inserted according to this subscriber profile information.

Broadly defined usage patterns pertain to a method that monitors the usage pattern of a user thereby learning the preference of the user. For example a monitoring method may monitor the type of videos that is being accessed by a viewer or the comments provided by the viewer after viewing a video thereby deducing the type of videos that the user prefers to watch.

Alternatively a viewer may actively define a viewing preference during a setup process a subscription process or a viewing preference update process. For example a viewer may define that he prefers subject matters that pertains to sports news breaking news only weather financial topics celebrity news events pertaining to a specific geographic region e.g. a continent a country a state a county a town and the like events pertaining to a specific person e.g. a specific politician a specific athlete a specific celebrity and so on events pertaining to a specific organization e.g. a political organization a charitable organization a technical organization a particular company a trade organization a sports organization and the like . Thus unlike usage pattern detection where a monitoring method is attempting to guess at the interest of the viewer or simple user association with other users e.g. association of the user to other users becomes a triggering or filtering parameter for accessing content the viewing preference as defined by a viewer will allow the viewer to set a definitive boundary of his viewing preference with specificity and a high level of granularity that is not available through the use usage pattern detection. Thru the use of the viewing preference a viewer will avoid receiving information that is not interest to the viewer.

It should be noted that in one embodiment an option can also be presented to the viewer of the vlog as to whether the viewer is willing to opt in for receiving ads. In the previous example the viewer does not have this option. For example a viewer may receive some rewards or incentives for opting in to receive such ads e.g. discounts on products or services free usage of a service feature provided by a network service provider and the like.

In another embodiment mobile vlog server may retrieve the latest presence information of mobile device from the PS using flow . Using the most current location information of the mobile device mobile vlog server can determine the most relevant ads that can be inserted. For example if it is determined that the mobile device is proximate to a particular retail store or a particular restaurant then related ads associated with that particular retail store or that particular restaurant can be inserted when the viewer using the mobile device initiates a vlog viewing session with the mobile vlog server .

In one embodiment the user of the PC device is a video bog viewer. The user or the viewer accesses a video blog vlog viewing service portal that is supported by the mobile vlog server using PC via flow e.g. a wire based connection .

Mobile vlog server may provide a web browser based application to the PC to allow the viewer to view live streaming or uploaded video contents via the PC through the World Wide Web that have been posted by mobile vlogger of the mobile device . Again note that viewers using the PC are different from the mobile vloggers where viewers view video contents posted by the mobile vloggers.

Similarly features of the vlog viewing service portal accessed by the PC device may include the ability to comment and reply on a mobile vlog rate a mobile vlog view vlogs by groups and categories view vlogs by the most viewed view vlogs by the highest rating and so on.

In one embodiment if the mobile vlogger has opted in for the ad insertion feature then mobile vlog server may retrieve subscriber profile data of the viewer of the PC from HSS using flow to insert ads that are relevant to the viewer when a viewing session is initiated. In one embodiment HSS contains information of the viewer using PC including usage patterns and preferences that can be used to select relevant ads to be inserted according to the subscriber profile information.

In one embodiment video content server is a content server owned and operated by an enterprise that may utilize video contents in a business operation e.g. a journalism company or news organization. The journalism company has created one or more APIs into the web browser based application of the mobile vlog viewing service portal that is supported by the mobile vlog server . Through the APIs video content server will be able to filter the video contents e.g. amateur journalist video contents and to retrieve and store the filtered contents using flow . The filtered video contents can then be used for broadcast or re broadcast by the journalism company. In addition the journalism company can validate contents and news by contacting an amateur journalist who has posted the mobile vlog contents via email or instant messaging IM information embedded within the mobile vlog posted.

Method starts in step and proceeds to step . In step the method receives a login at the mobile vlog posting service portal by a mobile vlog user e.g. a mobile vlogger.

In step the method captures or receives video contents sent from a mobile device used by the mobile vlogger. For example video contents may comprise live streaming videos or uploaded video files.

In step the method provides one or more vlog templates that a mobile vlogger can select browser based video editing capabilities like adding fades video effects or splicing functionality and or category and key words assignment functions for labeling of the video contents. For example the method may provide support of video editing functionality and live video streaming integration for live events. Using a browser based application video capture components of the mobile device including camera video codecs and any other video capture capabilities are integrated. The browser based application integrates these videos into a blog format via the mobile vlog posting service portal thereby creating the mobile video blog. The application also allows a mobile vlogger to choose from a selection of vlog templates that can be used on the video contents. e.g. having a predefined layout or format and the like. For example the application may provide classification support of vlogs by categories such as amateur journalism entertainment or personal that can be selected and classified by the mobile vlogger.

In step the method allows the mobile vlogger to opt in for ad insertion. If the mobile vlogger chooses the ad insertion opt in option then relevant ads will be inserted to video viewing sessions initiated by viewers based on the viewers profile information.

In step the method enables the posted mobile vlog to be shared to a community both public and private as specified within the browser based application by the mobile vlogger. For example the method provides post to web server functionality both as uploaded video file or live streaming video and community or social networking capabilities to tie captured videos into other social networking communities through Application Programming Interfaces API . The method ends in step .

Method starts in step and proceeds to step . In step the method receives a login at the vlog viewing service portal by a vlog viewer e.g. broadly a viewer. Note that the viewer can access the mobile posted vlog using mobile or non mobile devices.

In step the method retrieves the subscriber profile information of the viewer from a HSS. Furthermore the method may also retrieve the current location information of the viewer from a PS if appropriate e.g. when the device used by the viewer is a mobile device.

In step the method uses the retrieved subscriber profile and or viewer s current location information to insert ads relevant to the viewer when a viewing session is initiated. For example HSS contains information of the viewer including usage patterns and preferences e.g. gender of the viewer age of the viewer viewing preference of the viewers such as sports current events financial news traffic news weather shopping patterns and so on that can be used to select relevant ads to be inserted according to the subscriber or viewer profile information. Furthermore in the case that the endpoint device is a mobile device the current location information of mobile device retrieved from the PS can be used to determine the relevant ads that can be inserted based on location information associated with the mobile device that is being used for viewing the vlog.

In step the method provides support of live streaming or uploaded file video contents viewing to the viewer. In one embodiment the method provides a web browser based application to allow the viewer to view live streaming or uploaded video contents via the World Wide Web that have been posted by mobile vloggers. In another embodiment the method supports an API that can be used by external users such as journalism companies to filter mobile vlog contents and to retrieve them to an external content server for broadcast or rebroadcast purposes.

In step the method provides mobile vlog related feature support to the viewer. For example using the browser based application the method supports features of mobile vlog viewing that may include the ability to comment and reply on a mobile vlog rate a mobile vlog view vlogs by groups and categories view mobile vlogs by the most viewed view mobile vlogs by the highest rating and so on. The method ends in step .

It should be noted one or more steps of methods and can be deemed to be optional. For example steps and can be omitted.

It should be noted that although not specifically specified one or more steps of methods and may include a storing displaying and or outputting step as required for a particular application. In other words any data records fields and or intermediate results discussed in the methods and can be stored displayed and or outputted to another device as required for a particular application. Furthermore steps or blocks in that recite a determining operation or involve a decision do not necessarily require that both branches of the determining operation be practiced. In other words one of the branches of the determining operation can be deemed as an optional step.

It should be noted that the present invention can be implemented in software and or in a combination of software and hardware e.g. using application specific integrated circuits ASIC a general purpose computer or any other hardware equivalents. In one embodiment the present module or process for converging wireless subscriber community and web community by using a mobile video blog and service portal can be loaded into memory and executed by processor to implement the functions as discussed above. As such the present process for converging wireless subscriber community and web community by using a mobile video blog and service portal including associated data structures of the present invention can be stored on a computer readable medium e.g. RAM memory magnetic or optical drive or diskette and the like.

While various embodiments have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only and not limitation. Thus the breadth and scope of a preferred embodiment should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

