---

title: Cytotoxic benzodiazepine derivatives
abstract: The invention relates to novel benzodiazepine derivatives with antiproliferative activity and more specifically to novel benzodiazepine compounds of formula (I)-(VII). The invention also provides conjugates of the benzodiazepine compounds linked to a cell-binding agent. The invention further provides compositions and methods useful for inhibiting abnormal cell growth or treating a proliferative disorder in a mammal using the compounds or conjugates of the invention.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09434748&OS=09434748&RS=09434748
owner: ImmunoGen, Inc.
number: 09434748
owner_city: Waltham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150909
---
This application is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 512 059 filed Oct. 10 2014 which is a continuation application of Ser. No. 13 827 355 filed Mar. 14 2013 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 889 669 on Nov. 18 2014 which is a continuation application of Ser. No. 13 397 195 filed Feb. 15 2012 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 765 740 on Jul. 1 2014 which claims the benefit of the filing date under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 443 062 filed on Feb. 15 2011 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 483 499 filed on May 6 2011 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 443 092 filed on Feb. 15 2011. The entire contents of each of the above referenced applications including all drawings formulae sequence listings specifications and claims are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to novel cytotoxic compounds and cytotoxic conjugates comprising these cytotoxic compounds and cell binding agents. More specifically this invention relates to novel benzodiazepine compounds derivatives thereof intermediates thereof conjugates thereof and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof which are useful as medicaments in particular as anti proliferative agents.

Benzodiazepine derivatives are useful compounds for treating various disorders and include medicaments such as antiepileptics imidazo 2 1 b 1 3 5 benzothiadiazepines U.S. Pat. No. 4 444 688 U.S. Pat. No. 4 062 852 antibacterials pyrimido 1 2 c 1 3 5 benzothiadiazepines GB 1476684 diuretics and hypotensives pyrrolo 1 2 b 1 2 5 benzothiadiazepine 5 5 dioxide U.S. Pat. No. 3 506 646 hypolipidemics WO 03091232 anti depressants U.S. Pat. No. 3 453 266 osteoporosis JP 2138272 .

Recently it has been shown in animal tumor models that benzodiazepine derivatives such as pyrrolobenzodiazepines PBDs act as anti tumor agents N 2 imidazolyl alkyl substituted 1 2 5 benzothiadiazepine 1 1 dioxide U.S. Pat. No. 6 156 746 benzo pyrido or dipyrido thiadiazepine WO 2004 069843 pyrrolo 1 2 b benzothiadiazepines and pyrrolo 1 2 b 1 2 5 benzodiazepine derivatives WO2007 015280 tomaymycin derivatives e.g. pyrrolo 1 4 benzodiazepines such as those described in WO 00 12508 WO2005 085260 WO2007 085930 and EP 2019104. Benzodiazepines are also known to affect cell growth and differentiation Kamal A. et al. Bioorg Med Chem. 2008 Aug. 15 16 16 7804 10 and references cited therein Kumar R Mini Rev Med Chem. 2003 June 3 4 323 39 and references cited therein Bednarski J J et al. 2004 Sutter A. P et al. 2002 Blatt N B et al. 2002 Kamal A. et al. Current Med. Chem. 2002 2 215 254 Wang J J. J. Med. Chem. 2206 49 1442 1449 Alley M. C. et al. Cancer Res. 2004 64 6700 6706 Pepper C. J. Cancer Res 2004 74 6750 6755 Thurston D. E. and Bose D. S. Chem Rev 1994 94 433 465 and Tozuka Z. et al. Journal of Antibiotics 1983 36 1699 1708. General structure of PBDs is described in US Publication Number 20070072846. The PBDs differ in the number type and position of substituents in both their aromatic A rings and pyrrolo C rings and in the degree of saturation of the C ring. Their ability to form an adduct in the minor groove and crosslink DNA enables them to interfere with DNA processing hence their potential for use as antiproliferative agents.

The first pyrrolobenzodiazepine to enter the clinic SJG 136 NSC 694501 is a potent cytotoxic agent that causes DNA inter strand crosslinks S. G Gregson et al. 2001 44 737 748 M. C. Alley et al. 2004 64 6700 6706 J. A. Hartley et al. 2004 64 6693 6699 C. Martin et al. 2005 44 4135 4147 S. Arnould et al. 20065 1602 1509 . Results from a Phase I clinical evaluation of SJG 136 revealed that this drug was toxic at extremely low doses maximum tolerated dose of 45 g m and several adverse effects were noted including vascular leak syndrome peripheral edema liver toxicity and fatigue. DNA damage was noted at all doses in circulating lymphocytes D. Hochhauser et al. 2009 15 2140 2147 . Thus there exists a need for improved benzodiazepine derivatives that are less toxic and still therapeutically active for treating a variety of proliferative disease states such as cancer.

Cytotoxic benzodiazepine dimers disclosed in the art possess two imine functionalities in their free form or reversibly protected form such as a hydrate alkoxylate or sulfonate. The presence of these two imine functionalities results in crosslinking of DNA S. G. Gregson et al. 2001 44 737 748 . The present invention is partly based on the unexpected finding that cell binding agent conjugates of new cytotoxic benzodiazepine derivatives such as indolinobenzodiazapene dimers that are devoid of two imine functionalities e.g. one imine functionality and one amine functionality and thus incapable of crosslinking DNA display a much higher therapeutic index ratio of maximum tolerated dose to minimum effective dose in vivo compared to benzodiazepine derivatives that can crosslink DNA that are previously disclosed in the art.

Thus one object of the invention is to provide cytotoxic compound comprising a linking group with a reactive group bonded thereto capable of covalently linking the cytotoxic compound to a cell binding agent CBA see below wherein the cytotoxic compound is represented by any one of the following formulas 

In certain embodiments X is not the linking group with the reactive group bonded thereto. In certain embodiments the double line between N and C represents a single bond Y is not H.

In certain embodiments Y is a leaving group selected from OR OCOR OCOOR OCONR R NR R NR COR NR NR R an optionally substituted 5 or 6 membered nitrogen containing heterocycle e.g. piperidine tetrahydropyrrole pyrazole morpholine etc. a guanidinum represented by NR C NH NR R an amino acid or a peptide represented by NRCOP wherein P is an amino acid or a polypeptide containing between 2 to 20 amino acid units SR SOR SOM SOM OSOM halogen cyano and an azido.

A second object of the invention is to provide conjugates of cell binding agents with the novel benzodiazepine compounds or derivatives thereof of the present invention. These conjugates are useful as therapeutic agents which are delivered specifically to target cells and are cytotoxic.

Specifically a conjugate of the invention may comprise a cytotoxic compound and a cell binding agent CBA wherein the cytotoxic compound comprises a linking group which covalently links the cytotoxic compound to the CBA and wherein the cytotoxic compound is represented by any one of the following formulas 

In certain embodiments X is not the linking group. In certain embodiments the double line between N and C represents a single bond Y is not H.

In certain embodiments Y is H or a leaving group selected from OR OCOR OCOOR OCONR R NR R NR COR NR NR R an optionally substituted 5 or 6 membered nitrogen containing heterocycle e.g. piperidine tetrahydropyrrole pyrazole morpholine etc. a guanidinum represented by NR C NH NR R an amino acid or a peptide represented by NRCOP wherein P is an amino acid or a polypeptide containing between 2 to 20 amino acid units SR SOR SOM SOM OSOM halogen cyano and an azido. In certain embodiments Y is not H.

In certain embodiments the compound of the conjugate is not any one of the following compounds the wavy bond represents the bond through which the compound is linked to the CBA 

The present invention also includes a composition e.g. a pharmaceutical composition comprising novel benzodiazepine compounds derivatives thereof or conjugates thereof and or solvates hydrates and or salts thereof and a carrier a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier . The present invention additionally includes a composition e.g. a pharmaceutical composition comprising novel benzodiazepine compounds derivatives thereof or conjugates thereof and or solvates hydrates and or salts thereof and a carrier a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier further comprising a second therapeutic agent. The present compositions are useful for inhibiting abnormal cell growth or treating a proliferative disorder in a mammal e.g. human The present compositions are useful for treating conditions such as cancer rheumatoid arthritis multiple sclerosis graft versus host disease GVHD transplant rejection lupus myositis infection immune deficiency such as AIDS and inflammatory diseases in a mammal e.g. human .

The present invention includes a method of inhibiting abnormal cell growth or treating a proliferative disorder in a mammal e.g. human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of novel benzodiazepine compounds derivatives thereof or conjugates thereof and or solvates and salts thereof or a composition thereof alone or in combination with a second therapeutic agent. The present invention includes a method of synthesizing and using novel benzodiazepine compounds derivatives thereof and conjugates thereof for in vitro in situ and in vivo diagnosis or treatment of mammalian cells organisms or associated pathological conditions.

The compounds of this invention derivatives thereof or conjugates thereof and compositions comprising them are useful for treating or lessening the severity of disorders such as characterized by abnormal growth of cells e.g. cancer . Other applications for compounds and conjugates of this invention include but are not limited to treating conditions such as cancer rheumatoid arthritis multiple sclerosis graft versus host disease GVHD transplant rejection lupus myositis infection immune deficiency such as AIDS and inflammatory diseases in a mammal e.g. human .

As used herein when referring to a group e.g. R L X etc. is be or is not the linking group or the linking group with the reactive group bounded thereto it is meant that the group comprises or does not comprise the linking group or the linking group with the reactive group bounded thereto.

Reference will now be made in detail to certain embodiments of the invention examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying structures and formulas. While the invention will be described in conjunction with the enumerated embodiments it will be understood that they are not intended to limit the invention to those embodiments. On the contrary the invention is intended to cover all alternatives modifications and equivalents which may be included within the scope of the present invention as defined by the claims. One skilled in the art will recognize many methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein which could be used in the practice of the present invention.

It should be understood that any of the embodiments described herein including those described under different aspects of the invention e.g. compounds compound linker molecules conjugates compositions methods of making and using and different parts of the specification including embodiments described only in the Examples can be combined with one or more other embodiments of the invention unless explicitly disclaimed or improper. Combination of embodiments are not limited to those specific combinations claimed via the multiple dependent claims.

 Linear or branched alkyl as used herein refers to a saturated linear or branched chain monovalent hydrocarbon radical of one to twenty carbon atoms. Examples of alkyl include but are not limited to methyl ethyl 1 propyl 2 propyl 1 butyl 2 methyl 1 propyl CHCH CH 2 butyl 2 methyl 2 propyl 1 pentyl 2 pentyl 3 pentyl 2 methyl 2 butyl 3 methyl 2 butyl 3 methyl 1 butyl 2 methyl 1 butyl 1 hexyl 2 hexyl 3 hexyl 2 methyl 2 pentyl 3 methyl 2 pentyl 4 methyl 2 pentyl 3 methyl 3 pentyl 2 methyl 3 pentyl 2 3 dimethyl 2 butyl 3 3 dimethyl 2 butyl 1 heptyl 1 octyl and the like. Preferably the alkyl has one to ten carbon atoms. More preferably the alkyl has one to four carbon atoms.

 Linear or branched alkenyl refers to linear or branched chain monovalent hydrocarbon radical of two to twenty carbon atoms with at least one site of unsaturation i.e. a carbon carbon double bond wherein the alkenyl radical includes radicals having cis and trans orientations or alternatively E and Z orientations. Examples include but are not limited to ethylenyl or vinyl CH CH allyl CHCH CH and the like. Preferably the alkenyl has two to ten carbon atoms. More preferably the alkyl has two to four carbon atoms.

 Linear or branched alkynyl refers to a linear or branched monovalent hydrocarbon radical of two to twenty carbon atoms with at least one site of unsaturation i.e. a carbon carbon triple bond. Examples include but are not limited to ethynyl propynyl 1 butynyl 2 butynyl 1 pentynyl 2 pentynyl 3 pentynyl hexynyl and the like. Preferably the alkynyl has two to ten carbon atoms. More preferably the alkynyl has two to four carbon atoms.

The term carbocycle carbocyclyl and carbocyclic ring refer to a monovalent non aromatic saturated or partially unsaturated ring having 3 to 12 carbon atoms as a monocyclic ring or 7 to 12 carbon atoms as a bicyclic ring. Bicyclic carbocycles having 7 to 12 atoms can be arranged for example as a bicyclo 4 5 5 5 5 6 or 6 6 system and bicyclic carbocycles having 9 or 10 ring atoms can be arranged as a bicyclo 5 6 or 6 6 system or as bridged systems such as bicyclo 2.2.1 heptane bicyclo 2.2.2 octane and bicyclo 3.2.2 nonane. Examples of monocyclic carbocycles include but are not limited to cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl 1 cyclopent 1 enyl 1 cyclopent 2 enyl 1 cyclopent 3 enyl cyclohexyl 1 cyclohex 1 enyl 1 cyclohex 2 enyl 1 cyclohex 3 enyl cyclohexadienyl cycloheptyl cyclooctyl cyclononyl cyclodecyl cycloundecyl cyclododecyl and the like.

The terms cyclic alkyl and cycloalkyl can be used interchangeably. They refer to a monovalent saturated carbocyclic ring radical. Preferably the cyclic alkyl is 3 to 7 membered monocyclic ring radical. More preferably the cyclic alkyl is cyclohexyl.

The term cyclic alkenyl refers to a carbocyclic ring radical having at least one double bond in the ring structure.

The term cyclic alkynyl refers to a carbocyclic ring radical having at least one triple bond in the ring structure.

 Aryl means a monovalent aromatic hydrocarbon radical of 6 18 carbon atoms derived by the removal of one hydrogen atom from a single carbon atom of a parent aromatic ring system. Some aryl groups are represented in the exemplary structures as Ar. Aryl includes bicyclic radicals comprising an aromatic ring fused to a saturated partially unsaturated ring or aromatic carbocyclic or heterocyclic ring. Typical aryl groups include but are not limited to radicals derived from benzene phenyl substituted benzenes naphthalene anthracene indenyl indanyl 1 2 dihydronapthalene 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronapthyl and the like. Preferably aryl is phenyl group.

The terms heterocycle heterocyclyl and heterocyclic ring are used interchangeably herein and refer to a saturated or a partially unsaturated i.e. having one or more double and or triple bonds within the ring carbocyclic radical of 3 to 18 ring atoms in which at least one ring atom is a heteroatom selected from nitrogen oxygen phosphorus and sulfur the remaining ring atoms being C where one or more ring atoms is optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described below. A heterocycle may be a monocycle having 3 to 7 ring members 2 to 6 carbon atoms and 1 to 4 heteroatoms selected from N O P and S or a bicycle having 7 to 10 ring members 4 to 9 carbon atoms and 1 to 6 heteroatoms selected from N O P and S for example a bicyclo 4 5 5 5 5 6 or 6 6 system. Heterocycles are described in Paquette Leo A. Principles of Modern Heterocyclic Chemistry W. A. Benjamin New York 1968 particularly Chapters 1 3 4 6 7 and 9 The Chemistry of Heterocyclic Compounds A series of Monographs John Wiley Sons New York 1950 to present in particular Volumes 13 14 16 19 and 28 and J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1960 82 5566. Heterocyclyl also includes radicals where heterocycle radicals are fused with a saturated partially unsaturated ring or aromatic carbocyclic or heterocyclic ring. Examples of heterocyclic rings include but are not limited to pyrrolidinyl tetrahydrofuranyl dihydrofuranyl tetrahydrothienyl tetrahydropyranyl dihydropyranyl tetrahydrothiopyranyl piperidino morpholino thiomorpholino thioxanyl piperazinyl homopiperazinyl azetidinyl oxetanyl thietanyl homopiperidinyl oxepanyl thiepanyl oxazepinyl diazepinyl thiazepinyl 2 pyrrolinyl 3 pyrrolinyl indolinyl 2H pyranyl 4H pyranyl dioxanyl 1 3 dioxolanyl pyrazolinyl dithianyl dithiolanyl dihydropyranyl dihydrothienyl dihydrofuranyl pyrazolidinylimidazolinyl imidazolidinyl 3 azabicyco 3.1.0 hexanyl 3 azabicyclo 4.1.0 heptanyl and azabicyclo 2.2.2 hexanyl. Spiro moieties are also included within the scope of this definition. Examples of a heterocyclic group wherein ring atoms are substituted with oxo O moieties are pyrimidinonyl and 1 1 dioxo thiomorpholinyl.

The term heteroaryl refers to a monovalent aromatic radical of 5 or 6 membered rings and includes fused ring systems at least one of which is aromatic of 5 18 atoms containing one or more heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur. Examples of heteroaryl groups are pyridinyl including for example 2 hydroxypyridinyl imidazolyl imidazopyridinyl pyrimidinyl including for example 4 hydroxypyrimidinyl pyrazolyl triazolyl pyrazinyl tetrazolyl furyl thienyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl oxazolyl isothiazolyl pyrrolyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl indolyl benzimidazolyl benzofuranyl cinnolinyl indazolyl indolizinyl phthalazinyl pyridazinyl triazinyl isoindolyl pteridinyl purinyl oxadiazolyl triazolyl thiadiazolyl furazanyl benzofurazanyl benzothiophenyl benzothiazolyl benzoxazolyl quinazolinyl quinoxalinyl naphthyridinyl and furopyridinyl.

The heterocycle or heteroaryl groups may be carbon carbon linked or nitrogen nitrogen linked attached where such is possible. By way of example and not limitation carbon bonded heterocycles or heteroaryls are bonded at position 2 3 4 5 or 6 of a pyridine position 3 4 5 or 6 of a pyridazine position 2 4 5 or 6 of a pyrimidine position 2 3 5 or 6 of a pyrazine position 2 3 4 or 5 of a furan tetrahydrofuran thiofuran thiophene pyrrole or tetrahydropyrrole position 2 4 or 5 of an oxazole imidazole or thiazole position 3 4 or 5 of an isoxazole pyrazole or isothiazole position 2 or 3 of an aziridine position 2 3 or 4 of an azetidine position 2 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 of a quinoline or position 1 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 of an isoquinoline.

By way of example and not limitation nitrogen bonded heterocycles or heteroaryls are bonded at position 1 of an aziridine azetidine pyrrole pyrrolidine 2 pyrroline 3 pyrroline imidazole imidazolidine 2 imidazoline 3 imidazoline pyrazole pyrazoline 2 pyrazoline 3 pyrazoline piperidine piperazine indole indoline 1H indazole position 2 of a isoindole or isoindoline position 4 of a morpholine and position 9 of a carbazole or O carboline.

The heteroatoms present in heteroaryl or heterocyclcyl include the oxidized forms such as NO SO and SO.

The alkyl alkenyl alkynyl cyclic alkyl cyclic alkenyl cyclic alkynyl carbocyclyl aryl heterocyclyl and heteroaryl described above can be optionally substituted with one more e.g. 2 3 4 5 6 or more substituents.

If a substituent is described as being substituted a non hydrogen substituent is in the place of a hydrogen substituent on a carbon oxygen sulfur or nitrogen of the substituent. Thus for example a substituted alkyl substituent is an alkyl substituent wherein at least one non hydrogen substituent is in the place of a hydrogen substituent on the alkyl substituent. To illustrate monofluoroalkyl is alkyl substituted with a fluoro substituent and difluoroalkyl is alkyl substituted with two fluoro substituents. It should be recognized that if there is more than one substitution on a substituent each non hydrogen substituent may be identical or different unless otherwise stated .

If a substituent is described as being optionally substituted the substituent may be either 1 not substituted or 2 substituted. If a carbon of a substituent is described as being optionally substituted with one or more of a list of substituents one or more of the hydrogens on the carbon to the extent there are any may separately and or together be replaced with an independently selected optional substituent. If a nitrogen of a substituent is described as being optionally substituted with one or more of a list of substituents one or more of the hydrogens on the nitrogen to the extent there are any may each be replaced with an independently selected optional substituent. One exemplary substituent may be depicted as NR R wherein R and R together with the nitrogen atom to which they are attached may form a heterocyclic ring. The heterocyclic ring formed from R and R together with the nitrogen atom to which they are attached may be partially or fully saturated. In one embodiment the heterocyclic ring consists of 3 to 7 atoms. In another embodiment the heterocyclic ring is selected from the group consisting of pyrrolyl imidazolyl pyrazolyl triazolyl tetrazolyl isoxazolyl pyridyl and thiazolyl.

If a group of substituents are collectively described as being optionally substituted by one or more of a list of substituents the group may include 1 unsubstitutable substituents 2 substitutable substituents that are not substituted by the optional substituents and or 3 substitutable substituents that are substituted by one or more of the optional substituents.

If a substituent is described as being optionally substituted with up to a particular number of non hydrogen substituents that substituent may be either 1 not substituted or 2 substituted by up to that particular number of non hydrogen substituents or by up to the maximum number of substitutable positions on the substituent whichever is less. Thus for example if a substituent is described as a heteroaryl optionally substituted with up to 3 non hydrogen substituents then any heteroaryl with less than 3 substitutable positions would be optionally substituted by up to only as many non hydrogen substituents as the heteroaryl has substitutable positions. Such substituents in non limiting examples can be selected from a linear branched or cyclic alkyl alkenyl or alkynyl having from 1 to 10 carbon atoms aryl heteroaryl heterocycyclyl halogen guanidinium NH C NH NH OR NRR NO NRCOR SR a sulfoxide represented by SOR a sulfone represented by SOR a sulfonate SOM a sulfate OSOM a sulfonamide represented by SONRR cyano an azido COR OCOR OCONRRand a polyethylene glycol unit OCHCH Rwherein M is H or a cation such as Na or K R Rand Rare each independently selected from H linear branched or cyclic alkyl alkenyl or alkynyl having from 1 to 10 carbon atoms a polyethylene glycol unit OCHCH R wherein n is an integer from 1 to 24 an aryl having from 6 to 10 carbon atoms a heterocyclic ring having from 3 to 10 carbon atoms and a heteroaryl having 5 to 10 carbon atoms and Ris H or a linear or branched alkyl having 1 to 4 carbon atoms wherein the alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heteroaryl and heterocyclcyl in the groups represented by R R R Rand Rare optionally substituted with one or more e.g. 2 3 4 5 6 or more substituents independently selected from halogen OH CN NOand unsubstituted linear or branched alkyl having 1 to 4 carbon atoms. Preferably the substituents for the optionally substituted alkyl alkenyl alkynyl cyclic alkyl cyclic alkenyl cyclic alkynyl carbocyclyl aryl heterocyclyl and heteroaryl described above include halogen CN NRR CF OR aryl heteroaryl heterocycycl SR SOR SORand SOM.

The term compound or cytotoxic compound cytotoxic dimer and cytotoxic dimer compound are used interchangeably. They are intended to include compounds for which a structure or formula or any derivative thereof has been disclosed in the present invention or a structure or formula or any derivative thereof that has been incorporated by reference. The term also includes stereoisomers geometric isomers tautomers solvates metabolites salts e.g. pharmaceutically acceptable salts and prodrugs and prodrug salts of a compound of all the formulae disclosed in the present invention. The term also includes any solvates hydrates and polymorphs of any of the foregoing. The specific recitation of stereoisomers geometric isomers tautomers solvates metabolites salt prodrug prodrug salt conjugates conjugates salt solvate hydrate or polymorph in certain aspects of the invention described in this application shall not be interpreted as an intended omission of these forms in other aspects of the invention where the term compound is used without recitation of these other forms.

The term conjugate as used herein refers to a compound described herein or a derivative thereof that is linked to a cell binding agent.

The term linkable to a cell binding agent as used herein refers to the compounds described herein or derivates thereof comprising at least one linking group or a precursor thereof suitable to bond these compounds or derivatives thereof to a cell binding agent.

The term precursor of a given group refers to any group which may lead to that group by any deprotection a chemical modification or a coupling reaction.

The term linked to a cell binding agent refers to a conjugate molecule comprising at least one of the compounds described herein e.g. compounds of formula I IV and VIII XI and drug linker compounds describe herein or derivative thereof bound to a cell binding agent via a suitable linking group or a precursor thereof.

The term chiral refers to molecules which have the property of non superimposability of the mirror image partner while the term achiral refers to molecules which are superimposable on their mirror image partner.

The term stereoisomer refers to compounds which have identical chemical constitution and connectivity but different orientations of their atoms in space that cannot be interconverted by rotation about single bonds.

 Diastereomer refers to a stereoisomer with two or more centers of chirality and whose molecules are not mirror images of one another. Diastereomers have different physical properties e.g. melting points boiling points spectral properties and reactivities. Mixtures of diastereomers may separate under high resolution analytical procedures such as crystallization electrophoresis and chromatography.

 Enantiomers refer to two stereoisomers of a compound which are non superimposable mirror images of one another.

Stereochemical definitions and conventions used herein generally follow S. P. Parker Ed. McGraw Hill Dictionary of Chemical Terms 1984 McGraw Hill Book Company New York and Eliel E. and Wilen S. Stereochemistry of Organic Compounds John Wiley Sons Inc. New York 1994. The compounds of the invention may contain asymmetric or chiral centers and therefore exist in different stereoisomeric forms. It is intended that all stereoisomeric forms of the compounds of the invention including but not limited to diastereomers enantiomers and atropisomers as well as mixtures thereof such as racemic mixtures form part of the present invention. Many organic compounds exist in optically active forms i.e. they have the ability to rotate the plane of plane polarized light. In describing an optically active compound the prefixes D and L or R and S are used to denote the absolute configuration of the molecule about its chiral center s . The prefixes d and I or and are employed to designate the sign of rotation of plane polarized light by the compound with or 1 meaning that the compound is levorotatory. A compound prefixed with or d is dextrorotatory. For a given chemical structure these stereoisomers are identical except that they are mirror images of one another. A specific stereoisomer may also be referred to as an enantiomer and a mixture of such isomers is often called an enantiomeric mixture. A 50 50 mixture of enantiomers is referred to as a racemic mixture or a racemate which may occur where there has been no stereoselection or stereospecificity in a chemical reaction or process. The terms racemic mixture and racemate refer to an equimolar mixture of two enantiomeric species devoid of optical activity.

The term tautomer or tautomeric form refers to structural isomers of different energies which are interconvertible via a low energy barrier. For example proton tautomers also known as prototropic tautomers include interconversions via migration of a proton such as keto enol and imine enamine isomerizations. Valence tautomers include interconversions by reorganization of some of the bonding electrons.

The term prodrug as used in this application refers to a precursor or derivative form of a compound of the invention that is capable of being enzymatically or hydrolytically activated or converted into the more active parent form. See e.g. Wilman Prodrugs in Cancer Chemotherapy Biochemical Society Transactions 14 pp. 375 382 615th Meeting Belfast 1986 and Stella et al. Prodrugs A Chemical Approach to Targeted Drug Delivery Directed Drug Delivery Borchardt et al. ed. pp. 247 267 Humana Press 1985 . The prodrugs of this invention include but are not limited to ester containing prodrugs phosphate containing prodrugs thiophosphate containing prodrugs sulfate containing prodrugs peptide containing prodrugs D amino acid modified prodrugs glycosylated prodrugs lactam containing prodrugs optionally substituted phenoxyacetamide containing prodrugs optionally substituted phenylacetamide containing prodrugs 5 fluorocytosine and other 5 fluorouridine prodrugs which can be converted into the more active cytotoxic free drug. Examples of cytotoxic drugs that can be derivatized into a prodrug form for use in this invention include but are not limited to compounds of the invention and chemotherapeutic agents such as described above.

The term prodrug is also meant to include a derivative of a compound that can hydrolyze oxidize or otherwise react under biological conditions in vitro or in vivo to provide a compound of this invention. Prodrugs may only become active upon such reaction under biological conditions or they may have activity in their unreacted forms. Examples of prodrugs contemplated in this invention include but are not limited to analogs or derivatives of compounds of any one of the formulae disclosed herein that comprise biohydrolyzable moieties such as biohydrolyzable amides biohydrolyzable esters biohydrolyzable carbamates biohydrolyzable carbonates biohydrolyzable ureides and biohydrolyzable phosphate analogues. Other examples of prodrugs include derivatives of compounds of any one of the formulae disclosed herein that comprise NO NO ONO or ONOmoieties. Prodrugs can typically be prepared using well known methods such as those described by Burger s Medicinal Chemistry and Drug Discovery 1995 172 178 949 982 Manfred E. Wolff ed. 5th ed see also Goodman and Gilman s The Pharmacological basis of Therapeutics 8th ed. McGraw Hill Int. Ed. 1992 Biotransformation of Drugs. 

One preferred form of prodrug of the invention includes compounds with or without any linker groups and conjugates of the invention comprising an adduct formed between an imine bond of the compounds conjugates and an imine reactive reagent. Another preferred form of prodrug of the invention includes compounds such as those of formula I IV wherein when the double line between N and C represents a single bond X is H or an amine protecting group and the compound becomes a prodrug. A prodrug of the invention may contain one or both forms of prodrugs described herein e.g. containing an adduct formed between an imine bond of the compounds conjugates and an imine reactive reagent and or containing a Y leaving group when X is H .

The term imine reactive reagent refers to a reagent that is capable of reacting with an imine group. Examples of imine reactive reagent includes but is not limited to sulfites HSO HSOor a salt of HSO SO or HSOformed with a cation metabisulfite HSOor a salt of SO formed with a cation mono di tri and tetra thiophosphates POSH POSH POSH PSHor a salt of POS POS POS or PS formed with a cation thio phosphate esters RO PS OR RSH RSOH RSOH RSOH various amines hydroxyl amine e.g. NHOH hydrazine e.g. NHNH NHO R R NH R NH R NH CO NH NH C S NH thiosulfate HSOor a salt of SO formed with a cation dithionite HSOor a salt of SO formed with a cation phosphorodithioate P S OR SH OH or a salt thereof formed with a cation hydroxamic acid RC O NHOH or a salt formed with a cation hydrazide RCONHNH formaldehyde sulfoxylate HOCHSOH or a salt of HOCHSO formed with a cation such as HOCHSONa glycated nucleotide such as GDP mannose fludarabine or a mixture thereof wherein Rand R are each independently a linear or branched alkyl having 1 to 10 carbon atoms and are substituted with at least one substituent selected from N R COH SOH and POH Rand R can be further optionally substituted with a substituent for an alkyl described herein Ris a linear or branched alkyl having 1 to 6 carbon atoms and Ris a linear branched or cyclic alkyl alkenyl or alkynyl having 1 to 10 carbon atoms aryl heterocyclyl or heteroaryl preferably Ris a linear or branched alkyl having 1 to 4 carbon atoms more preferably Ris methyl ethyl or propyl . Preferably the cation is a monovalent cation such as Na or K. Preferably the imine reactive reagent is selected from sulfites hydroxyl amine urea and hydrazine. More preferably the imine reactive reagent is NaHSOor KHSO.

As used herein and unless otherwise indicated the terms biohydrolyzable amide biohydrolyzable ester biohydrolyzable carbamate biohydrolyzable carbonate biohydrolyzable ureide and biohydrolyzable phosphate analogue mean an amide ester carbamate carbonate ureide or phosphate analogue respectively that either 1 does not destroy the biological activity of the compound and confers upon that compound advantageous properties in vivo such as uptake duration of action or onset of action or 2 is itself biologically inactive but is converted in vivo to a biologically active compound. Examples of biohydrolyzable amides include but are not limited to lower alkyl amides amino acid amides alkoxyacyl amides and alkylaminoalkylcarbonyl amides. Examples of biohydrolyzable esters include but are not limited to lower alkyl esters alkoxyacyloxy esters alkyl acylamino alkyl esters and choline esters. Examples of biohydrolyzable carbamates include but are not limited to lower alkylamines substituted ethylenediamines amino acids hydroxyalkylamines heterocyclic and heteroaromatic amines and polyether amines. Particularly favored prodrugs and prodrug salts are those that increase the bioavailability of the compounds of this invention when such compounds are administered to a mammal.

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable salt as used herein refers to pharmaceutically acceptable organic or inorganic salts of a compound of the invention. Exemplary salts include but are not limited to sulfate citrate acetate oxalate chloride bromide iodide nitrate bisulfate phosphate acid phosphate isonicotinate lactate salicylate acid citrate tartrate oleate tannate pantothenate bitartrate ascorbate succinate maleate gentisinate fumarate gluconate glucuronate saccharate formate benzoate glutamate methanesulfonate mesylate ethanesulfonate benzenesulfonate p toluenesulfonate pamoate i.e. 1 1 methylene bis 2 hydroxy 3 naphthoate salts alkali metal e.g. sodium and potassium salts alkaline earth metal e.g. magnesium salts and ammonium salts. A pharmaceutically acceptable salt may involve the inclusion of another molecule such as an acetate ion a succinate ion or other counter ion. The counter ion may be any organic or inorganic moiety that stabilizes the charge on the parent compound. Furthermore a pharmaceutically acceptable salt may have more than one charged atom in its structure. Instances where multiple charged atoms are part of the pharmaceutically acceptable salt can have multiple counter ions. Hence a pharmaceutically acceptable salt can have one or more charged atoms and or one or more counter ion.

If the compound of the invention is a base the desired pharmaceutically acceptable salt may be prepared by any suitable method available in the art for example treatment of the free base with an inorganic acid such as hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid sulfuric acid nitric acid methanesulfonic acid phosphoric acid and the like or with an organic acid such as acetic acid maleic acid succinic acid mandelic acid fumaric acid malonic acid pyruvic acid oxalic acid glycolic acid salicylic acid a pyranosidyl acid such as glucuronic acid or galacturonic acid an alpha hydroxy acid such as citric acid or tartaric acid an amino acid such as aspartic acid or glutamic acid an aromatic acid such as benzoic acid or cinnamic acid a sulfonic acid such as p toluenesulfonic acid or ethanesulfonic acid or the like.

If the compound of the invention is an acid the desired pharmaceutically acceptable salt may be prepared by any suitable method for example treatment of the free acid with an inorganic or organic base such as an amine primary secondary or tertiary an alkali metal hydroxide or alkaline earth metal hydroxide or the like. Illustrative examples of suitable salts include but are not limited to organic salts derived from amino acids such as glycine and arginine ammonia primary secondary and tertiary amines and cyclic amines such as piperidine morpholine and piperazine and inorganic salts derived from sodium calcium potassium magnesium manganese iron copper zinc aluminum and lithium.

As used herein the term solvate means a compound which further includes a stoichiometric or non stoichiometric amount of solvent such as water isopropanol acetone ethanol methanol DMSO ethyl acetate acetic acid and ethanolamine dichloromethane 2 propanol or the like bound by non covalent intermolecular forces. Solvates or hydrates of the compounds are readily prepared by addition of at least one molar equivalent of a hydroxylic solvent such as methanol ethanol 1 propanol 2 propanol or water to the compound to result in solvation or hydration of the imine moiety.

The terms abnormal cell growth and proliferative disorder are used interchangeably in this application. Abnormal cell growth as used herein unless otherwise indicated refers to cell growth that is independent of normal regulatory mechanisms e.g. loss of contact inhibition . This includes for example the abnormal growth of 1 tumor cells tumors that proliferate by expressing a mutated tyrosine kinase or overexpression of a receptor tyrosine kinase 2 benign and malignant cells of other proliferative diseases in which aberrant tyrosine kinase activation occurs 3 any tumors that proliferate by receptor tyrosine kinases 4 any tumors that proliferate by aberrant serine threonine kinase activation and 5 benign and malignant cells of other proliferative diseases in which aberrant serine threonine kinase activation occurs.

The terms cancer and cancerous refer to or describe the physiological condition in mammals that is typically characterized by unregulated cell growth. A tumor comprises one or more cancerous cells and or benign or pre cancerous cells. Examples of cancer include but are not limited to carcinoma lymphoma blastoma sarcoma and leukemia or lymphoid malignancies. More particular examples of such cancers include squamous cell cancer e.g. epithelial squamous cell cancer lung cancer including small cell lung cancer non small cell lung cancer NSCLC adenocarcinoma of the lung and squamous carcinoma of the lung cancer of the peritoneum hepatocellular cancer gastric or stomach cancer including gastrointestinal cancer pancreatic cancer glioblastoma cervical cancer ovarian cancer liver cancer bladder cancer hepatoma breast cancer colon cancer rectal cancer colorectal cancer endometrial or uterine carcinoma salivary gland carcinoma kidney or renal cancer prostate cancer vulval cancer thyroid cancer hepatic carcinoma anal carcinoma penile carcinoma acute leukemia head brain and neck cancer cancers of lymphatic organs and hematological malignancy including Leukemia Acute lymphoblastic leukemia ALL Acute myelogenous leukemia AML Chronic lymphocytic leukemia CLL Chronic myelogenous leukemia CML Acute monocytic leukemia AMOL Hairy cell leukemia HCL T cell prolymphocytic leukemia T PLL Large granular lymphocytic leukemia Adult T cell leukemia Lymphoma small lymphocytic lymphoma SLL Hodgkin s lymphomas Nodular sclerosis Mixed cellularity Lymphocyte rich Lymphocyte depleted or not depleted and Nodular lymphocyte predominant Hodgkin lymphoma Non Hodgkin s lymphomas all subtypes Chronic lymphocytic leukemia Small lymphocytic lymphoma B cell prolymphocytic leukemia Lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma such as Waldenstr m macroglobulinemia Splenic marginal zone lymphoma Plasma cell neoplasms Plasma cell myeloma Plasmacytoma Monoclonal immunoglobulin deposition diseases Heavy chain diseases Extranodal marginal zone B cell lymphoma MALT lymphoma Nodal marginal zone B cell lymphoma NMZL Follicular lymphoma Mantle cell lymphoma Diffuse large B cell lymphoma Mediastinal thymic large B cell lymphoma Intravascular large B cell lymphoma Primary effusion lymphoma Burkitt lymphoma leukemia T cell prolymphocytic leukemia T cell large granular lymphocytic leukemia Aggressive NK cell leukemia Adult T cell leukemia lymphoma Extranodal NK T cell lymphoma nasal type Enteropathy type T cell lymphoma Hepatosplenic T cell lymphoma Blastic NK cell lymphoma Mycosis fungoides Sezary syndrome Primary cutaneous CD30 positive T cell lymphoproliferative disorders Primary cutaneous anaplastic large cell lymphoma Lymphomatoid papulosis Angioimmunoblastic T cell lymphoma Peripheral T cell lymphoma unspecified Anaplastic large cell lymphoma multiple myeloma plasma cell myeloma or Kahler s disease .

A therapeutic agent encompasses both a biological agent such as an antibody a peptide a protein an enzyme or a chemotherapeutic agent.

A chemotherapeutic agent is a chemical compound useful in the treatment of cancer. Examples of chemotherapeutic agents include Erlotinib TARCEVA Genentech OSI Pharm. Bortezomib VELCADE Millennium Pharm. Fulvestrant FASLODEX AstraZeneca Sutent SU11248 Pfizer Letrozole FEMARA Novartis Imatinib mesylate GLEEVEC Novartis PTK787 ZK 222584 Novartis Oxaliplatin Eloxatin Sanofi 5 FU 5 fluorouracil Leucovorin Rapamycin Sirolimus RAPAMUNE Wyeth Lapatinib TYKERB GSK572016 Glaxo Smith Kline Lonafarnib SCH 66336 Sorafenib BAY43 9006 Bayer Labs and Gefitinib IRESSA AstraZeneca AG1478 AG1571 SU 5271 Sugen alkylating agents such as thiotepa and CYTOXAN cyclosphosphamide alkyl sulfonates such as busulfan improsulfan and piposulfan aziridines such as benzodopa carboquone meturedopa and uredopa ethylenimines and methylamelamines including altretamine triethylenemelamine triethylenephosphoramide triethylenethiophosphoramide and trimethylomelamine acetogenins especially bullatacin and bullatacinone a camptothecin including the synthetic analog topotecan bryostatin callystatin CC 1065 including its adozelesin carzelesin and bizelesin synthetic analogs cryptophycins particularly cryptophycin 1 and cryptophycin 8 dolastatin duocarmycin including the synthetic analogs KW 2189 and CB1 TM1 eleutherobin pancratistatin a sarcodictyin spongistatin nitrogen mustards such as chlorambucil chlornaphazine chlorophosphamide estramustine ifosfamide mechlorethamine mechlorethamine oxide hydrochloride melphalan novembichin phenesterine prednimustine trofosfamide uracil mustard nitrosureas such as carmustine chlorozotocin fotemustine lomustine nimustine and ranimnustine antibiotics such as the enediyne antibiotics e.g. calicheamicin especially calicheamicin gamma11 and calicheamicin omega11 Angew Chem. Intl. Ed. Engl. 1994 33 183 186 dynemicin including dynemicin A bisphosphonates such as clodronate an esperamicin as well as neocarzinostatin chromophore and related chromoprotein enediyne antibiotic chromophores aclacinomysins actinomycin authramycin azaserine bleomycins cactinomycin carabicin caminomycin carzinophilin chromomycinis dactinomycin daunorubicin detorubicin 6 diazo 5 oxo L norleucine ADRIAMYCIN doxorubicin morpholino doxorubicin cyanomorpholino doxorubicin 2 pyrrolino doxorubicin and deoxydoxorubicin epirubicin esorubicin idarubicin marcellomycin mitomycins such as mitomycin C mycophenolic acid nogalamycin olivomycins peplomycin porfiromycin puromycin quelamycin rodorubicin streptonigrin streptozocin tubercidin ubenimex zinostatin zorubicin anti metabolites such as methotrexate and 5 fluorouracil 5 FU folic acid analogs such as denopterin methotrexate pteropterin trimetrexate purine analogs such as fludarabine 6 mercaptopurine thiamniprine thioguanine pyrimidine analogs such as ancitabine azacitidine 6 azauridine carmofur cytarabine dideoxyuridine doxifluridine enocitabine floxuridine androgens such as calusterone dromostanolone propionate epitiostanol mepitiostane testolactone anti adrenals such as aminoglutethimide mitotane trilostane folic acid replenisher such as frolinic acid aceglatone aldophosphamide glycoside aminolevulinic acid eniluracil amsacrine bestrabucil bisantrene edatraxate defofamine demecolcine diaziquone elformithine elliptinium acetate an epothilone etoglucid gallium nitrate hydroxyurea lentinan lonidainine maytansinoids such as maytansine and ansamitocins mitoguazone mitoxantrone mopidanmol nitraerine pentostatin phenamet pirarubicin losoxantrone podophyllinic acid 2 ethylhydrazide procarbazine PSK polysaccharide complex JHS Natural Products Eugene Oreg. razoxane rhizoxin sizofuran spirogermanium tenuazonic acid triaziquone 2 2 2 trichlorotriethylamine trichothecenes especially T 2 toxin verracurin A roridin A and anguidine urethan vindesine dacarbazine mannomustine mitobronitol mitolactol pipobroman gacytosine arabinoside Ara C cyclophosphamide thiotepa taxoids e.g. TAXOL paclitaxel Bristol Myers Squibb Oncology Princeton N.J. ABRAXANE Cremophor free albumin engineered nanoparticle formulations of paclitaxel American Pharmaceutical Partners Schaumberg Ill. and TAXOTERE doxetaxel Rhone Poulenc Rorer Antony France chloranmbucil GEMZAR gemcitabine 6 thioguanine mercaptopurine methotrexate platinum analogs such as cisplatin and carboplatin vinblastine etoposide VP 16 ifosfamide mitoxantrone vincristine NAVELBINE vinorelbine novantrone teniposide edatrexate daunomycin aminopterin capecitabine XELODA ibandronate CPT 11 topoisomerase inhibitor RFS 2000 difluoromethylornithine DMFO retinoids such as retinoic acid and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above.

Also included in the definition of chemotherapeutic agent are i anti hormonal agents that act to regulate or inhibit hormone action on tumors such as anti estrogens and selective estrogen receptor modulators SERMs including for example tamoxifen including NOLVADEX tamoxifen citrate raloxifene droloxifene 4 hydroxytamoxifen trioxifene keoxifene LY117018 onapristone and FARESTON toremifine citrate ii aromatase inhibitors that inhibit the enzyme aromatase which regulates estrogen production in the adrenal glands such as for example 4 5 imidazoles aminoglutethimide MEGASE megestrol acetate AROMASIN exemestane Pfizer formestanie fadrozole RIVISOR vorozole FEMARA letrozole Novartis and ARIMIDEX anastrozole AstraZeneca iii anti androgens such as flutamide nilutamide bicalutamide leuprolide and goserelin as well as troxacitabine a 1 3 dioxolane nucleoside cytosine analog iv protein kinase inhibitors v lipid kinase inhibitors vi antisense oligonucleotides particularly those which inhibit expression of genes in signaling pathways implicated in aberrant cell proliferation such as for example PKC alpha Ralf and H Ras vii ribozymes such as VEGF expression inhibitors e.g. ANGIOZYME and HER2 expression inhibitors viii vaccines such as gene therapy vaccines for example ALLOVECTIN LEUVECTIN and VAXID PROLEUKIN rIL 2 a topoisomerase 1 inhibitor such as LURTOTECAN ABARELIX rmRH ix anti angiogenic agents such as bevacizumab AVASTIN Genentech and x pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above. Other anti angiogenic agents include MMP 2 matrix metalloproteinase 2 inhibitors MMP 9 matrix metalloproteinase 9 inhibitors COX II cyclooxygenase II inhibitors and VEGF receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors. Examples of such useful matrix metalloproteinase inhibitors that can be used in combination with the present compounds compositions are described in WO 96 33172 WO 96 27583 EP 818442 EP 1004578 WO 98 07697 WO 98 03516 WO 98 34918 WO 98 34915 WO 98 33768 WO 98 30566 EP 606 046 EP 931 788 WO 90 05719 WO 99 52910 WO 99 52889 WO 99 29667 WO 99 07675 EP 945864 U.S. Pat. No. 5 863 949 U.S. Pat. No. 5 861 510 and EP 780 386 all of which are incorporated herein in their entireties by reference. Examples of VEGF receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors include 4 4 bromo 2 fluoroanilino 6 methoxy 7 1 methylpiperidin 4 ylmethoxy quinazoline ZD6474 Example 2 within WO 01 32651 4 4 fluoro 2 methylindol 5 yloxy 6 methoxy 7 3 pyrrolidin 1 ylpropoxy quinazoline AZD2171 Example 240 within WO 00 47212 vatalanib PTK787 WO 98 35985 and SU11248 sunitinib WO 01 60814 and compounds such as those disclosed in PCT Publication Nos. WO 97 22596 WO 97 30035 WO 97 32856 and WO 98 13354 .

Other examples of chemotherapeutic agents that can be used in combination with the present compounds include inhibitors of PI3K phosphoinositide 3 kinase such as those reported in Yaguchi et al 2006 Jour. of the Nat. Cancer Inst. 98 8 545 556 U.S. Pat. No. 7 173 029 U.S. Pat. No. 7 037 915 U.S. Pat. No. 6 608 056 U.S. Pat. No. 6 608 053 U.S. Pat. No. 6 838 457 U.S. Pat. No. 6 770 641 U.S. Pat. No. 6 653 320 U.S. Pat. No. 6 403 588 WO 2006 046031 WO 2006 046035 WO 2006 046040 WO 2007 042806 WO 2007 042810 WO 2004 017950 US 2004 092561 WO 2004 007491 WO 2004 006916 WO 2003 037886 US 2003 149074 WO 2003 035618 WO 2003 034997 US 2003 158212 EP 1417976 US 2004 053946 JP 2001247477 JP 08175990 JP 08176070 U.S. Pat. No. 6 703 414 and WO 97 15658 all of which are incorporated herein in their entireties by reference. Specific examples of such PI3K inhibitors include SF 1126 PI3K inhibitor Semafore Pharmaceuticals BEZ 235 PI3K inhibitor Novartis XL 147 PI3K inhibitor Exelixis Inc. .

Chemotherapeutic agents may also include any of the generic drugs or biosimilars of the brand name drugs referenced herein or improvements thereof including improved formulations prodrugs delivery means sustained release bioadhesive coating targeted delivery etc. and dosage forms.

A metabolite is a product produced through metabolism in the body of a specified compound a derivative thereof or a conjugate thereof or salt thereof. Metabolites of a compound a derivative thereof or a conjugate thereof may be identified using routine techniques known in the art and their activities determined using tests such as those described herein. Such products may result for example from the oxidation hydroxylation reduction hydrolysis amidation deamidation esterification deesterification enzymatic cleavage and the like of the administered compound. Accordingly the invention includes metabolites of compounds a derivative thereof or a conjugate thereof of the invention including compounds a derivative thereof or a conjugate thereof produced by a process comprising contacting a compound a derivative thereof or a conjugate thereof of this invention with a mammal for a period of time sufficient to yield a metabolic product thereof.

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable indicates that the substance or composition must be compatible chemically and or toxicologically with the other ingredients comprising a formulation and or the mammal being treated therewith.

The term protecting group or protecting moiety refers to a substituent that is commonly employed to block or protect a particular functionality while reacting other functional groups on the compound a derivative thereof or a conjugate thereof. For example an amine protecting group or an amino protecting moiety is a substituent attached to an amino group that blocks or protects the amino functionality in the compound. Such groups are well known in the art see for example P. Wuts and T. Greene 2007 Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis Chapter 7 J. Wiley Sons NJ and exemplified by carbamates such as methyl and ethyl carbamate FMOC substituted ethyl carbamates carbamates cleaved by 1 6 elimination also termed self immolative ureas amides peptides alkyl and aryl derivatives. Suitable amino protecting groups include acetyl trifluoroacetyl t butoxycarbonyl BOC benzyloxycarbonyl CBZ and 9 fluorenylmethylenoxycarbonyl Fmoc . For a general description of protecting groups and their use see P. G. M. Wuts T. W. Greene Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis John Wiley Sons New York 2007.

The term leaving group refers to an group of charged or uncharged moiety that departs during a substitution or displacement. Such leaving groups are well known in the art and include but not limited to halogens esters alkoxy hydroxyl tosylates triflates mesylates nitriles azide carbamate disulfides thioesters thioethers and diazonium compounds.

The term bifunctional crosslinking agent bifunctional linker or crosslinking agents refers to modifying agents that possess two reactive groups one of which is capable of reacting with a cell binding agent while the other one reacts with the cytotoxic compound to link the two moieties together. Such bifunctional crosslinkers are well known in the art see for example Isalm and Dent in chapter 5 p 218 363 Groves Dictionaries Inc. New York 1999 . For example bifunctional crosslinking agents that enable linkage via a thioether bond include N succinimidyl 4 N maleimidomethyl cyclohexane 1 carboxylate SMCC to introduce maleimido groups or with N succinimidyl 4 iodoacetyl aminobenzoate SIAB to introduce iodoacetyl groups. Other bifunctional crosslinking agents that introduce maleimido groups or haloacetyl groups on to a cell binding agent are well known in the art see US Patent Applications 2008 0050310 20050169933 available from Pierce Biotechnology Inc. P.O. Box 117 Rockland Ill. 61105 USA and include but not limited to bis maleimidopolyethyleneglycol BMPEO BM PEO BM PEO N maleimidopropyloxy succinimide ester BMPS maleimidobutyric acid N succinimidyl ester GMBS maleimidocaproic acid N hydroxysuccinimide ester EMCS 5 maleimidovaleric acid NHS HBVS N succinimidyl 4 N maleimidomethyl cyclohexane 1 carboxy 6 amidocaproate which is a long chain analog of SMCC LC SMCC m maleimidobenzoyl N hydroxysuccinimide ester MBS 4 4 N maleimidophenyl butyric acid hydrazide or HCl salt MPBH N succinimidyl 3 bromoacetamido propionate SBAP N succinimidyl iodoacetate SIA maleimidoundecanoic acid N succinimidyl ester KMUA N succinimidyl 4 p maleimidophenyl butyrate SMPB succinimidyl 6 maleimidopropionamido hexanoate SMPH succinimidyl 4 vinylsulfonyl benzoate SVSB dithiobis maleimidoethane DTME 1 4 bis maleimidobutane BMB IA bismaleimidyl 2 3 dihydroxybutane BMDB bis maleimidohexane BMH bis maleimidoethane BMOE sulfosuccinimidyl 4 N maleimido methyl cyclohexane 1 carboxylate sulfo SMCC sulfosuccinimidyl 4 iodo acetyl aminobenzoate sulfo SIAB m maleimidobenzoyl N hydroxysulfosuccinimide ester sulfo MBS N maleimidobutryloxy sulfosuccinimde ester sulfo GMBS N maleimidocaproyloxy sulfosuccimido ester sulfo EMCS N maleimidoundecanoyloxy sulfosuccinimide ester sulfo KMUS and sulfosuccinimidyl 4 p maleimidophenyl butyrate sulfo SMPB .

Heterobifunctional crosslinking agents are bifunctional crosslinking agents having two different reactive groups. Heterobifunctional crosslinking agents containing both an amine reactive N hydroxysuccinimide group NHS group and a carbonyl reactive hydrazine group can also be used to link the cytotoxic compounds described herein with a cell binding agent e.g. antibody . Examples of such commercially available heterobifunctional crosslinking agents include succinimidyl 6 hydrazinonicotinamide acetone hydrazone SANH succinimidyl 4 hydrazidoterephthalate hydrochloride SHTH and succinimidyl hydrazinium nicotinate hydrochloride SHNH . Conjugates bearing an acid labile linkage can also be prepared using a hydrazine bearing benzodiazepine derivative of the present invention. Examples of bifunctional crosslinking agents that can be used include succinimidyl p formyl benzoate SFB and succinimidyl p formylphenoxyacetate SFPA .

Bifunctional crosslinking agents that enable the linkage of cell binding agent with cytotoxic compounds via disulfide bonds are known in the art and include N succinimidyl 3 2 pyridyldithio propionate SPDP N succinimidyl 4 2 pyridyldithio pentanoate SPP N succinimidyl 4 2 pyridyldithio butanoate SPDB N succinimidyl 4 2 pyridyldithio 2 sulfo butanoate sulfo SPDB to introduce dithiopyridyl groups. Other bifunctional crosslinking agents that can be used to introduce disulfide groups are known in the art and are disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 913 748 6 716 821 and US Patent Publications 20090274713 and 20100129314 all of which are incorporated herein by reference. Alternatively crosslinking agents such as 2 iminothiolane homocysteine thiolactone or S acetylsuccinic anhydride that introduce thiol groups can also be used.

A linker linker moiety or linking group as defined herein refers to a moiety that connects two groups such as a cell binding agent and a cytotoxic compound together. Typically the linker is substantially inert under conditions for which the two groups it is connecting are linked. A bifunctional crosslinking agent may comprise two reactive groups one at each ends of a linker moiety such that one reactive group can be first reacted with the cytotoxic compound to provide a compound bearing the linker moiety and a second reactive group which can then react with a cell binding agent. Alternatively one end of the bifunctional crosslinking agent can be first reacted with the cell binding agent to provide a cell binding agent bearing a linker moiety and a second reactive group which can then react with a cytotoxic compound. The linking moiety may contain a chemical bond that allows for the release of the cytotoxic moiety at a particular site. Suitable chemical bonds are well known in the art and include disulfide bonds thioether bonds acid labile bonds photolabile bonds peptidase labile bonds and esterase labile bonds see for example U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 208 020 5 475 092 6 441 163 6 716 821 6 913 748 7 276 497 7 276 499 7 368 565 7 388 026 and 7 414 073 . Preferred are disulfide bonds thioether and peptidase labile bonds. Other linkers that can be used in the present invention include non cleavable linkers such as those described in are described in detail in U.S. publication number 20050169933 or charged linkers or hydrophilic linkers and are described in US 2009 0274713 US 2010 01293140 and WO 2009 134976 each of which is expressly incorporated herein by reference each of which is expressly incorporated herein by reference.

In one embodiment the linking group with a reactive group attached at one end such as a reactive ester is selected from the following 

Any of the above linking groups may be present in any of the compounds drug linker compounds or conjugates of the invention including replacing the linking groups of any of the formulas described herein.

The term amino acid refers to naturally occurring amino acids or non naturally occurring amino acid represented by NH C RR C O OH wherein Rand R are each independently H an optionally substituted linear branched or cyclic alkyl alkenyl or alkynyl having 1 to 10 carbon atoms aryl heteroaryl or heterocyclyl. The term amino acid also refers to the corresponding residue when one hydrogen atom is removed from the amine and or carboxy end of the amino acid such as NH C RR C O O .

The term cation refers to an ion with positive charge. The cation can be monovalent e.g. Na K etc. bi valent e.g. Ca Mg etc. or multi valent e.g. Al etc. . Preferably the cation is monovalent.

The term therapeutically effective amount means that amount of active compound or conjugate that elicits the desired biological response in a subject. Such response includes alleviation of the symptoms of the disease or disorder being treated prevention inhibition or a delay in the recurrence of symptom of the disease or of the disease itself an increase in the longevity of the subject compared with the absence of the treatment or prevention inhibition or delay in the progression of symptom of the disease or of the disease itself. Determination of the effective amount is well within the capability of those skilled in the art especially in light of the detailed disclosure provided herein. Toxicity and therapeutic efficacy of compound I can be determined by standard pharmaceutical procedures in cell cultures and in experimental animals. The effective amount of compound or conjugate of the present invention or other therapeutic agent to be administered to a subject will depend on the stage category and status of the multiple myeloma and characteristics of the subject such as general health age sex body weight and drug tolerance. The effective amount of compound or conjugate of the present invention or other therapeutic agent to be administered will also depend on administration route and dosage form. Dosage amount and interval can be adjusted individually to provide plasma levels of the active compound that are sufficient to maintain desired therapeutic effects.

The present invention is directed to cytotoxic compounds described herein e.g. compounds of formulas I II III and IV . In one embodiment the cytotoxic compounds of the present invention do not include any compounds described in US 2010 0203007 the entire teaching of which is incorporated herein by reference such as those specifically disclaimed in the proviso below.

In a first specific embodiment the invention provides a cytotoxic compound comprising a linking group with a reactive group bonded thereto capable of covalently linking the cytotoxic compound to a cell binding agent CBA wherein said cytotoxic compound is represented by any one of the following formulas I II III or IV 

In certain embodiments X is not the linking group with the reactive group bonded thereto. In certain embodiments the double line between N and C represents a single bond Y is not H.

In certain embodiments the cytotoxic compounds of the present invention are not any one of the following compounds 

In certain embodiments Y is H or a leaving group selected from OR OCOR OCOOR OCONR R NR R NR COR NR NR R an optionally substituted 5 or 6 membered nitrogen containing heterocycle e.g. piperidine tetrahydropyrrole pyrazole morpholine etc. a guanidinum represented by NR C NH NR R an amino acid or a peptide represented by NRCOP wherein P is an amino acid or a polypeptide containing between 2 to 20 amino acid units SR SOR SOM SOM OSOM halogen cyano and an azido. Preferably Y is Sodium Bisulfite adduct Sodium Hydrosulfite adduct or Sodium Metabisulfite adduct. In certain embodiments Y is not H.

In certain embodiments L is absent or is selected from an optionally substituted phenyl group and an optionally substituted pyridyl group wherein the phenyl and the pyridyl group bears the linking group with the reactive group bonded thereto or L is an amine group bearing the linking group with the reactive group bonded thereto i.e. N linking group or L is a linear branched or cyclic alkyl or alkenyl having from 1 to 6 carbon atoms and bearing the linking group with the reactive group bonded thereto.

In a second specific embodiment for cytotoxic dimers I II III and IV the variables are as described below 

In a third specific embodiment the cytotoxic dimers of formula I II III and IV are represented by the following formulas 

In certain embodiments X is not the linking group with the reactive group bonded thereto. In certain embodiments the double line between N and C represents a single bond Y is not H.

In a fourth specific embodiment for the cytotoxic dimers of formula IA IIA IIIA or IVA L is represented by the formula W R V R J 

In certain embodiments R is H or Me Ris a linear or branched alkyl having 1 to 6 carbon atoms or CH CH O R n is an integer from 2 to 8 preferably Ris H Me or CHCH NMe and the remainder of the variables are as described above in the fourth specific embodiment.

In certain embodiments V is an amino acid or a peptide having 2 to 8 amino acids. In certain embodiments V is valine citrulline gly gly gly or ala leu ala leu.

In certain embodiments such as in the fourth and or the fifth specific embodiment Ris CH CH O R wherein Ris a H a linear branched cyclic alkyl having 1 to 6 carbon atoms.

In a sixth specific embodiments such as in the fourth and or the fifth specific embodiment L is represented by the following formula NR CRR S CRR COE.

In a seventh specific embodiments such as in the fourth and or the fifth specific embodiment L is represented by the following formula NR CRR S Cy CRR COE.

In a eighth specific embodiment the cytotoxic dimers of formula I II III and IV are represented by the following formulas 

Preferably Ris H or Me and n is an integer from 2 to 8. Preferably Ris a linear or branched alkyl having 1 to 6 carbon atoms and the remainder of the variables is as described above in the third fourth and or the fifth specific embodiment.

In a ninth specific embodiment the cytotoxic dimers of formula I II III and IV are represented by the following formulas 

In certain embodiments Ris CH CH O R wherein Ris a H a linear branched cyclic alkyl having 1 to 6 carbon atoms.

In certain embodiments Rmay be CH CRR wherein Rand Rare each independently selected from H or a linear or branched alkyl having 1 to 4 carbon atoms and p is 0 1 2 or 3.

In a tenth specific embodiment the compounds of formula VIII IX X and XI described in the ninth specific embodiment the variables are as described below 

In another embodiment the compounds of formula VIII IX X and XI described in the ninth specific embodiment the variables are as described below 

Preferably Ris H or Me and n is an integer from 2 to 8. Preferably Ris a linear or branched alkyl having 1 to 6 carbon atoms.

Preferably Ris CH CRR wherein Rand Rare each independently selected from H or a linear or branched alkyl having 1 to 4 carbon atoms p is 0 1 2 or 3. More preferably Rand Rare the same or different and are selected from H and Me and p is 1.

In another preferred embodiment the linker is represented by any one of the formula selected from formulas a1 a4 a5 a10 and a11 shown above and the remainder of the variables are as described above in the tenth specific embodiment.

In a eleventh specific embodiment for compounds of formula IB IIB IIIB and IVB described in the eighth specific embodiment the variables are as described below 

Preferably Ris CH CRR wherein Rand Rare each independently selected from H or a linear or branched alkyl having 1 to 4 carbon atoms p is 0 1 2 or 3. More preferably Rand Rare the same or different and are selected from H and Me and p is 1.

In any of the specific embodiments above e.g. the first to the 11specific embodiments the double line between N and C may represent a double bond.

In any of the specific embodiments above e.g. the first to the 11specific embodiments the double line between N and C may represent a single bond X is H the linking group with the reactive group bonded thereto or an amine protecting group e.g. X is H or an amine protecting group and Y is selected from H OR OCOR SR NR R an optionally substituted 5 or 6 membered nitrogen containing heterocycle SOM SOM and a sulfate OSOM e.g. Y is OR OCOR SR NR R an optionally substituted 5 or 6 membered nitrogen containing heterocycle SOM SOM and a sulfate OSOM .

In certain embodiments Y is selected from H SOM OH OMe OEt or NHOH e.g. Y is SOM OH OMe OEt or NHOH .

In any of the specific embodiments above e.g. the first to the 11specific embodiments W when present is C O.

In any of the specific embodiments above e.g. the first to the 11specific embodiments Z and Z when present are CH.

In any of the specific embodiments above e.g. the first to the 11specific embodiments X is selected from the group consisting of H OH an optionally substituted linear branched or cyclic alkyl alkenyl or alkynyl having from 1 to 10 carbon atoms phenyl the linking group with the reactive group bounded thereto and an amine protecting group.

In any of the specific embodiments above e.g. the first to the 11specific embodiments Y is selected from the group consisting of H an oxo group a substituted or unsubstituted linear branched or cyclic alkyl alkenyl or alkynyl having from 1 to 10 carbon atoms.

In any of the specific embodiments above e.g. the first to the 11specific embodiments A and A are the same or different and are selected from O S NRand oxo C O . A and A may be same or different and selected from O and S . Preferably both A and A are O .

In any of the specific embodiments above e.g. the first to the 11specific embodiments D and D when present are the same or different and are independently selected from a polyethylene glycol unit OCHCH wherein n is an integer from 1 to 24 an amino acid a peptide bearing 2 to 6 amino acids or a linear branched or cyclic alkyl alkenyl or alkynyl having 1 to 10 carbon atoms wherein the alkyl alkenyl and alkynyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen OR NR COR SR and COR . Preferably D and D are linear or branched alkyl bearing 1 to 4 carbon atoms.

In a twelfth embodiment the cytotoxic compound of the present invention as described in the first third and ninth embodiment is represented by the following 

In one embodiment compound 29b can used in methods of the present invention described herein. In a preferred embodiment compound 29b can be used for treating a proliferative disorder such as cancer.

In another embodiment compound 29b can be used for screening cell lines to identify cell lines that are sensitive to benzodiazepine compounds such as benzodiazepine derivatives described herein.

The cytotoxic compounds described above comprise a linking group with a reactive group bonded thereto which compounds may result from reacting a bifunctional crosslinking reagent with linker less compounds to form the so called drug linker compounds. Alternatively drug compounds that are otherwise identical to the drug linker compounds but without the linker moiety are also encompassed by the present invention.

Thus in certain embodiments the invention provides a cytotoxic compound without linking group but may be capable of reacting with a bifunctional crosslinking agent to form a compound of the invention such as any one of the 1to the 12specific embodiments described above or to form a cell binding agent conjugate of the invention such as those described below . An exemplary linkerless cytotoxic compound of the invention includes compound 29b of the 13specific embodiment above. The linkerless cytotoxic compounds of the invention are represented by any one of the following formulas I II III or IV 

In certain embodiments the double line between N and C represents a single bond or a double bond provided that when it is a double bond X is absent and Y is H and when it is a single bond X is selected from H or an amine protecting group preferably X is H W is C O R R R R R R R and R are H Z and Z are CH A and A are both O W is C O G is CH Ris H or optionally substituted C1 C10 linear C1 C10 branched or C3 C7 cyclic alkyl O alkyl or O haloalkyl such as OMe X is selected from the group consisting of H OH a substituted or unsubstituted linear branched or cyclic alkyl alkenyl or alkynyl having from 1 to 10 carbon atoms phenyl and an amine protecting group and Y is selected from the group consisting of H an oxo group a substituted or unsubstituted linear branched or cyclic alkyl alkenyl or alkynyl having from 1 to 10 carbon atoms.

Preferably when Y is not H Y is selected from OR OCOR SR NR R SOM SOM or OSOM wherein M is H or a cation such as Na. K. Preferably Y is selected from H OH OMe OEt NHOH or SOM e.g. Y is OH OMe OEt NHOH or SOM . Even more preferably Y is H OH or SOM e.g. Y is OH or SOM preferably M is H or Na.

In certain embodiments the double line between N and C represents a single bond or a double bond provided that when it is a double bond X is absent and Y is H and when it is a single bond X is selected from H or an amine protecting group preferably X is H W is C O R R R R R R R R X and Y are H Z and Z are CH A and A are both O W is C O G is CH Ris H or optionally substituted C1 C10 linear C1 C10 branched or C3 C7 cyclic alkyl O alkyl or O haloalkyl such as OMe.

The bifunctional crosslinking agents can be any bifunctional linker known in the art. For example the bifunctional linkers can be used for making the drug linker compounds are those that form disulfide bonds thioether bonds acid labile bonds photolabile bonds peptidase labile bonds and esterase labile bonds with the cytotoxic compounds see for example U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 208 020 5 475 092 6 441 163 6 716 821 6 913 748 7 276 497 7 276 499 7 368 565 7 388 026 and 7 414 073 all of which are incorporated herein by reference . Preferably the bifunctional crosslinking agents are those that form disulfide bonds thioether and peptidase labile bonds with the cytotoxic compounds. Other bifunctional crosslinking agents that can be used in the present invention include non cleavable linkers such as those described in U.S. publication number US 2005 0169933 or charged linkers or hydrophilic linkers and are described in US 2009 0274713 US 2010 01293140 and WO 2009 134976 each of which is expressly incorporated herein by reference. The bifunctional crosslinking agents that can be used for making the drug linker compounds of the present invention also include those described in the entire teaching of which is incorporated herein by reference.

Representative processes for preparing the cytotoxic dimer compounds of the present invention are shown in . The dimers were prepared by reacting a monomer with linker compounds which possess two leaving groups such as halogen triflate mesylate or tosylate such as that described for the synthesis of 1c in . Synthesis of representative dimers which bear a thiol or disulfide moiety to enable linkage to cell binding agents via reducible or non reducible bonds are shown in . In a linker containing a short polyethylene glycol moiety and an alkyl disulfide was prepared through reductive amination of 1a. Conversion of 1b to its corresponding mesylate and coupling with the IBD indolinobenzodiazepine monomer unit gave dimer 1c which was reduced to the mono imine converted to the free thiol and coupled with 2 to give compound 1g of the present invention. In a modified form of IBD monomer was prepared and coupled to give a dimer of the present invention in which the reduced imine was converted to a linker describes a dimer possessing a short polyethylene glycol moiety and an amide disulfide which was reduced to thiol 4c and converted to a reactive ester. describes the synthesis of pyridyl disulfide containing linker 5e which was converted to the mono imine thiol 5i of the present invention before being converted to a reactive ester. Synthesis of representative dimers which possess linkers that can react with cell binding agents are prepared by converting the methyl esters to the corresponding reactive esters of a leaving group such as but not limited to N hydroxysuccinimide esters N hydroxyphthalimide esters N hydroxy sulfo succinimide esters para nitrophenyl esters pentafluorophenyl esters are shown in .

Representative processes for preparing the cytotoxic dimer compounds of the present invention suitable for one step conjugation with a cell binding agent are shown in . In all of these examples a dimer containing a thiol moiety is reacted with a bifunctional crosslinking reagent possessing a reactive group such as but not limited to a thiopyridyl a maleimide iodide bromide or tosylate on one side and a reactive substituent suitable for reaction with a cell binding agent such as but not limited to N hydroxysuccinimide esters N hydroxyphtalimide esters N hydroxy sulfo succinimide esters paranitrophenyl esters pentafluorophenyl esters.

Alternative synthetic processes for preparing representative cytotoxic dimer compounds of the present invention are shown in . In the synthesis of the mono reduced dimer i.e. having one imine group is accomplished by a two step coupling method in which a reduced form of monomer is either initially coupled to the linker followed by coupling with the IBD monomer or the dimer is prepared using a mixture of both reduced monomer and the IBD monomer in the coupling with the reactive linker. While the di reduced dimer is potentially a byproduct of the second synthetic pathway previously described a more direct route is shown in in which the reduced monomer is coupled to both with the linker directly.

The effectiveness of the conjugates of the invention as therapeutic agents depends on the careful selection of an appropriate cell binding agent. Cell binding agents may be of any kind presently known or that become known and includes peptides and non peptides. Generally these can be antibodies especially monoclonal antibodies lymphokines hormones growth factors vitamins such as folate etc. which may bind to a cell surface receptor thereof e.g. a folate receptor nutrient transport molecules such as transferrin or any other cell binding molecule or substance.

In certain embodiments the cell binding agents are proteins or polypeptides or compounds comprising proteins or polypeptides. Preferably the proteins or polypeptides comprise one or more Lys residues with side chain NHgroups. Alternatively or in addition the proteins or polypeptides comprise one or more Cys residues. The side chain SH groups of the Cys residues may be intact or may be in a disulfide bond that can be reduced. Preferably reduction of the disulfide bond s does not significantly negatively impact the cell binding function of the proteins or polypeptides e.g. in the case of antibody or antigen binding portion thereof reduction of the disulfide bonds does not substantially increase the dissociation of light chains heavy chains .

The Lys side chain NHgroups and or the Cys side chain SH groups may be covalently linked to the linkers which are in turn linked to the dimer compounds of the invention thus conjugating the cell binding agents to the dimer compounds of the invention. Each protein based cell binding agents may contain multiple Lys side chain NHgroups and or the Cys side chain SH groups available for linking the compounds of the invention through the bifunctional crosslinkers.

Monoclonal antibody techniques allow for the production of extremely specific cell binding agents in the form of specific monoclonal antibodies. Particularly well known in the art are techniques for creating monoclonal antibodies produced by immunizing mice rats hamsters or any other mammal with the antigen of interest such as the intact target cell antigens isolated from the target cell whole virus attenuated whole virus and viral proteins such as viral coat proteins. Sensitized human cells can also be used. Another method of creating monoclonal antibodies is the use of phage libraries of scFv single chain variable region specifically human scFv see e.g. Griffiths et al. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 885 793 and 5 969 108 McCafferty et al. WO 92 01047 Liming et al. WO 99 06587 . In addition resurfaced antibodies disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 639 641 may also be used as may chimeric antibodies and humanized antibodies. Selection of the appropriate cell binding agent is a matter of choice that depends upon the particular cell population that is to be targeted but in general human monoclonal antibodies are preferred if an appropriate one is available.

For example the monoclonal antibody MY9 is a murine IgG1 antibody that binds specifically to the CD33 Antigen J. D. Griffin et al 8 Leukemia Res. 521 1984 and can be used if the target cells express CD33 as in the disease of acute myelogenous leukemia AML . The cell binding agent may be any compound that can bind a cell either in a specific or non specific manner. Generally these can be antibodies especially monoclonal antibodies and antibody fragments interferons lymphokines hormones growth factors vitamins nutrient transport molecules such as transferrin or any other cell binding molecule or substance.

Where the cell binding agent is an antibody it binds to an antigen that is a polypeptide and may be a transmembrane molecule e.g. receptor or a ligand such as a growth factor. Exemplary antigens include molecules such as renin a growth hormone including human growth hormone and bovine growth hormone growth hormone releasing factor parathyroid hormone thyroid stimulating hormone lipoproteins alpha 1 antitrypsin insulin A chain insulin B chain proinsulin follicle stimulating hormone calcitonin luteinizing hormone glucagon clotting factors such as factor vmc factor IX tissue factor TF and von Willebrands factor anti clotting factors such as Protein C atrial natriuretic factor lung surfactant a plasminogen activator such as urokinase or human urine or tissue type plasminogen activator t PA bombesin thrombin hemopoietic growth factor tumor necrosis factor alpha and beta enkephalinase RANTES regulated on activation normally T cell expressed and secreted human macrophage inflammatory protein MIP 1 alpha a serum albumin such as human serum albumin Muellerian inhibiting substance relaxin A chain relaxin B chain prorelaxin mouse gonadotropin associated peptide a microbial protein such as beta lactamase DNase IgE a cytotoxic T lymphocyte associated antigen CTLA such as CTLA 4 inhibin activin vascular endothelial growth factor VEGF receptors for hormones or growth factors protein A or D rheumatoid factors a neurotrophic factor such as bone derived neurotrophic factor BDNF neurotrophin 3 4 5 or 6 NT 3 NT4 NT 5 or NT 6 or a nerve growth factor such as NGF platelet derived growth factor PDGF fibroblast growth factor such as aFGF and bFGF fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 FGFR2 epidermal growth factor EGF transforming growth factor TGF such as TGF alpha and TGF beta including TGF 1 TGF 2 TGF 3 TGF 4 or TGF 5 insulin like growth factor I and II IGF I and IGF II des 1 3 IGF I brain IGF I insulin like growth factor binding proteins melanotransferrin EpCAM GD3 FLT3 PSMA PSCA MUC1 MUC16 STEAP CEA TENB2 EphA receptors EphB receptors folate receptor FOLR1 mesothelin cripto alphabeta integrins VEGF VEGFR EGFR transferrin receptor IRTA1 IRTA2 IRTA3 IRTA4 IRTA5 CD proteins such as CD2 CD3 CD4 CD5 CD6 CD8 CD11 CD14 CD19 CD20 CD21 CD22 CD25 CD26 CD28 CD30 CD33 CD36 CD37 CD38 CD40 CD44 CD52 CD55 CD56 CD59 CD70 CD79 CD80. CD81 CD103 CD105 CD134 CD137 CD138 CD152 or an antibody which binds to one or more tumor associated antigens or cell surface receptors disclosed in US Publication No. 20080171040 or US Publication No. 20080305044 and are incorporated in their entirety by reference erythropoietin osteoinductive factors immunotoxins a bone morphogenetic protein BMP an interferon such as interferon alpha beta and gamma colony stimulating factors CSFs e.g. M CSF GM CSF and G CSF interleukins ILs e.g. IL 1 to IL 10 superoxide dismutase T cell receptors surface membrane proteins decay accelerating factor viral antigen such as for example a portion of the HIV envelope transport proteins homing receptors addressins regulatory proteins integrins such as CD11a CD11b CD11c CD18 an ICAM VLA 4 and VCAM a tumor associated antigen such as HER2 HER3 or HER4 receptor endoglin c Met c kit 1GF1R PSGR NGEP PSMA PSCA LGR5 B7H4 and fragments of any of the above listed polypeptides.

Additionally GM CSF which binds to myeloid cells can be used as a cell binding agent to diseased cells from acute myelogenous leukemia. IL 2 which binds to activated T cells can be used for prevention of transplant graft rejection for therapy and prevention of graft versus host disease and for treatment of acute T cell leukemia. MSH which binds to melanocytes can be used for the treatment of melanoma as can antibodies directed towards melanomas. Folic acid can be used to target the folate receptor expressed on ovarian and other tumors. Epidermal growth factor can be used to target squamous cancers such as lung and head and neck. Somatostatin can be used to target neuroblastomas and other tumor types.

Cancers of the breast and testes can be successfully targeted with estrogen or estrogen analogues or androgen or androgen analogues respectively as cell binding agents.

In one embodiment the cell binding agent is humanized monoclonal antibodies. In another embodiment the cell binding agent is huMy9 6 or other related antibodies which are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 342 110 and 7 557 189 incorporated herein by reference . In another embodiment the cell binding agent is an anti folate receptor antibody described in U.S. Provisional Application Nos. 61 307 797 61 346 595 61 413 172 and U.S. application Ser. No. 13 033 723 published as US 2012 0009181 A1 . The teachings of all these applications are incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

In certain embodiments the cell binding agent may be a monoclonal antibody or antigen binding portions thereof sharing sequences critical for antigen binding with an antibody disclosed herein such as huMy9 6 or its related antibodies described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 342 110 and 7 557 189 incorporated herein by reference . These derivative antibodies may have substantially the same or identical 1 light chain and or heavy chain CDR3 regions 2 light chain and or heavy chain CDR1 CDR2 and CDR3 regions or 3 light chain and or heavy chain regions compared to an antibody described herein. Sequences within these regions may contain conservative amino acid substitutions including substitutions within the CDR regions. Preferably there is no more than 1 2 3 4 or 5 conservative substitutions. In certain embodiments the derivative antibodies have a light chain region and or a heavy chain region that is at least about 90 95 99 or 100 identical to an antibody described herein. These derivative antibodies may have substantially the same binding specificity and or affinity to the target antigen compared to an antibody described herein. Preferably the Kand or kvalues of the derivative antibodies are within 10 fold either higher or lower 5 fold either higher or lower 3 fold either higher or lower or 2 fold either higher or lower of an antibody described herein. These derivative antibodies may be fully human antibodies or humanized antibodies or chimeric antibodies. The derivative antibodies may be produced according to any art recognized methods.

In one embodiment the anti folate receptor antibody is a humanized antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof that specifically binds a human folate receptor 1 wherein the antibody comprises a a heavy chain CDR1 comprising GYFMN SEQ ID NO 1 a heavy chain CDR2 comprising RIHPYDGDTFYNQXaaFXaaXaa SEQ ID NO 2 and a heavy chain CDR3 comprising YDGSRAMDY SEQ ID NO 3 and b a light chain CDR1 comprising KASQSVSFAGTSLMH SEQ ID NO 4 a light chain CDR2 comprising RASNLEA SEQ ID NO 5 and a light chain CDR3 comprising QQSREYPYT SEQ ID NO 6 wherein Xaais selected from K Q H and R Xaais selected from Q H N and R and Xaais selected from G E T S A and V. Preferably the heavy chain CDR2 sequence comprises RIHPYDGDTFYNQKFQG SEQ ID NO 7 .

In another embodiment the anti folate receptor antibody is a humanized antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof that specifically binds the human folate receptor 1 comprising the heavy chain having the amino acid sequence of QVQLVQSGAEVVKPGASVKISCKASGYTFTGYFMNWVKQSPGQSLEWIGRIHPY DGDTFYNQKFQGKATLTVDKSSNTAHMELLSLTSEDFAVYYCTRYDGSRAMDY WGQGTTVTVSSASTKGPSVFPLAPSSKSTSGGTAALGCLVKDYFPEPVTVSWNS GALTSGVHTFPAVLQSSGLYSLSSVVTVPSSSLGTQTYICNVNHKPSNTKVDKKV EPKSCDKTHTCPPCPAPELLGGPSVFLFPPKPKDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSHEDP EVKFNWYVDGVEVHNAKTKPREEQYNSTYRVVSVLTVLHQDWLNGKEYKCKV SNKALPAPIEKTISKAKGQPREPQVYTLPPSRDELTKNQVSLTCLVKGFYPSDIAV EWESNGQPENNYKTTPPVLDSDGSFFLYSKLTVDKSRWQQGNVFSCSVMHEAL HNHYTQKSLSLSPGK SEQ ID NO 8 .

In another embodiment the anti folate antibody is a humanized antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof encoded by the plasmid DNA deposited with the ATCC on Apr. 7 2010 and having ATCC deposit nos. PTA 10772 and PTA 10773 or 10774.

In another embodiment the anti folate receptor antibody is a humanized antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof that specifically binds the human folate receptor 1 comprising the light chain having the amino acid sequence of DIVLTQSPLSLAVSLGQPAIISCKASQSVSFAGTSLMHWYHQKPGQQPRLLIYRAS NLEAGVPDRFSGSGSKTDFTLNISPVEAEDAATYYCQQSREYPYTFGGGTKLEIK RTVAAPSVFIFPPSDEQLKSGTASVVCLLNNFYPREAKVQWKVDNALQSGNSQE SVTEQDSKDSTYSLSSTLTLSKADYEKHKVYACEVTHQGLSSPVTKSFNRGEC SEQ ID NO 9 or DIVLTQSPLSLAVSLGQPAIISCKASQSVSFAGTSLMHWYHQKPGQQPRLLIYRAS NLEAGVPDRFSGSGSKTDFTLTISPVEAEDAATYYCQQSREYPYTFGGGTKLEIK RTVAAPSVFIFPPSDEQLKSGTASVVCLLNNFYPREAKVQWKVDNALQSGNSQE SVTEQDSKDSTYSLSSTLTLSKADYEKHKVYACEVTHQGLSSPVTKSFNRGEC SEQ ID NO 10 .

In another embodiment the anti folate receptor antibody is a humanized antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof that specifically binds the human folate receptor 1 comprising the heavy chain having the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 8 and the light chain having the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 9 or SEQ ID NO 10. Preferably the antibody comprises the heavy chain having the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 8 and the light chain having the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 10 hu FOLR1 .

In another embodiment the anti folate receptor antibody is a humanized antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof encoded by the plasmid DNA deposited with the ATCC on Apr. 7 2010 and having ATCC deposit nos. PTA 10772 and PTA 10773 or 10774.

In another embodiment the anti folate receptor antibody is a humanized antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof comprising a heavy chain variable domain at least about 90 95 99 or 100 identical to QVQLVQSGAEVVKPGASVKISCKASGYTFTGYFMNWVKQSPGQSLEWIGRIHPY DGDTFYNQKFQGKATLTVDKSSNTAHMELLSLTSEDFAVYYCTRYDGSRAMDY WGQGTTVTVSS SEQ ID NO 11 and a light chain variable domain at least about 90 95 99 or 100 identical to DIVLTQSPLSLAVSLGQPAIISCKASQSVSFAGTSLMHWYHQKPGQQPRLLIYRAS NLEAGVPDRFSGSGSKTDFTLNISPVEAEDAATYYCQQSREYPYTFGGGTKLEIK R SEQ ID NO 12 or DIVLTQSPLSLAVSLGQPAIISCKASQSVSFAGTSLMHWYHQKPGQQPRLLIYR ASNLEAGVPDRFSGSGSKTDFTLTISPVEAEDAATYYCQQSREYPYTFGGGTKLEI KR SEQ ID NO 13 .

The present invention also provides cell binding agent drug conjugates comprising a cell binding agent linked to one or more cytotoxic compounds of the present invention via a variety of linkers including but not limited to disulfide linkers thioether linkers amide bonded linkers peptidase labile linkers acid labile linkers esterase labile linkers.

Representative conjugates of the invention are antibody cytotoxic compound antibody fragment cytotoxic compound epidermal growth factor EGF cytotoxic compound melanocyte stimulating hormone MSH cytotoxic compound thyroid stimulating hormone TSH cytotoxic compound somatostatin cytotoxic compound folate cytotoxic compound estrogen cytotoxic compound estrogen analogue cytotoxic compound androgen cytotoxic compound and androgen analogue cytotoxic compound. A representative folate cytotoxic compound conjugate is depicted below with the optional SONa adduct on the imine bond of one of the two drug monomers. A representative synthesis scheme for this conjugate is shown in .

In a preferred embodiment the present invention provides conjugates comprising an indolinobenzodiazepine dimer compound e.g. compounds of formulas I IV IA IVA and IB IVB and the cell binding agent linked through a covalent bond. The linker can be cleaved at the site of the tumor unwanted proliferating cells to deliver the cytotoxic agent to its target in a number of ways. The linker can be cleaved for example by low pH hydrazone reductive environment disulfide proteolysis amide peptide link or through an enzymatic reaction esterase glycosidase .

In a preferred aspect representative cytotoxic conjugates of the invention are antibody indolinobenzodiazepine dimer compound antibody fragment indolinobenzodiazepine dimer compound epidermal growth factor EGF indolinobenzodiazepine dimer compound melanocyte stimulating hormone MSH indolinobenzodiazepine dimer compound thyroid stimulating hormone TSH indolinobenzodiazepine dimer compound somatostatin indolinobenzodiazepine dimer compound folate indolinobenzodiazepine dimer compound estrogen indolinobenzodiazepine dimer compound estrogen analogue indolinobenzodiazepine dimer compound prostate specific membrane antigen PSMA inhibitor indolinobenzodiazepine dimer compound matriptase inhibitor indolinobenzodiazepine dimer compound designed ankyrin repeat proteins DARPins indolinobenzodiazepine dimer compound androgen indolinobenzodiazepine dimer compound and androgen analogue indolinobenzodiazepine dimer compound.

Thus in the fourteenth specific embodiment the invention provides a conjugate comprising a cytotoxic compound and a cell binding agent CBA wherein the cytotoxic compound comprises a linking group which covalently links the cytotoxic compound to the CBA and wherein the cytotoxic compound is represented by any one of the following formulas 

In certain embodiments X is not the linking group. In certain embodiments the double line between N and C represents a single bond Y is not H.

In certain embodiments Y is a leaving group selected from OR OCOR OCOOR OCONR R NR R NR COR NR NR R an optionally substituted 5 or 6 membered nitrogen containing heterocycle e.g. piperidine tetrahydropyrrole pyrazole morpholine etc. a guanidinum represented by NR C NH NR R an amino acid or a peptide represented by NRCOP wherein P is an amino acid or a polypeptide containing between 2 to 20 amino acid units SR SOR SOM SOM OSOM halogen cyano and an azido.

In certain embodiments L is absent or is selected from an optionally substituted phenyl group and an optionally substituted pyridyl group wherein the phenyl and the pyridyl group bears the linking group or L is an amine group bearing the linking group i.e. N linking group or L is a linear branched or cyclic alkyl or alkenyl having from 1 to 6 carbon atoms and bearing the linking group.

In the fifteenth specific embodiment the compound is represented by any one of the following formulas 

In certain embodiments one of L L or L is the linking group while the others are H. Preferably L is the linking group and L and L are H.

In certain embodiments R is H or Me Ris a linear or branched alkyl having 1 to 6 carbon atoms or CH CH O R n is an integer from 2 to 8 and Ris H Me or CHCH NMe and the remainder of the variables are as described above in the fifteenth specific embodiment.

In a seventeenth specific embodiment L in the sixteenth specific embodiment is represented by the following formula W CRR V Cy CRR C O 

In certain embodiments such as in the sixteenth or the seventeenth specific embodiment Ris CH CH O R wherein Ris a linear or branched alkyl having 1 to 6 carbon atoms.

In certain embodiments such as in the sixteenth or the seventeenth specific embodiment V is S or SS .

In an eighteenth specific embodiment L in the sixteenth or the seventeenth specific embodiment is represented by the following formula NR CRR S CRR C O .

In certain embodiments such as in the sixteenth to eighteenth specific embodiments the antibody is huMy9 6.

In a nineteenth specific embodiment L in the sixteenth or the seventeenth specific embodiment is represented by the following formula NR CRR S Cy CRR C O .

In certain embodiments such as in the sixteenth seventeenth and the nineteenth specific embodiments the conjugate is 

In certain embodiments such as in the sixteenth seventeenth and the nineteenth specific embodiments the antibody is huMy9 6.

In certain embodiments Ris CH CH O R wherein Ris a H a linear branched cyclic alkyl having 1 to 6 carbon atoms.

In certain embodiments Ris CH CRR wherein Rand Rare each independently selected from H or a linear or branched alkyl having 1 to 4 carbon atoms and p is 0 1 2 or 3.

In a twenty second specific embodiment the conjugate of formula VIII IX X and XI described in the twenty first specific embodiment the variables are as described below 

In a twenty third specific embodiment for compounds of formula IB IIB IIIB and IVB described in the twentieth specific embodiment the variables are as described below 

Preferably Ris CH CRR wherein Rand Rare each independently selected from H or a linear or branched alkyl having 1 to 4 carbon atoms p is 0 1 2 or 3. More preferably Rand Rare the same or different and are selected from H and Me and p is 1.

In any of the specific embodiments for the conjugate of the invention above such as the fourteenth to the twenty third specific embodiments the double line between N and C may represent a double bond.

In any of the specific embodiments for the conjugate of the invention above such as the fourteenth to the twenty third specific embodiments the double line between N and C may represent a single bond X is H the linking group or an amine protecting group e.g. X is H and Y is H or selected from OR OCOR SR NR R an optionally substituted 5 or 6 membered nitrogen containing heterocycle SOM SOM and a sulfate OSOM. In certain embodiments Y is not H.

In certain embodiments Y is selected from H SOM OH OMe OEt or NHOH e.g. Y is SOM OH OMe OEt or NHOH .

In any of the specific embodiments for the conjugate of the invention above such as the fourteenth to the twenty third specific embodiments W when present is C O.

In any of the specific embodiments for the conjugate of the invention above such as the fourteenth to the twenty third specific embodiments Z and Z when present are CH .

In any of the specific embodiments for the conjugate of the invention above such as the fourteenth to the twenty third specific embodiments X is selected from the group consisting of H OH an optionally substituted linear branched or cyclic alkyl alkenyl or alkynyl having from 1 to 10 carbon atoms phenyl the linking group and an amine protecting group.

In any of the specific embodiments for the conjugate of the invention above such as the fourteenth to the twenty third specific embodiments Y is selected from the group consisting of H an oxo group a substituted or unsubstituted linear branched or cyclic alkyl alkenyl or alkynyl having from 1 to 10 carbon atoms.

In any of the specific embodiments for the conjugate of the invention above such as the fourteenth to the twenty third specific embodiments A and A are the same or different and are selected from O S N R and oxo C O .

In any of the specific embodiments for the conjugate of the invention above such as the fourteenth to the twenty third specific embodiments D and D when present are the same or different and are independently selected from a polyethylene glycol unit OCHCH wherein n is an integer from 1 to 24 an amino acid a peptide bearing 2 to 6 amino acids or a linear branched or cyclic alkyl alkenyl or alkynyl having 1 to 10 carbon atoms wherein the alkyl alkenyl and alkynyl are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen OR NR COR SR and COR .

In a twenty fourth specific embodiment the conjugate of the present invention as described in the fourteenth fifteenth or the twenty first specific embodiment is represented by the following 

In certain embodiments the conjugate of any one of the described embodiments such as the fourteenth to the twenty fourth specific embodiments may comprise 1 10 cytotoxic compounds 2 9 cytotoxic compounds 3 8 cytotoxic compounds 4 7 cytotoxic compounds or 5 6 cytotoxic compounds each cytotoxic compound comprising the linking group linking the cytotoxic compound to the CBA and each cytotoxic compound on the conjugate is the same.

In any of the conjugates embodiments such as the fourteenth to the twenty fourth specific embodiments the cell binding agent may bind to target cells selected from tumor cells virus infected cells microorganism infected cells parasite infected cells autoimmune cells activated cells myeloid cells activated T cells B cells or melanocytes cells expressing the CD4 CD6 CD19 CD20 CD22 CD30 CD33 CD37 CD38 CD40 CD44 CD56 EpCAM CanAg CALLA or Her 2 antigens Her 3 antigens or cells expressing insulin growth factor receptor epidermal growth factor receptor and folate receptor.

In any of the conjugates embodiments such as the fourteenth to the twenty fourth specific embodiments the cell binding agent may be an antibody a single chain antibody an antibody fragment that specifically binds to the target cell a monoclonal antibody a single chain monoclonal antibody or a monoclonal antibody fragment that specifically binds to a target cell a chimeric antibody a chimeric antibody fragment that specifically binds to the target cell a domain antibody a domain antibody fragment that specifically binds to the target cell a lymphokine a hormone a vitamin a growth factor a colony stimulating factor or a nutrient transport molecule.

The antibody may be a resurfaced antibody a resurfaced single chain antibody or a resurfaced antibody fragment.

The antibody may be a monoclonal antibody a single chain monoclonal antibody or a monoclonal antibody fragment thereof.

The antibody may be a humanized antibody a humanized single chain antibody or a humanized antibody fragment.

The invention further provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising any of the conjugates described herein and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

The invention further provides a drug linker compound comprising any of the subject compound covalently linked to a bifunctional linker.

The invention additional provides a conjugate comprising any of the subject compounds or the subject drug linker compounds linked to a cell binding agent.

The invention further provides a method of inhibiting abnormal cell growth or treating a proliferative disorder an autoimmune disorder destructive bone disorder infectious disease viral disease fibrotic disease neurodegenerative disorder pancreatitis or kidney disease in a mammal comprising administering to the mammal a therapeutically effective amount of any of the compounds with or without any linker group or conjugates of the invention and optionally a second chemotherapeutic agent.

In certain embodiments the second chemotherapeutic agent is administered to the mammal sequentially or consecutively.

In certain embodiments the method is for treating a condition selected from cancer rheumatoid arthritis multiple sclerosis graft versus host disease GVHD transplant rejection lupus myositis infection and immune deficiency.

In certain embodiments the cancer is selected from breast cancer colon cancer brain cancer prostate cancer kidney cancer pancreatic cancer ovarian cancer head and neck cancer melanoma colorectal cancer gastric cancer squamous cancer small cell lung cancer non small cell lung cancer testicular cancer Merkel cell carcinoma glioblastoma neuroblastoma cancers of lymphatic organs and hematological malignancy including Leukemia Acute lymphoblastic leukemia ALL Acute myelogenous leukemia AML Chronic lymphocytic leukemia CLL Chronic myelogenous leukemia CML Acute monocytic leukemia AMOL Hairy cell leukemia HCL T cell prolymphocytic leukemia T PLL Large granular lymphocytic leukemia Adult T cell leukemia Lymphoma small lymphocytic lymphoma SLL Hodgkin s lymphomas Nodular sclerosis Mixed cellularity Lymphocyte rich Lymphocyte depleted or not depleted and Nodular lymphocyte predominant Hodgkin lymphoma Non Hodgkin s lymphomas all subtypes Chronic lymphocytic leukemia Small lymphocytic lymphoma B cell prolymphocytic leukemia Lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma such as Waldenstr m macroglobulinemia Splenic marginal zone lymphoma Plasma cell neoplasms Plasma cell myeloma Plasmacytoma Monoclonal immunoglobulin deposition diseases Heavy chain diseases Extranodal marginal zone B cell lymphoma MALT lymphoma Nodal marginal zone B cell lymphoma NMZL Follicular lymphoma Mantle cell lymphoma Diffuse large B cell lymphoma Mediastinal thymic large B cell lymphoma Intravascular large B cell lymphoma Primary effusion lymphoma Burkitt lymphoma leukemia T cell prolymphocytic leukemia T cell large granular lymphocytic leukemia Aggressive NK cell leukemia Adult T cell leukemia lymphoma Extranodal NK T cell lymphoma nasal type Enteropathy type T cell lymphoma Hepatosplenic T cell lymphoma Blastic NK cell lymphoma Mycosis fungoides Sezary syndrome Primary cutaneous CD30 positive T cell lymphoproliferative disorders Primary cutaneous anaplastic large cell lymphoma Lymphomatoid papulosis Angioimmunoblastic T cell lymphoma Peripheral T cell lymphoma unspecified Anaplastic large cell lymphoma multiple myeloma plasma cell myeloma or Kahler s disease .

In order to link the cytotoxic compounds or derivative thereof of the present invention to the cell binding agent the cytotoxic compound may comprise a linking moiety with a reactive group bonded thereto. In one embodiment a bifunctional crosslinking reagent can be first reacted with the cytotoxic compound to provide the compound bearing a linking moiety with one reactive group bonded thereto i.e. drug linker compound which can then react with a cell binding agent. Alternatively one end of the bifunctional crosslinking reagent can first react with the cell binding agent to provide the cell binding agent bearing a linking moiety with one reactive group bonded thereto which can then react with a cytotoxic compound. The linking moiety may contain a chemical bond that allows for the release of the cytotoxic moiety at a particular site. Suitable chemical bonds are well known in the art and include disulfide bonds thioether bonds acid labile bonds photolabile bonds peptidase labile bonds and esterase labile bonds see for example U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 208 020 5 475 092 6 441 163 6 716 821 6 913 748 7 276 497 7 276 499 7 368 565 7 388 026 and 7 414 073 . Preferred are disulfide bonds thioether and peptidase labile bonds. Other linkers that can be used in the present invention include non cleavable linkers such as those described in are described in detail in U.S. publication number 2005 0169933 or charged linkers or hydrophilic linkers and are described in US 2009 0274713 US 2010 01293140 and WO 2009 134976 each of which is expressly incorporated herein by reference each of which is expressly incorporated herein by reference.

The compounds of formula I IV IA IVA and IB IVB can be linked through R R R R R R R R L L L or X when present . Of these preferred linkable groups are R R R L L L and most preferred linkable groups are R R and L . Examples of linking groups for compounds of formula I IV IA IVA and IB IVB are described above.

In one embodiment a solution of an antibody in aqueous buffer may be incubated with a molar excess of an antibody modifying agent such as N succinimidyl 3 2 pyridyldithio propionate SPDP or with N succinimidyl 4 2 pyridyldithio butanoate SPDB to introduce dithiopyridyl groups. The modified antibody is then reacted with the thiol containing cytotoxic compound such as compound 2a to produce a disulfide linked antibody indolinobenzodiazepine dimer conjugate. The cell binding agent drug conjugate may then be purified using any purification methods known in the art such as those described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 811 572 and US Publication No. 2006 0182750 both of which are incorporated herein by reference. For example the cell binding agent drug conjugate can be purified using tangential flow filtration adsorptive chromatography adsorptive filtration selective precipitation non absorptive filtration or combination thereof. Preferably tangential flow filtration TFF also known as cross flow filtration ultrafiltration and diafiltration and or adsorptive chromatography resins are used for the purification of the conjugates.

Alternatively the antibody may be incubated with a molar excess of an antibody modifying agent such as 2 iminothiolane L homocysteine thiolactone or derivatives or N succinimidyl S acetylthioacetate SATA to introduce sulfhydryl groups. The modified antibody is then reacted with the appropriate disulfide containing cytotoxic agent to produce a disulfide linked antibody cytotoxic agent conjugate. The antibody cytotoxic agent conjugate may then be purified by methods described above. The cell binding may also be engineered to introduce thiol moieties such as cysteine engineered antibodies disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 772 485 and 7 855 275.

In another embodiment a solution of an antibody in aqueous buffer may be incubated with a molar excess of an antibody modifying agent such as N succinimidyl 4 N maleimidomethyl cyclohexane 1 carboxylate to introduce maleimido groups or with N succinimidyl 4 iodoacetyl aminobenzoate SIAB to introduce iodoacetyl groups. The modified antibody is then reacted with the thiol containing cytotoxic agent to produce a thioether linked antibody cytotoxic conjugate. The antibody cytotoxic conjugate may then be purified by methods described above.

The number of cytotoxic molecules bound per antibody molecule can be determined spectrophotometrically by measuring the ratio of the absorbance at 280 nm and 330 nm. An average of 1 10 cytotoxic compounds antibody molecule s can be linked by the methods described herein. The preferred average number of linked cytotoxic compounds per antibody molecule is 2 5 and the most preferred is 2.5 4.0.

Cytotoxic agents containing linkers terminating in an N hydroxy succinimidyl NHS ester such as compounds 1g and 10 can react with the antibody to produce direct amide linked conjugates such as huMy9 6 SPDB 1f or huMy9 6 BMPS 1f. The antibody cytotoxic agent conjugate may then be purified by gel filtration by any methods described above.

Representative processes for preparing the cell binding agent drug conjugates of the present invention are shown in . A cytotoxic dimer compound of the present invention can be conjugated with a cell binding agent through either a one step or a two step conjugation method. In representative examples are described wherein a dimer compound that possesses a linker such as an N hydroxysuccinimide ester is reacted directly with a cell binding agent such as an antibody generating the desired conjugate. In linkable dimer 1g was first treated with sodium bisulfate to provide a modified dimer compound 26 before adding antibody to form the conjugate huMy9 6 SBDP 1f of the present invention.

A representative example of a two step conjugation method is described in wherein an antibody is first modified with a bifunctional crosslinking agent resulting in an antibody that possesses a desired number of linkers suitable for reaction with a dimer compound having a free thiol moiety. In this example the antibody huMy9 6 was first modified with SPDB to give an antibody with linkers containing the dithiopyridyl moiety. The modified antibody was then exposed to a free thiol such as 2a generating the desired conjugate huMy9 6 SPDB 2a.

Processes for synthesizing the drug linker compounds and conjugates of the invention are also described in U.S. provisional patent application No. 61 443 092 filed on Feb. 15 2011 and a U.S. utility application claiming the benefit of filing date thereof and filed on the same day of the instant application entitled METHODS OF PREPARATION OF CONJUGATES the entire contents of which applications including all drawings formulae synthesis schemes specifications and claims are incorporated herein by reference.

The structures of representative compounds and conjugates of the present invention are shown in Tables 1 8. These compounds and conjugates can be prepared according to the methods described herein.

The cytotoxic compounds and cell binding agent drug conjugates of the invention can be evaluated for their ability to suppress proliferation of various cancer cell lines in vitro. For example cell lines such as the human colon carcinoma line COLO 205 the rhabdomyosarcoma cell line RH 30 and the multiple myeloma cell line MOLP 8 can be used for the assessment of cytotoxicity of these compounds and conjugates. Cells to be evaluated can be exposed to the compounds or conjugates for 1 5 days and the surviving fractions of cells measured in direct assays by known methods. ICvalues can then be calculated from the results of the assays. Alternatively or in addition an in vitro cell line sensitivity screen such as the one described by the U.S. National Cancer Institute see Voskoglou Nomikos et al. 2003 Clinical Cancer Res. 9 42227 4239 incorporated herein by reference can be used as one of the guides to determine the types of cancers that may be sensitive to treatment with the compounds or conjugates of the invention.

Examples of in vitro potency and target specificity of antibody cytotoxic agent conjugates of the present invention are shown in . All of the conjugates are extremely cytotoxic on the antigen positive cancer cells with an ICin the low picomolar range. Antigen negative cell lines remained viable when exposed to the same conjugates. The indolinobenzodiazepine dimers showed target specific potency being 160 fold less potent when blocked with unconjugated antibody huMy9 6 anti CD33 and 40 less potent when blocked with unconjugated antibody FOLR1 anti folate receptor antibody . For example the huMy9 6 SPDB 1f conjugate killed antigen positive HL60 QC cells with an ICvalue of 10.5 pM while the addition of an excess of unconjugated huMy9 6 antibody reduced this cytotoxic effect IC 1.69 nM demonstrating antigen specificity . In addition the huMy9 6 SPDB 1f conjugate is also highly potent towards both the HL60 ATCC cell line with an ICvalue of 21 pM and the NB 4 cell line with an ICvalue of 190 pM .

Similarly the huFOLR1 SPDB 1f conjugate was highly potent with an ICvalue of 55 pM for antigen positive KB cells . Addition of an excess of unconjugated huFOLR1 antibody reduced this cytotoxic effect 40 fold demonstrating antigen specificity.

The effect of conjugation on antibody binding was measured by comparing the binding of both unconjugated huMy9 6 antibody and the huMy9 6 SPDB 1f conjugate towards the HL60 QC cell line . FACS analysis revealed that there is no change in binding capability of the conjugate to naked antibody indicating that there is no compromise in binding due to conjugation of the cytotoxic agent to the antibody.

In one example in vivo efficacy of a cell binding agent cytotoxic agent conjugate was measured. Nude mice bearing human HL60 QC tumors were treated with huMy9 6 SPDB 1f conjugate and significant tumor regression was observed at multiple doses while untreated mice grew tumors rapidly . Activity was observed at doses as low as 20 g kg which is at least 35 fold lower than the maximum tolerated dose.

The effect of imine saturation towards tolerability is shown in Table 9. Di imine huFOLR1 drug1 was tested at multiple doses all of which were found to be highly toxic leaving only survivors in the lowest group tested at 50 g kg. In contrast the partially reduced mono imine huFOLR1 Drug 2 and huFOLR1 SPDB IGN huFOLR1 SPDB 1f conjugates were found to have significantly improved tolerability with the huFOLR1 SPDB IGN huFOLR1 SPDB 1f conjugate showing 100 animal survival at the highest doses tested of 560 g kg.

The present invention includes a composition e.g. a pharmaceutical composition comprising novel benzodiazepine compounds described herein e.g. indolinobenzodiazepine or oxazolidinobenzodiazepine derivatives thereof or conjugates thereof and or solvates hydrates and or salts thereof and a carrier a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier . The present invention also includes a composition e.g. a pharmaceutical composition comprising novel benzodiazepine compounds described herein derivatives thereof or conjugates thereof and or solvates hydrates and or salts thereof and a carrier a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier further comprising a second therapeutic agent. The present compositions are useful for inhibiting abnormal cell growth or treating a proliferative disorder in a mammal e.g. human The present compositions are also useful for treating depression anxiety stress phobias panic dysphoria psychiatric disorders pain and inflammatory diseases in a mammal e.g. human .

The present invention includes a method of inhibiting abnormal cell growth or treating a proliferative disorder in a mammal e.g. human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of novel benzodiazepine compounds described herein e.g. indolinobenzodiazepine or oxazolidinobenzodiazepine derivatives thereof or conjugates thereof and or solvates and salts thereof or a composition thereof alone or in combination with a second therapeutic agent.

The present invention also provides methods of treatment comprising administering to a subject in need of treatment an effective amount of any of the conjugates described above.

Similarly the present invention provides a method for inducing cell death in selected cell populations comprising contacting target cells or tissue containing target cells with an effective amount of a cytotoxic agent comprising any of the cytotoxic compound cell binding agents e.g. indolinobenzodiazepine or oxazolidinobenzodiazepine dimer linked to a cell binding agent of the present invention a salt or solvate thereof. The target cells are cells to which the cell binding agent can bind.

If desired other active agents such as other anti tumor agents may be administered along with the conjugate.

Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable carriers diluents and excipients are well known and can be determined by those of ordinary skill in the art as the clinical situation warrants.

Examples of suitable carriers diluents and or excipients include 1 Dulbecco s phosphate buffered saline pH about 7.4 containing or not containing about 1 mg mL to 25 mg mL human serum albumin 2 0.9 saline 0.9 w v NaCl and 3 5 w v dextrose and may also contain an antioxidant such as tryptamine and a stabilizing agent such as Tween 20.

The method for inducing cell death in selected cell populations can be practiced in vitro in vivo or ex vivo.

Examples of in vitro uses include treatments of autologous bone marrow prior to their transplant into the same patient in order to kill diseased or malignant cells treatments of bone marrow prior to their transplantation in order to kill competent T cells and prevent graft versus host disease GVHD treatments of cell cultures in order to kill all cells except for desired variants that do not express the target antigen or to kill variants that express undesired antigen.

The conditions of non clinical in vitro use are readily determined by one of ordinary skill in the art.

Examples of clinical ex vivo use are to remove tumor cells or lymphoid cells from bone marrow prior to autologous transplantation in cancer treatment or in treatment of autoimmune disease or to remove T cells and other lymphoid cells from autologous or allogenic bone marrow or tissue prior to transplant in order to prevent GVHD. Treatment can be carried out as follows. Bone marrow is harvested from the patient or other individual and then incubated in medium containing serum to which is added the cytotoxic agent of the invention concentrations range from about 10 M to 1 pM for about 30 minutes to about 48 hours at about 37 C. The exact conditions of concentration and time of incubation i.e. the dose are readily determined by one of ordinary skill in the art. After incubation the bone marrow cells are washed with medium containing serum and returned to the patient intravenously according to known methods. In circumstances where the patient receives other treatment such as a course of ablative chemotherapy or total body irradiation between the time of harvest of the marrow and reinfusion of the treated cells the treated marrow cells are stored frozen in liquid nitrogen using standard medical equipment.

For clinical in vivo use the cytotoxic agent of the invention will be supplied as a solution or a lyophilized powder that are tested for sterility and for endotoxin levels. Examples of suitable protocols of conjugate administration are as follows. Conjugates are given weekly for 4 weeks as an intravenous bolus each week. Bolus doses are given in 50 to 1000 mL of normal saline to which 5 to 10 mL of human serum albumin can be added. Dosages will be 10 g to 2000 mg per administration intravenously range of 100 ng to 20 mg kg per day . After four weeks of treatment the patient can continue to receive treatment on a weekly basis. Specific clinical protocols with regard to route of administration excipients diluents dosages times etc. can be determined by one of ordinary skill in the art as the clinical situation warrants.

Examples of medical conditions that can be treated according to the in vivo or ex vivo methods of inducing cell death in selected cell populations include malignancy of any type including for example cancer of the lung small cell and non small cell breast colon brain prostate kidney pancreas ovary head and neck skin melanoma Merkel cell carcinoma glioblastoma neuroblastoma and cancers of lymphatic organs autoimmune diseases such as systemic lupus rheumatoid arthritis and multiple sclerosis graft rejections such as renal transplant rejection liver transplant rejection lung transplant rejection cardiac transplant rejection and bone marrow transplant rejection graft versus host disease viral infections such as CMV infection HIV infection AIDS etc. and parasite infections such as giardiasis amoebiasis schistosomiasis and others as determined by one of ordinary skill in the art.

Cancer therapies and their dosages routes of administration and recommended usage are known in the art and have been described in such literature as the Physician s Desk Reference PDR . The PDR discloses dosages of the agents that have been used in treatment of various cancers. The dosing regimen and dosages of these aforementioned chemotherapeutic drugs that are therapeutically effective will depend on the particular cancer being treated the extent of the disease and other factors familiar to the physician of skill in the art and can be determined by the physician. The contents of the PDR are expressly incorporated herein in its entirety by reference. One of skill in the art can review the PDR using one or more of the following parameters to determine dosing regimen and dosages of the chemotherapeutic agents and conjugates that can be used in accordance with the teachings of this invention. These parameters include 

One skilled in the art of cytotoxic agents will readily understand that each of the cytotoxic agents described herein can be modified in such a manner that the resulting compound still retains the specificity and or activity of the starting compound. The skilled artisan will also understand that many of these compounds can be used in place of the cytotoxic agents described herein. Thus the cytotoxic agents of the present invention include analogues and derivatives of the compounds described herein.

All references cited herein and in the examples that follow are expressly incorporated by reference in their entireties.

The invention will now be illustrated by reference to non limiting examples. Unless otherwise stated all percents ratios parts etc. are by weight. All reagents were purchased from the Aldrich Chemical Co. New Jersey or other commercial sources. Nuclear Magnetic Resonance H NMR spectra were acquired on a Bruker 400 MHz instrument and mass spectra were acquired on a Bruker Daltonics Esquire 3000 instrument using electrospray ionization.

To a stirred solution of the aniline 1a 1.55 g 5.18 mmol and 2 methyldithio isobutyraldehyde 0.7 mL 5.18 mmol in anhydrous 1 2 dichloromethane 20 mL was added sodium triacetoxyborohydride 1.1 g 5.18 mmol and zinc chloride powder 353 mg 2.59 mmol followed by the addition of anhydrous magnesium sulfate 800 mg . The mixture was stirred at room temperature rt for 6 hours then a second portion of 2 methyldithio isobutyraldehyde 0.7 mL 5.18 mmol and sodium triacetoxyborohydride 1.1 g 5.18 mmol were added. It continued to be stirred at rt overnight. The reaction mixture was filtered through celite and washed with dichloromethane. The filtrate was concentrated and the remainder was purified by silica gel chromatography Combiflash 40 g column dichloromethane MeOH to give compound 1b 487 mg y 22 as colorless oil. Unreacted starting material aniline 1a 1.02 g was also recovered in 65 yield. H NMR 400 Hz CDCl 6.76 s 2H 6.63 s 1H 4.55 s 4H 3.65 3.51 m 14H 3.35 s 3H 2.44 s 3H 1.33 s 6H C NMR 400 Hz CDCl 149.0 142.35 114.0 111.1 71.98 70.7 70.6 70.5 67.6 65.5 59.75 59.1 53.9 51.9 26.6 25.7 20.75 MS m z . found 456.2 M Na . See .

To a stirred solution of 1b 243 mg 0.56 mmol in anhydrous dichloromethane 3.5 mL was added triethylamine 234 l 1.68 mmol . The mixture was cooled to 10 C. and methanesulfonyl chloride 113 l 1.46 mmol was added slowly over 15 minutes via a syringe. The solution continued to be stirred for 60 minutes at 10 7 C. and quenched by addition of ice water. It was diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with cold water. The organic layer was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered concentrated and high vacuumed to give the mesylates as light yellowish oil 340 mg . The mesylates was transferred into a 10 mL round bottomed flask with ethyl acetate dichloromethane concentrated and high vacuumed. IBD monomer 412 mg 1.4 mmol was added followed by the addition of anhydrous dimethylformamide 3 mL and anhydrous potassium carbonate 232 mg 1.68 mmol . The obtained yellowish mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. It was diluted with dichloromethane and washed with brine. The organic layer was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The residue was dissolved in dichloromethane and loaded on silica gel column and eluted with dichloromethane methanol 15 1 then 10 1 . The fractions that contained compound 1c were combined and concentrated to give 705 mg of crude product which was further purified by preparative reverse phase HPLC C18 column eluted with acetonitrile water to give compound 1c as a yellowish fluffy solid 181 mg y 33 . H NMR 400 Hz CDCl 8.28 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.86 d J 3.6 Hz 2H 7.59 s 2H 7.31 7.26 m 4H 7.12 t J 7.6 Hz 2H 6.87 6.80 m 5H 5.18 dd J 20.8 Hz J 12.4 Hz 4H 4.50 4.47 m 2H 3.99 s 6H 3.75 3.48 m 18H 3.37 s 3H 2.44 s 3H 1.32 s 6H MS m z . found 1025.9 M HO Na 1043.9 M 2HO Na 983.8 M H 1055.8 M 4HO H . See .

To a stirred solution of compound 1c 112 mg 0.114 mmol in anhydrous dichloromethane 0.3 mL and absolute ethanol 0.6 mL was added sodium borohydride 0.9 mg 0.023 mmol at 0 C. The ice bath was removed after 5 minutes and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 hours and then cooled to 0 C. and quenched with saturated ammonium chloride diluted with dichloromethane separated and the organic layer was washed with brine dried over anhydrous NaSOand filtered through celite and concentrated. The residue was purified by reverse phase HPLC C18 column acetonitrile water . The corresponding fractions were extracted with dichloromethane and concentrated to obtain the products 1d 1e and the unreacted starting material 1c. Compound 1d 37.1 mg y 33 MS m z . found 1010.4 M Na 1028.4 M HO Na 1040.3 M 3HO H compound 1e 6.4 mg y 5.7 MS m z . found 1012.4 M Na compound 1c 44.1 mg y 39 . See .

To a stirred solution of 1d 23.6 mg 0.024 mmol in acetonitrile 3 mL and methanol 3 mL was added freshly prepared TCEP solution 17 mg of TCEP HCl salt was neutralized with saturated sodium bicarbonate to pH 6 6.5 then diluted with 0.5 mL of pH 6.5 phosphate buffer at room temperature. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 hours and then diluted with dichloromethane and deionized water separated and the organic layer was washed with brine dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and filtered. The filtrate was concentrated and high vacuumed to give 22 mg of 1f as light yellowish foam. Another 18 mg of 1f was prepared from 19 mg of 1d following the same procedure. The combined 40 mg 0.042 mmol of if was dissolved in anhydrous dichloromethane 0.5 mL and stirred. To this stirred solution was added SPDB NHS ester 2 34.6 mg 80 purity 0.085 mmol and diisopropylethylamine 15 l 0.085 mmol . It continued to be stirred at room temperature overnight quenched with saturated ammonium chloride and diluted with dichloromethane separated and washed with brine dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by preparative reverse phase HPLC C18 column acetonitrile water . The fractions containing product were combined extracted with dichloromethane and concentrated to give compound 1g as white solid 29.7 mg y 60 . H NMR 400 Hz CDCN 8.28 8.25 m 1H 8.20 8.17 m 1H 7.87 7.84 m 1H 7.49 d J 4.4 Hz 1H 7.39 d J 4.4 Hz 1H 7.31 7.19 m 4H 7.13 7.01 m 2H 6.92 6.87 m 3H 6.77 bs 1H 6.31 6.29 m 1H 5.16 5.09 m 2H 5.00 d J 4.4 Hz 2H 4.94 bs NH 4.48 4.43 m 1H 4.40 4.34 m 1H 3.90 d J 4.4 Hz 3H 3.77 d J 4.4 Hz 3H 3.64 3.39 m 18H 3.26 d J 4.4 Hz 3H 2.82 2.70 m 8H 2.17 d J 4.4 Hz 1H 2.08 2.01 m 3H 1.30 d J 4.4 Hz 6H MS m z . found 1025.9 M HO Na 1043.9 M 2HO Na 983.8 M H 1055.8 M 4HO H MS m z . found 1179.5 M Na . See .

To a stirred solution of 1c 8 mg 0.0081 mmol in anhydrous 1 2 dichloromethane 0.2 mL was added sodium triacetoxyborohydride 3.8 mg 0.018 mmol . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1.5 hours then the mixture was diluted with dichloromethane and quenched with saturated sodium bicarbonate separated and the organic layer was washed with brine dried over sodium sulfate and filtered. The filtrate was concentrated and the remainder was purified by reverse phase HPLC C18 column acetonitrile water to give compound 1e as a white solid 4.7 mg y 58 . MS m z . found 1012.4 M Na 1024.2 M 2HO H . See .

To a stirred solution of compound 1e 12 mg 0.012 mmol in acetonitrile 1 mL and methanol 3 mL was added freshly prepared TCEP solution 11 mg of TCEP HCl salt was neutralized with saturated sodium bicarbonate to pH 6.5 then diluted with 0.4 mL of pH 6.5 phosphate buffer at room temperature. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3.5 hours and then diluted with dichloromethane and deionized water separated and the organic layer was washed with brine dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and filtered. The filtrate was concentrated and the remainder was purified by reverse phase HPLC C18 column acetonitrile water to give compound 2a as a white solid 4.9 mg y 43 . MS m z . found 966.4 M Na 978.2 M 2HO H . See .

To a solution of compound 3a 830 mg 1.9 mmol in methanol 15 mL was added Pd C 10 204 mg 0.19 mmol . The air in the flask was removed by vacuum and then replaced with hydrogen in a balloon. The mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The mixture was filtered through celite and washed the celite Pd C with dichloromethane and methanol. The filtrate was concentrated and the residue diluted with dichloromethane and evaporated for a few cycles and then was purified by silica gel chromatography dichloromethane methanol to give compound 3b as a light yellowish solid 558 mg y 98 . H NMR 400 Hz CDCl 8.34 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 7.40 s 1H 7.22 dd J 8.0 Hz J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.17 d J 7.2 Hz 1H 7.02 dd J 7.2 Hz J 7.6 Hz 1H 6.16 s 1H 4.37 tt J 10.4 Hz J 7.2 Hz 1H 3.76 s 3H 3.49 3.36 m 3H 2.73 dd J 16.8 Hz J 3.6 Hz 1H C NMR 400 Hz CDCl 167.0 150.4 142.6 141.2 140.8 129.9 127.7 124.8 123.96 117.4 113.7 112.5 104.7 57.3 56.3 54.7 33.0 MS m z . found 295.1 M H . See .

To a solution of the 2 methyldithio isobutyraldehyde 113 mg 0.75 mmol and compound 3b 148 mg 0.5 mmol in anhydrous 1 2 dichloroethane 2 mL was added sodium triacetoxyborohydride 212 mg 1.0 mmol . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 days. During the time another two portions 0.05 mL 0.5 mmol portion of 2 methyldithio isobutyraldehyde along with one portion of sodium triacetoxyborohydride 106 mg 0.5 mmol were added. The reaction was quenched with saturated sodium bicarbonate diluted with dichloromethane and water. The organic layer was washed with brine dried over sodium sulfate and filtered. The filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure and the residue was purified by silica gel chromatography Combiflash 24 g column hexanes ethyl acetate to give compound 3c as a white fluffy solid 92.5 mg y 43 . Unreacted starting material 3b was also recovered 49.3 mg y 33 . H NMR 400 Hz CDCl 8.30 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 7.28 dd J 6.8 Hz J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.25 7.20 m 2H 7.07 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 6.80 s 1H 6.17 s 1H 4.36 4.28 m 1H 3.89 s 3H 3.78 d J 14.4 Hz 1H 3.46 3.34 m 3H 2.90 d J 14.4 Hz 1H 2.73 dd J 16.4 Hz J 2.8 Hz 1H 2.34 s 3H 1.17 s 3H 1.05 s 3H C NMR 400 Hz CDCl 167.2 149.0 142.5 142.2 141.9 129.9 128.0 125.3 124.5 124.1 117.1 112.0 108.5 64.8 61.4 58.1 56.3 53.4 32.0 26.3 25.7 25.4 MS m z . found 453.3 M Na 429.2 M H . See .

To a stirred solution of IBD monomer 125 mg 0.425 mmol and 1 5 diiodopentane 0.63 mL 4.25 mmol in anhydrous dimethylformamide 3 mL was added potassium carbonate 59 mg 0.425 mmol and the mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The reaction solution was diluted with dichloromethane washed with brine and dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate. It was filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography hexanes ethyl acetate to give compound 3d as yellowish foam 94 mg y 45 . H NMR 400 Hz CDCl 8.27 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 7.86 d J 4.8 Hz 1H 7.56 s 1H 7.27 dd J 8.4 Hz J 7.6 Hz 2H 7.10 dd J 7.6 Hz J 7.2 Hz 1H 6.82 s 1H 4.48 dt J 10.8 Hz J 4.4 Hz 1H 4.15 4.07 m 2H 3.96 s 3H 3.70 dd J 16.8 Hz J 10.8 Hz 1H 3.49 dd J 16.8 Hz J 4.0 Hz 1H 3.22 t J 7.2 Hz 2H 1.96 1.87 m 4H 1.64 1.57 m 2H C NMR 400 Hz CDCl 164.0 163.2 151.4 148.3 142.2 140.3 129.6 128.3 124.9 120.5 117.0 112.0 110.6 68.8 56.4 55.1 33.3 32.7 28.0 27.2 6.6 MS m z . found 513.3 M Na 543.2 M 3HO H . See .

To a stirred solution of the starting materials 3c 91 mg 0.21 mmol and 3d 94 mg 0.19 mmol in anhydrous dimethylformamide 1 mL was added potassium carbonate 29 mg 0.21 mmol and the mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The reaction solution was diluted with dichloromethane washed with brine and dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate. It was filtered concentrated and the residue was purified by silica gel chromatography hexanes ethyl acetate to give compound 3e as yellowish foam 89.1 mg y 58 . H NMR 400 Hz CDCl 8.32 8.28 m 2H 7.91 bs 1H 7.57 s 1H 7.36 7.21 m 5H 7.15 7.05 m 2H 6.85 s 1H 6.74 s 1H 4.53 4.48 m 1H 4.37 4.31 m 1H 4.21 4.03 m 4H 3.98 s 3H 3.88 s 3H 3.86 3.70 m 2H 3.55 3.35 m 4H 2.93 d J 4.0 Hz 1H 2.73 dd J 16.4 Hz J 2.4 Hz 1H 2.36 s 3H 2.03 1.96 m 3H 1.77 1.67 m 3H 1.21 s 3H 1.06 s 3H MS m z . found 815.3 M Na . See .

To a stirred solution of compound 3e 33.1 mg 0.042 mmol in acetonitrile 2 mL and methanol 4 mL was added freshly prepared TCEP solution 36 mg of TCEP HCl salt was neutralized with saturated sodium bicarbonate to pH 6.5 then diluted with 0.4 mL of pH 6.5 phosphate buffer at room temperature. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 hours and then diluted with dichloromethane and deionized water separated and the organic layer was washed with brine dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and filtered. The filtrate was concentrated and high vacuumed to give 31 mg of compound 3f as yellowish solid. It was dissolved in anhydrous dichloromethane 0.5 mL SPDB NHS ester 2 26 mg 80 purity 0.063 mmol and diisopropylethylamine 11 l 0.063 mmol were added subsequently. The mixture continued to be stirred at room temperature overnight quenched with saturated ammonium chloride and diluted with dichloromethane separated and washed with brine dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by preparative reverse phase HPLC C18 column acetonitrile water . The fractions containing product were combined extracted with dichloromethane and concentrated to give compound 3g as yellowish solid 15.2 mg y 38 . MS m z . found 984.3 M Na 1014.2 M 3HO H . See .

A stirred solution of compound 4a 111 mg 0.108 mmol in absolute ethanol 720 fit and anhydrous dichloromethane 360 L was cooled to 0 C. in an ice bath. Sodium borohydride 0.817 mg 0.022 mmol in 50 uL absolute ethanol was added at 0 C. The reaction stirred at ambient temperature for two hours. The mixture was cooled to 0 C. in an ice bath quenched with saturated ammonium chloride and extracted with dichloromethane. The organic extracts were washed with brine dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and filtered through Celite. The filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure and the crude material was purified by RP HPLC C18 DI water acetonitrile to yield compound 4b 43 mg 38 . H NMR 400 Hz CDCl 8.26 d 1H J 8.0 Hz 8.18 d 1H J 8.0 Hz 7.77 d 1H J 4.4 Hz 7.51 s 1H 7.41 s 2H 7.17 m 6H 7.03 t 1H J 7.2 Hz 6.96 t 1H J 7.2 Hz 6.76 s 1H 6.04 s 1H 5.13 m 4H 4.38 m 2H 3.90 s 3H 3.81 s 3H 3.79 m 2H 3.63 m 1H 3.51 m 8H 3.43 m 6H 3.25 s 3H 2.73 dd 1H J 3.6 16.4 Hz 2.22 s 3H 2.04 m 2H 1.81 m 2H 1.18 s 6H MS m z found 1051.9 M Na 1069.9 M Na HO . See .

To a stirred solution of compound 4b 40 mg 0.039 mmol in methanol 4.45 mL and acetonitrile 2.225 mL was added TCEP.HCl 39.0 mg 0.136 mmol in sodium phosphate buffer 0.89 mL pH 6.5 . The mixture stirred at ambient temperature for 18 hours. The mixture was diluted with dichloromethane and washed with water and brine. The organic extracts were dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. Purification by RP hPLC C18 DI water acetonitrile and extraction with dichloromethane yielded compound 4c 26.5 mg 64 MS m z found 1006.0 M Na . See .

To a stirred solution of compound 4c 24 mg 0.024 mmol in anhydrous dichloromethane 800 L was added PBA 11.18 mg 0.049 mmol and diisopropylethylamine 20.18 L 0.116 mmol . After stirring for 18 hours at ambient temperature the reaction was diluted with dichloromethane and quenched with saturated ammonium chloride. The layers were separated and the organic was washed with brine dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Purification by PTLC 5 methanol dichloromethane yielded compound 4d 17 mg 63 MS m z found 1123.9 M Na 1139.9 M K 1099.8 M H 117.9 M H HO . See .

To a mixture of compound 4d 15 mg 0.014 mmol and N hydroxy succinimide 4.70 mg 0.041 mmol in anhydrous dichloromethane 1.0 mL was added EDC.HCl 7.83 mg 0.041 mmol . After stirring 18 hours at ambient temperature the reaction was diluted with dichloromethane and quenched with saturated ammonium chloride. The mixture was washed with brine dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude material was purified by RP HPLC C18 DI water acetonitrile . Fractions containing product were pooled and extracted with dichloromethane dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated to give compound 4e 13 mg 80 MS m z found 1220.8 M Na 1238.8 M Na HO 1254.8 M K HO . See .

A mixture of chelidamic acid hydrate 3.0 g 15.56 mmol and sulfuric acid 0.6 mL 11.26 mmol in absolute ethanol 40 mL was refluxed for 20 hours. The reaction was cooled to ambient temperature neutralized with aqueous sodium carbonate and then acidified with concentrated HCl. Water was added and the mixture was extracted with dichloromethane. The extracts were dried with anhydrous magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The crude material was purified by silica gel chromatography 5 methanol dichloromethane to yield diethyl 4 hydroxypyridine 2 6 dicarboxylate 5a 2.5 g 68 as a white solid. See .

A solution of 4 methyl 4 methyldisulfanyl pentan 1 ol 5b 2.0 g 11.09 mmol in anhydrous dichloromethane 55.5 mL was cooled to 0 C. in an ice bath. Triethylamine 5.41 mL 38.8 mmol and toluene sulfonyl chloride 3.17 g 16.64 mmol were added at 0 C. The reaction stirred for three hours at ambient temperature. The mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate and washed with brine. The organic extracts were dried with anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. Purification by silica gel chromatography 5 ethyl acetate hexanes resulted in 4 methyl 4 methyldisulfanyl pentyl 4 methylbenzenesulfonate 5c 1.5g 40 . 5b H NMR 400 Hz CDCl 3.42 m 2H 2.19 s 3H 1.77 bs 1H 1.43 m 4H 1.09 s 6H . 5c H NMR 400 Hz CDCl 7.66 d 2H J 7.6 Hz 7.22 d 2H J 8.0 Hz 3.90 t 2H J 6.4 Hz 2.32 s 3H 2.23 s 3H 1.60 m 2H 1.44 m 2H 1.11 s 6H . See .

To a stirred solution of 4 methyl 4 methyldisulfanyl pentyl 4 methylbenzenesulfonate 5c 0.48 g 1.435 mmol and diethyl 4 hydroxypyridine 2 6 dicarboxylate 5a 0.343 g 1.435 mmol in anhydrous dimethylformamide 6.5 mL was added Potassium carbonate 0.297 g 2.152 mmol . The reaction was stirred at 90 C. for 18 hours. Then allowed to cool to ambient temperature and quenched with saturated ammonium chloride. The mixture was extracted three times with ethyl acetate. The extracts were dried with anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Purification by silica gel chromatography 30 hexanes ethyl acetate yielded diethyl 4 4 methyl 4 methyldisulfanyl pentyloxy pyridine 2 6 dicarboxylate 5d 300 mg 52 H NMR 400 Hz CDCl 7.70 s 2H 4.40 q 4H J 7.2 14.4 Hz 4.07 t 2H J 6. Hz 2.35 s 3H 1.86 m 2H 1.70 m 2H 1.38 t 6H J 7.2 Hz 1.27 s 6H MS m z . found 424.1 M Na 440.1 M K . See .

To a stirred solution of diethyl 4 4 methyl 4 methyldisulfanyl pentyloxy pyridine 2 6 dicarboxylate 5d 270 mg 0.672 mmol in absolute ethanol 7.0 mL was added calcium chloride 224 mg 2.017 mmol and sodium borohydride 76 mg 2.017 mmol . The reaction was allowed to stir at ambient temperature for 90 minutes after which it was quenched with water and concentrated in vacuo to remove the ethanol. The mixture was then extracted twice with dichloromethane. The organic extracts were combined washed with water dried with anhydrous magnesium sulfate and filtered through celite. The filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure and the crude material was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with 10 methanol dichloromethane to yield 4 4 methyl 4 methyldisulfanyl pentyloxy pyridine 2 6 diyl dimethanol 5e 75 mg 35 H NMR 400 Hz CDCl 6.63 s 2H 4.60 s 4H 3.95 t 2H J 6.2 Hz 3.54 bs 2H 2.35 s 3H 1.82 m 2H 1.66 m 2H 1.26 s 6H MS m z . found 340.1 M Na . See .

A stirred solution of 4 4 methyl 4 methyldisulfanyl pentyloxy pyridine 2 6 diyl dimethanol 5e 51 mg 0.161 mmol in anhydrous dichloromethane 1.6 mL was cooled to 5 C. in an acetone ice bath. Triethylamine 0.112 mL 0.803 mmol and methanesulfonyl chloride 0.031 mL 0.402 mmol were added. The mixture was stirred for 60 minutes at 5 C. The reaction was quenched with ice water and extracted with cold ethyl acetate. The organic extracts were washed with ice water dried with anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to give the dimesylate. To a stirred mixture of the dimesylate intermediate 179 mg 0.378 mmol and IBD monomer 256 mg 0.869 mmol in anhydrous dimethylformamide 3.8 mL was added potassium carbonate 261 mg 1.890 mmol and potassium iodide 31.4 mg 0.189 mmol . The reaction was allowed to stir at ambient temperature for 18 hours. The mixture was quenched with water and extracted three times with dichloromethane. The organic extracts were dried with sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The crude material was redissolved in acetonitrile and purified by RP HPLC C18 deionized water acetonitrile . Fractions containing product were combined and extracted with dichloromethane dried with anhydrous magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to yield compound 5f 65 mg 20 H NMR 400 Hz CDCl 8.20 d 2H J 8.0 Hz 7.78 m 2H 7.53 s 2H 7.20 m 4H 7.04 t 2H J 7.4 Hz 6.91 m 2H 6.80 s 2H 5.22 s 4H 4.40 m 2H 3.94 s 6H 3.93 m 2H 3.63 m 2H 3.42 dd 2H J Hz 2.32 s 3H 1.80 m 2H 1.64 m 2H 1.24 s 6H MS m z . found 892.3 M Na 910.3 M Na HO 928.3 M Na 2HO . See .

A solution of compound 5f 74 mg 0.085 mmol in absolute ethanol 600 L and anhydrous dichloromethane 300 L was cooled 0 C. in an ice bath. Sodium borohydride 0.644 mg 0.017 mmol in 50 L absolute ethanol was added at 0 C. The mixture was allowed to stir at ambient temperature for two hours and was then cooled to 0 C. The reaction was quenched with saturated ammonium chloride and extracted with dichloromethane. The organic extracts were washed with brine dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered through Celite and concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude material was redissolved in dimethylformamide and purified by RP HPLC C18 deionized water acetonitrile . Fractions containing compounds 5g and 5h were combined separately and extracted with dichloromethane dried with anhydrous magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated to yield compound 5g 20 mg 27 and compound 5h. 5g H NMR 400 Hz CDCl 8.25 m 1H 8.18 m 1H 7.77 m 1H 7.51 ss 1H 7.40 ss 1H 7.18 m 4H 7.08 m 1H 7.03 m 1H 6.92 m 2H 6.86 ss 1H 5.98 6.06 ss 1H 5.24 m 4H 4.40 m 1H 4.30 m 1H 3.94 s 3H 3.92 m 2H 3.84 s 3H 3.62 m 1H 3.37 m 4H 2.65 m or dd 1H 2.32 ss 3H 1.77 m 2H 1.64 m 2H 1.24 s 6H . 5h H NMR 400 Hz CDCl 8.24 d 2H J 8.0 Hz 7.39 s 2H 7.14 m 4H 6.97 m 2H 6.93 m 2H 6.15 ss 2H 5.25 s 4H 4.37 m or t 2H J 9.8 Hz 4.2 bs 2H 3.94 m 2H 3.83 s 6H 3.40 m 6H 2.72 dd 2H J Hz 2.32 s 3H 1.79 m 2H 1.64 m 2H 1.24 s 6H . See .

To a stirred solution of compound 5g 20 mg 0.023 mmol in methanol 5.25 mL and acetonitrile 1.750 mL was added TCEP.HCl 19.72 mg 0.069 mmol in sodium phosphate buffer 0.7 mL pH 6.5 . The mixture was stirred for 3 hours at ambient temperature and then diluted with dichloromethane and water. The layers were separated and the organic was washed with brine. The crude product was purified by RP HPLC C18 deionized water acetonitrile . Fractions containing product were combined extracted with dichloromethane and evaporated to yield compound 5i 7 mg 37 . MS m z . found 848.3 M Na 866.3 M Na HO 880.3 M Na MeOH . See .

To a stirred solution of compound 5i 7 mg 8.47 mol and 2 5 dioxopyrrolidin 1 yl 4 pyridin 2 yldisulfanyl butanoate 8.64 mg 0.021 mmol in anhydrous dichloromethane 113 L was added diisopropylethylamine 3.69 L 0.021 mmol . After stirring for 18 hours at ambient temperature the reaction was quenched with saturated ammonium chloride solution and extracted with dichloromethane. The organic extracts were washed with brine dried with anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude material was purified by preparative RP HPLC C18 deionized water acetonitrile . Fractions containing product were extracted with dichloromethane filtered and evaporated to yield compound 5j 3 mg 34 . MS m z . found 1063.3 M Na 1081.3 M Na HO . See .

Compound 1g was pre treated with 3 molar equivalents of sodium bisulfite using a freshly prepared NaHSOsolution in water in 96 98 DMA in water for 4 5 hrs at 25 C. For conjugation the humanized antibody at 2 mg mL was reacted with 5 7 molar equivalents of compound 1g pre treated with NaHSO for 6 h at 25 C. in 85 90 PBS pH 7.4 aqueous buffer or 50 mM HEPES pH 8.5 aqueous buffer containing 10 15 N N dimethylacetamide DMA and then purified over a G25 gel filtration column in PBS pH 7.4 to remove unreacted or hydrolyzed drug compound. The humanized antibody SPDB drug conjugates were dialyzed in 10 mM Histidine 250 mM Glycine 1 sucrose pH 6.5 buffer. The Drug Antibody Ratio DAR of the conjugates were measured to be 2.2 2.9 by UV absorbance measurements at 280 and 320 nm and using the extinction coefficients of the drug and antibody at 280 nm 215 000 Mcm and 320 nm 9137 Mcm . The percentage of monomer in the conjugates were determined as 90 by SEC Size Exclusion Chromatography using TSK Gel G300SWXL column 7.8 mm 300 mm 5 m particle size . Based on the UV absorbance of the monomer peak in SEC it was also demonstrated that the monomer conjugate peaks had linked drug molecules. For free unconjugated drug assay the conjugate was acetone extracted to remove protein dried and reconstituted in mobile phase and injected onto a VYDAC 208TP C8 reverse phase HPLC column 4.6 250 mm 7 m particle size and compared to standards. The percentage of free drug compound in the conjugate was determined as 

Humanized Ab at 8 mg mL was derivatized with 4 6 molar equivalents of SPDB hetrobifunctional linker for 1.5 h at 25 C. in 95 PBS PH 7.4 containing 5 DMA v v and then purified over a G25 desalting column into citrate buffer 35 mM citrate buffer pH 5.5 containing 2 mM EDTA 150 mM NaCl to remove unreacted linker. The LAR Linker Antibody Ratio were measured using UV absorbance at 280 and 343 nm without and with 50 mM dithiothreitol addition to measure total antibody and dithiothreitol released SPy and were determined to be 2.7 4.1 LAR. The SPDB modified antibody at 2 mg mL was reacted with 2 molar equivalents of compound 2a HCl salt per linked SPDB for 20 h at ambient temperature in 85 citrate buffer 15 DMA v v and then purified over a G25 desalting column into PBS pH 7.4 to remove unconjugated drug compound. The DAR of the final humanized Ab SPDB 2a conjugate was measured by UV spectrophotometry at 280 and 350 nm and calculated to be 1.7 2.1 DAR. The percentage of monomer and linked drug compound on the monomer in the conjugate was determined by HPLC using an SEC size exclusion chromatography column See .

General Procedure Used Samples of unconjugated free drug compounds or drug conjugates were added to 96 well flat bottomed tissue culture plates and titrated using serial dilutions to cover the desired molar range. Antigen positive Ag or Antigen negative Ag cells were added to the wells in specific cell densities in such a way that there were triplicate samples for each drug concentration for each corresponding cell line. The plates were then incubated at 37 C. in an atmosphere of 5 COfor 4 5 days depending on the cell line. COLO 205 1 000 cells well Namalwa 3 000 cells well HEL 92.1.7 3 000 cells well 4 days RH30 1 000 cells well HL60 QC 5 000 cells well Ramos 10 000 cells well KB 2 000 cells well BJAB 2 000 cells well NB4 3 000 cells well 5 days RPMI 8226 8 000 cells well 6 days.

At the end of the incubation period cytotoxic potencies were then assessed using a WST 8 based cell viability assay and surviving cells were measured by developing with WST 8 2 7 hours . The absorbance in each well was measured and the surviving fraction of cells at each concentration was plotted to reveal the cytotoxicity and or antigen specificity of the conjugates .

Using the general procedure described above the cytotoxicity of the unconjugated free drug compounds was measured against seven cell lines KB a HeLa cell contaminant HL60 QC an acute myeloid leukemia cell line Namalwa a Burkitt lymphoma cell line NB4 an acute promyelocytic leukemia cell line HEL92.1.7 an erythroleukemia cell line RPMI8226 a multiple myeloma cell line and BJAB a B cell leukemia cell line. The results shown in and Table 10 demonstrate the high potency of these compounds across a wide range of cell types. The potency and specificity of the antibody drug conjugates were measured against antigen expressing cells with and without the additions of an excess amount of blocking unconjugated antibody to show specificity of the killing effect. The MY9 6 drug conjugate was extremely potent towards three different antigen expressing cells HL60 ATCC HL60 QC and NB 4 despite the very low antigen expression in NB4 cells. The specific potency could be blocked by addition of excess unconjugated antibody demonstrating that the cell killing effect is antigen specific. Similarly the huFOLR1 drug conjugate was effective in killing antigen expressing KB cells in a specific manner. Results are illustrated in .

Similar results have also been obtained using different cell lines and different conjugates of the invention including huMY9 6 SPDB 1f against HL60 QC Ag cells HL60 ATCC Ag cells and NB 4 Ag cells huFOLR1 SPDB 1f against KB Ag cells huMY9 6 SPDB 1f against antigen positive HL60 QC cells HL60 ATCC cells NB 4 cells and HEL 92.1.7 cells huMy9 6 SPDB 1f huMy9 6 sulfoSPDB 1f and huMy9 6 BMPS 1f against HL60 QC Ag cells chB38.1 SPDB 1f and chB38.1 sulfoSPDB 1f against COL0205 Ag cells huMy9 6 SPDB 1f huMy9 6 sulfoSPDB 1f and huMy9 6 BMPS 1f against OCI AML3 Ag cells . Also see for the potency of the various conjugates against various cell lines expressed as ICvalues nM . Note that in conjugates were prepared in the presence of sodium bisulfite.

To compare in vitro potency measurements for the subject conjugates prepared with and without imine reactive reagent such as sodium bisulfite huMy9 6 BMPS 1f huMy9 6 sulfo SPDB 1f and huMy9 6 Drug 2 were prepared with and without sodium bisulfite using the in situ sulfonation method wherein the respective compounds of the invention was first mixed with sodium bisulfite and a bifunctional crosslinker bearing a reactive group then the reaction mixture without further purification was reacted with the huMy9 6 monoclonal antibody as the cell binding agent . ICs for the conjugates on HL60 QC cells are shown below. The data indicates that the inclusion of imine reactive group such as sodium bisulfite in the conjugate preparation step does not negatively impact the in vitro potency of the subject conjugates.

It is apparent that pre treatment of the drug compounds with sodium bisulfite 5 molar equivalents 22 h 4 C. 90 10 DMA pH 5.5 water prior to conjugation with huMy9 6 had no significant effect on the antigen dependent or antigen independent antigen blocking with 1 M unconjugated huMy9 6 in vitro potency of the conjugates.

The binding of huMY9 6 drug conjugate was compared with that of the unmodified huMY9 6 antibody against antigen expressing HL60 QC cells using flow cytometry. Briefly the antigen positive cells were incubated with conjugates or unmodified antibodies at 4 C. then with a secondary antibody FITC conjugate at 4 C. fixed with formaldehyde 1 in PBS and analyzed by flow cytometry. No significant difference was observed between the binding of the conjugate versus that of the unmodified antibody. An example is shown in where a huMY9 6 drug conjugate bound to antigen positive cells with a high affinity similar to that of the unmodified antibody.

In this study the anti tumor activity of huMY9 6 SPDB 1f was investigated in female nude mice bearing HL60 QC tumors a human acute myeloid leukemia model. HL60 QC tumor cells 2 10cells mouse were subcutaneously inoculated at a volume of 0.1 mL mouse in the area over the right shoulder of female athymic nude mice 5 weeks of age. Eight days after tumor cell inoculation mice were randomized into groups n 6 per group by tumor volume. Treatment was initiated the day of randomization and groups included a control group dosed with PBS 200 L injection or a single treatment at various doses 5 to 100 g kg of huMY9 6 SPDB 1f 50 g kg if dose corresponded to 2.5 mg kg antibody dose . All treatments were well tolerated with the mean body weight losses comparable to loss seen in PBS control mice. Mean tumor volume vs time is shown with the data demonstrating a dose dependent anti tumor activity of the huMY9 6 SPDB 1f conjugate. The minimum effective dose was estimated to be 20 g kg which is about 35 fold lower that the maximum tolerated dose.

The tolerability of huFOLR 1 conjugates was investigated in female CD 1 mice. Animals were observed for seven days prior to study initiation and found to be free of disease or illness. The mice were administered a single i.v. injection of the conjugate and the animals were monitored daily for body weight loss morbidity or mortality. Table 9 shows that for huFOLR1 drug1 the conjugate was tolerated at only the lowest dose tested of 50 g kg. In contrast both mono imine conjugates huFOLR1 Drug 2 and huFOLR1 SPDB 1f were found to be better tolerated with a maximum tolerated dose of 560 g kg respectively.

To a stirred solution of 1f 18 mg 0.019 mmol and N maleimidopropyloxy succinimide BMPS ester 9.2 mg 0.034 mmol in anhydrous dichloromethane 0.3 mL was added anhydrous diisopropylethylamine 5 L 0.029 mmol . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 27 hours quenched with saturated ammonium chloride and diluted with dichloromethane. The organic layer was washed with brine dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by preparative reverse phase HPLC C18 column CHCN HO . The fractions containing product were combined extracted with dichloromethane and evaporated to give compound 10 as a white solid 7.6 mg y 33 . MS m z . found 1208.3 M H . See .

To a stirred solution of if 16.5 mg 0.018 mmol and sulfo SPDB 14.2 mg 0.036 mmol in anhydrous dichloromethane 0.3 mL was added anhydrous diisopropylethylamine 9 L 0.054 mmol . The mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by preparative reverse phase HPLC C18 column CHCN HO . The fractions containing product were combined extracted with dichloromethane and evaporated to give 6.6 mg of compound 12 as yellowish foam. The aqueous layer was lyophilized to give another 0.5 mg of compound 12 as white solid. MS m z . found 1235.0 M H . See .

A reaction containing 2.5 mg mL huMy9 6 antibody and 10 molar equivalents of 10 pretreated with 5 fold excess of sodium bisulfite in 90 10 DMA water in 50 mM HEPES 4 2 hydroxyethyl 1 piperazine ethanesulfonic acid pH 8.5 buffer and 15 v v DMA N N dimethylacetamide cosolvent was allowed to conjugate for 6 hours at 25 C. Post reaction the conjugate was purified and buffer exchanged into 250 mM Glycine 10 mM Histidine 1 sucrose 0.01 Tween 50 M sodium bisulfite formulation buffer using NAP desalting columns Illustra Sephadex G 25 DNA Grade GE Healthcare . Dialysis was performed in the same buffer for 4 hours at room temperature utilizing Slide a Lyzer dialysis cassettes ThermoScientific 20 000 MWCO . The purified conjugate was found to have a DAR of 2.4 by UV Vis using molar extinction coefficients 15 484 cmMand 30 115 cmMfor 1f and 146 000 cmMfor My9 6 antibody 96.7 monomer by size exclusion chromatography 

In vitro potency of antibody sulfoSPDB 1f conjugates were measured according to general procedure described in Example 7 and the data are shown in . The antibody sulfoSPDB 1f conjugates have comparable or higher potency than the antibody SPDB 1f conjugates.

Use of covalent imine reactants such as sodium bisulfite improves Ab compound conjugate specifications e.g. monomer and drug load . In one experiment adduct formation was carried out with 5 molar equivalents of imine reactant over NHS BMPS 1f in 90 DMSO 10 PBS pH 7.4 for 4 h at 25 C. The reaction mixture was then added to huMy9 6 antibody 4 molar equivalents IGN 2 mg ml 10 v v DMSO 50 mM HEPES buffer pH 8.5 5 h 25 C. . Conjugates made using sodium hydrosulfite sodium bisulfite or sodium metabisulfite had similar IGN Ab ratios and monomer while conjugates made with no additive treatment led to very low drug incorporation. See table below.

A reaction containing 2.0 mg mL huMy9 6 antibody and 5 molar equivalents of 12 pretreated with 5 fold excess of sodium bisulfite in 90 10 DMA water in 50 mM HEPES 4 2 hydroxyethyl 1 piperazine ethanesulfonic acid pH 8.5 buffer and 15 v v DMA N N dimethylacetamide cosolvent was allowed to react for 6 hours at 25 C. Post reaction the conjugate was purified and buffer exchanged into 250 mM Glycine 10 mM Histidine 1 sucrose 0.01 Tween 50 M sodium bisulfite formulation buffer using NAP desalting columns Illustra Sephadex G 25 DNA Grade GE Healthcare . Dialysis was performed in the same buffer for 4 hours at room temperature utilizing Slide a Lyzer dialysis cassettes ThermoScientific 20 000 MWCO . The purified conjugate was found to have a DAR of 2.8 by UV Vis using molar extinction coefficients 15 484 cmMand 30 115 cmMfor 1f and 146 000 cmMfor My9 6 antibody 91.7 monomer by size exclusion chromatography 

In vitro potency of antibody BMPS 1f conjugates were measured according to general procedure described in Example 7 and the data are shown in . The antibody BMPS 1f conjugates have comparable potency to the antibody SPDB 1f conjugates.

In this study the anti tumor activity of hu FOLR1 SPDB 1f was investigated in female nude mice bearing KB tumors a human cervical carcinoma model. KB 1 10cells mouse were subcutaneously inoculated at a volume of 0.1 mL mouse in the area over the right shoulder of female athymic nude mice 6 weeks of age. Six days after tumor cell inoculation mice were randomized into groups n 6 per group by tumor volume. Treatment was initiated the day after randomization and groups included a control group dosed with PBS 200 L injection or a single treatment at various doses 20 to 200 g kg of hu FOLR1 SPDB 1f 50 g kg linked drug dose corresponded to 2.8 mg kg antibody dose . All treatments were well tolerated with no body weight loss seen in any of the test groups. Mean tumor volume vs time is shown with the data demonstrating a dose dependent anti tumor activity of the hu FOLR1 SPDB 1f conjugate. The minimum effective dose was estimated to be 

Similar in vivo results have also been obtained using other conjugates of the invention against various other cancer models including huMy9 6 sulfo SPDB 1f in MOLM 13 tumor bearing mice huMy9 6 sulfo SPDB 1f in NB4 tumor bearing mice huMy9 6 BMPS 1f in HL60 QC tumor bearing mice huMy9 6 BMPS 1f in MOLM 13 tumor bearing mice huMy9 6 Drug 2 in HL60 QC tumor bearing mice and huMy9 6 Drug 2 in MOLM 13 tumor bearing mice . Note that in conjugates were prepared in the presence of sodium bisulfite.

To compare in vivo efficacy of the subject conjugates prepared with or without an imine reactive group huMy9 6 Drug 2 were formulated with or without 50 M sodium bisulfite and the conjugates were used to treat mice bearing HL60 QC tumor xenografts. The data below shows that conjugate formulated with or without 50 M sodium bisulfite showed comparable T C at 20 g kg drug dose indicating that the inclusion of sodium bisulfite in the conjugate preparation step does not negatively impact the in vivo potency of the subject conjugate.

 5 2 mercapto 2 methylpropylthio methyl 1 3 phenylene dimethanol 5 mercaptomethyl 1 3 phenylene dimethanol 0.163 g 0.885 mmol was dissolved in methanol 3 mL in a small vial and a stir bar was added. To this solution was added triethylamine 0.016 mL 0.118 mmol followed by 2 2 dimethylthiirane 0.058 mL 0.590 mmol and the resulting mixture was capped and stirred overnight 16 hrs at room temperature. The reaction was then concentrated redissolved in dichloromethane loaded onto a silica ptlc plate 1000 micron and the plate was developed using 10 methanol in dichloromethane. The band corresponding to the product was scraped filtered with neat ethyl acetate and concentrated to give 5 2 mercapto 2 methylpropylthio methyl 1 3 phenylene dimethanol 0.095 g 0.349 mmol 59.1 yield . H NMR 400 Hz CDCl 7.26 s 3H 4.69 s 4H 3.82 s 2H 2.74 s 2H 2.17 s 1H 2.12 br s 2H 1.43 s 6H C NMR 400 Hz CDCl 141.6 138.9 126.7 124.3 65.0 49.0 45.4 38.4 31.5 MS m z expected 272.4. found 295.0 M Na . See .

 5 2 methyl 2 methyldisulfanyl propylthio methyl 1 3 phenylene dimethanol 5 2 mercapto 2 methylpropylthio methyl 1 3 phenylene dimethanol 0.120 g 0.440 mmol was dissolved in ethanol 5 mL and 1.0 M potassium phosphate buffer pH 7 5.00 mL and cooled in an ice bath a ppt formed but it was ignored . S methyl methanesulfonothioate 0.083 mL 0.881 mmol was added and the mixture stirred overnight with gradual over 30 minutes warming to room temperature. The reaction was diluted with dichloromethane and the organic layer was removed washed with water dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was dissolved in dichloromethane and loaded onto a 500 micron ptlc plate and developed with 66 ethyl acetate in hexane. The band corresponding to the product was scraped filtered using ethyl acetate and concentrated to give 5 2 methyl 2 methyldisulfanyl propylthio methyl 1 3 phenylene dimethanol 0.091 g 0.286 mmol 64.9 yield . H NMR 400 Hz CDCl 7.27 s 3H 4.71 s 4H 3.78 s 2H 2.77 s 2H 2.41 s 3H 1.94 br s 2H 1.38 s 6H C NMR 400 Hz CDCl 141.6 139.0 126.7 124.2 65.0 51.8 44.0 38.2 26.7 25.3 MS m z expected 341.5. found 341.1 M Na . See .

 5 2 methyl 2 methyldisulfanyl propylthio methyl 1 3 phenylene dimethanol 80 mg 0.251 mmol in anhydrous dichloromethane 1.75 mL was cooled to 5 C. in a brine ice bath. Triethylamine 105 L 0.753 mmol was added followed by the addition of methanesulfonyl chloride 50.7 L 0.653 mmol at 5 C. The reaction was stirred at 5 C. for one hour after which it was diluted with cold ethyl acetate and ice was added. The mixture was transferred to a separatory funnel and extracted with cold ethyl acetate. The organic extracts were washed with ice water and then dried with anhydrous magnesium and sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The resulting 5 2 methyl 2 methyldisulfanyl propylthio methyl 1 3 phenylene bis methylene dimethanesulfonate was used without further purification.

IBD monomer 177 mg 0.602 mmol in anhydrous N N dimethylformamide 1.75 mL was added to 5 2 methyl 2 methyldisulfanyl propylthio methyl 1 3 phenylene bis methylene dimethanesulfonate 119 mg 0.251 mmol at ambient temperature. Potassium carbonate 173 mg 1.253 mmol was added and the reaction was allowed to stir at ambient temperature for 20 hours. The reaction mixture was quenched with water and extracted with dichloromethane. The extracts were washed with brine and then dried with anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated on high vacuum. The crude product was purified by flash silica gel chromatography neat DCM 4.2 MeOH DCM . Fractions containing product were combined concentrated and purified by semi prep RP HPLC C18 A DI water B ACN 20 mL min Fractions containing desired product were combined extracted with dichloromethane dried with anhydrous magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated to yield the desired product 46 mg 21 . H NMR 400 Hz CDCl 8.19 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.77 m d J 4.4 Hz 2H 7.50 s 2H 7.34 s 1H 7.31 s 2H 7.19 m 4H 7.03 t J 7.2 7.6 Hz 2H 6.77 s 2H 5.14 m 4H 4.40 m 2H 3.91 s 6H 3.70 m 2H 3.63 m 2H 3.41 m 2H 2.65 s 2H 2.29 s 3H 1.26 s 6H . MS m z Calcd. 893.2 M Na . found 893.2 M Na 911.2 M HO Na 929.2 M 2HO Na 945.1 M 2HO K . See .

To a cooled solution 0 C. of 27d 50 mg 0.057 mmol in anhydrous dichloromethane 225 L and ethanol 450 L was added sodium borohydride 0.651 mg 0.017 mmol . The reaction was stirred for five minutes at 0 C. and then at ambient temperature for 2.5 hrs. The reaction mixture was cooled to 0 C. quenched with saturated ammonium chloride and extracted with dichloromethane. The organic extracts were washed with brine dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered through Celite and concentrated. The crude material was purified by semi prep RP HPLC C18 A DI water B ACN 20 mL min Fractions containing desired product were combined extracted with dichloromethane dried with anhydrous magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated to yield the mono reduced amine 27e 11 mg 22 MS m z Calcd. 895.3 M Na found 895.2 M Na 913.2 M HO Na 929.2 M HO K and the di reduced amine 27f 5 mg 10 MS m z Calcd. 897.3 M Na . found 897.3 M Na . See .

To a stirred solution of 27e 10 mg 0.011 mmol in methanol 733 L and acetonitrile 880 L was added tris 2 Carboxyethyl phosphine hydrochloride 9.85 mg 0.034 mmol in buffer 6.5 147 L . The mixture stirred at 3 hours at ambient temperature. The reaction was diluted with dichloromethane. Water was added and the layers were separated. The organic layer was washed with brine dried with anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to give compound 27g 9 mg 95 . MS m z Calcd. 849.3 M Na . found 849.2 M Na 867.2 M K . See .

To a stirred solution of 27g 9 mg 10.88 mol and 2 5 dioxopyrrolidin 1 yl 4 pyridin 2 yldisulfanyl butanoate 9.3 mg 0.023 mmol in anhydrous dichloromethane 0.4 mL was added anhydrous diisopropylethylamine 9 l 0.054 mmol and the reaction was stirred at room temperature overnight. The mixture was quenched with saturated ammonium chloride solution and extracted with dichloromethane. The extracts were washed with brine dried with anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by preparative reverse phase HPLC C18 column CHCN HO . The fractions containing product were combined extracted with dichloromethane and evaporated to give compound 27h 5 mg 44 . MS m z Calcd. 1064.3 M Na . found 1064.1 M Na 1082.1 M HO Na 1098.1 M HO K . See .

 5 methyl 2 methyl 2 methyldisulfanyl propyl amino 1 3 phenylene dimethanol 52 mg 0.172 mmol was dissolved in anhydrous dichloromethane 1.7 mL and cooled to 5 in an acetone ice bath. First triethylamine 0.120 mL 0.862 mmol was added followed by methanesulfonyl chloride 0.040 mL 0.517 mmol . The mixture was stirred in the bath for 1 hour. The reaction was then diluted with cold ethyl acetate and washed with cold water three times and then dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate. The dimesylate was filtered concentrated in vacuo and placed under high vacuum until completely dry. The product was used as is directly in the next step.

IBD monomer 115 mg 0.39 mmol in anhydrous N N dimethylformamide 1.5 mL was added to 5 methyl 2 methyl 2 methyldisulfanyl propyl amino 1 3 phenylene bis methylene dimethanesulfonate 72 mg 0.156 mmol at ambient temperature. Potassium carbonate 108 mg 0.780 mmol was added and the reaction was allowed to stir at ambient temperature for 20 hours. Water 10 mL was added directly to the mixture with stirring resulting in the formation of a white precipitate. The mixture was filtered and the solids were washed with additional portions of water. The solid was then dissolved in dichloromethane extracted with water the organic layer was then dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo to give compound 28b 104 mg 78 which was used in the next step without further treatment. MS m z . found 912.1 M 2HO Na . See .

Compound 28b 55 mg 0.064 mmol was dissolved in an anhydrous mixture of dichloromethane 0.4 mL and ethanol 0.8 mL and cooled to 0 C. in an ice bath. A sodium borohydride 0.731 mg 0.019 mmol solution dissolved in ethanol 100 l was then added and the mixture was stirred for 5 minutes and the ice bath was removed. The reaction was allowed to stir for 2 hours quenched at low temperature by adding saturated ammonium chloride and dichloromethane separated and the organic layer was washed with brine dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by semi prep RP HPLC C18 A DI water B ACN 20 mL min The fractions containing the desired products were extracted with dichloromethane and concentrated to give the mono imine 28c 19 mg 32 MS m z expected 855.1. found 896.2 M HO Na and the di reduced amine 28d 22 mg 38 MS m z expected 857.1. found 880.2 M Na . See .

Compound 29a 60 mg 0.043 mmol was dissolved in an anhydrous mixture of dichloromethane 0.25 mL and ethanol 0.5 mL and cooled to 0 C. in an ice bath. A sodium borohydride 0.493 mg 0.013 mmol solution dissolved in ethanol 50 L was then added and the mixture was stirred for 5 minutes and the ice bath was removed. The reaction was allowed to stir for 3 hours quenched at low temperature by adding saturated ammonium chloride and dichloromethane separated and the organic layer was washed with brine dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by semi prep RP HPLC C18 A DI water B ACN 20 mL min The fractions containing the desired products were extracted with dichloromethane and concentrated to give the mono imine 29b 20 mg 33 MS m z expected 715.7. found 715.2 M Na 733.2 M HO Na 749.2 M HO K and the di reduced amine 29c 12 mg 20 MS m z expected 694.7. found 717.2 M Na . See .

 5 2 2 2 methoxyethoxy ethoxy ethyl 2 methyl 2 methyldisulfanyl propyl amino 1 3 phenylene bis methylene dimethanesulfonate 0.566 g 0.960 mmol was dissolved in acetone 30 mL and a solution of sodium iodide 0.544 g 3.63 mmol dissolved in acetone 2 mL was added with vigorous stirring. The reaction was monitored by tlc 50 ethyl acetate in hexane and after 2 hours the reaction was filtered concentrated in vacuo and dichloromethane was added to the residue. The solid salt left behind was filtered the filtrate was concentrated and the resulting residue was purified on silica gel using a 3 5 2 mixture of ethyl acetate hexane dichloromethane to give 3 5 bis iodomethyl N 2 2 2 methoxyethoxy ethoxy ethyl N 2 methyl 2 methyldisulfanyl propyl aniline 0.505 g 0.773 mmol 74.5 yield as a yellow oil. H NMR 400 Hz CDCl 6.75 s 2H 6.73 s 1H 4.38 s 4H 3.63 m 14H 3.40 s 3H 2.50 s 3H 1.38 s 6H C NMR 400 Hz CDCl 148.7 140.3 117.3 113.4 71.9 70.7 70.6 67.2 59.8 59.1 53.5 53.4 51.8 26.5 25.6 6.11 MS m z Calcd 676.0 M Na . found 675.8 M Na . See .

IBD Monomer 0.060 g 0.204 mmol was dissolved in acetone 4 ml in a small vial a stir bar was added followed by 3 5 bis iodomethyl N 2 2 2 methoxyethoxy ethoxy ethyl N 2 methyl 2 methyldisulfanyl propyl aniline 0.167 g 0.255 mmol and potassium carbonate 0.070 g 0.510 mmol . The vial was capped and stirred at room temperature overnight. The solids were filtered off and the filtrate was concentrated. The residue was dissolved in dichloromethane extracted with water and the organic layer was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo to give 108 mg of crude material. The crude material was purified on silica gel using 30 ethyl acetate to remove the di iodo starting material followed by 10 methanol in dichloromethane to give the desired product 30b 21 mg 0.026 mmol 13 . MS m z expected 819.1. found 858.0 M K 890.0 M CHOH K . See .

The reduced monomer 3b 4.16 mg 0.014 mmol was dissolved in acetone 2 ml in a small vial a stir bar was added followed by 30b 10 mg 0.012 mmol and potassium carbonate 4.21 mg 0.030 mmol . The vial was capped and stirred at room temperature overnight. The reaction was concentrated to remove the acetone and then redissolved in dichloromethane extracted with water dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concenrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by reverse phase C18 HPLC to get 1d 2.1 mg 2.125 mol 17.42 yield . MS m z . found 1010.4 M Na 1028.4 M HO Na . See .

To a stirred suspension of if 226 mg 0.24 mmol in IPA 20 mL and deionized water 10 mL was added sodium bisulphite 50 mg 0.48 mmol . The mixture was stirred vigorously at rt for 2 hours. It was frozen with dry ice aceton and lyophilized. The obtained white fluffy solid was dissolved in CHCN HO and purified by reverse phase HPLC C18 column CHCN HO . The fractions containing the desired product were combined and frozen with dry ice acetone and lyophilized to give the desired compound 1 as white fluffy solid 179.6 mg 5 71.6 . MS m z . found 1022.0 M H . See .

To a stirred solution of 1c 60 mg 0.061 mmol in CHCN 3 mL was added freshly prepared TCEP solution 49 mg 0.17 mmol of TCEP HCl salt was neutralized with saturated sodium bicarbonate to pH 6.5 then diluted with 0.5 mL of pH 6.5 phosphate buffer at room temperature. MeOH 2.5 mL was added and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 hours. The reaction mixture was diluted with dichloromethane and deionized water separated and the organic layer was washed with brine dried over anhydrous NaSOand filtered. The filtrate was stripped and high vacuumed to give 60 mg of 1h as light yellowish foam. MS m z . found 940.1 M H . It was dissolved in methanol 1.0 mL and CHCN 1.4 mL followed by addition of iodoacetic acid 24 mg 0.13 mmol deionized water 0.1 mL and potassium carbonate 27 mg 0.19 mmol . The mixture was stirred at rt overnight monitored by LCMS . It was quenched with saturated ammonium chloride to make the solution acidic then diluted with dichloromethane separated and washed with brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and stripped to give compound 9c 57.8 mg y 91 which was directly used for next step without purification. MS m z . found 998.1 M H . See .

To a stirred solution of compound 9c 57.8 mg 0.058 mmol in anhydrous dichloromethane 0.2 mL and absolute ethanol 0.6 mL was added NaBH 2.5 mg 0.066 mmol at 0 C. The ice bath was removed and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 hours and then quenched with saturated ammonium chloride diluted with dichloromethane separated and the organic layer was washed with brine dried over anhydrous NaSOand filtered through celite and stripped. The residue was purified by reverse phase HPLC C18 column CHCN HO . The product fractions were extracted with dichloromethane and stripped to give compound 9a 13.0 mg y 22 . MS m z . found 1000.0 M H 1015.9 M HO H . See .

To a solution of the free thiol if 45 mg 0.048 mmol and iodoacetic acid 18 mg 0.096 mmol in methanol 1.0 mL and CHCN 1.4 mL was added deionized water 0.1 mL and potassium carbonate 20 mg 0.14 mmol . The mixture was stirred at rt overnight monitored by LCMS . It was quenched with saturated ammonium chloride to make the solution acidic then diluted with dichloromethane separated and washed with brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and stripped. The residue was purified by preparative reverse phase HPLC C18 CHCN HO . The pure product fractions based on MS were extracted with dichloromethane stripped to give the desired acid 9a 18 mg y 38 . MS m z . found 1000.1 M H . See .

To a stirred solution of compound 1c 178 mg 0.18 mmol in anhydrous dichloromethane 1.2 mL and absolute ethanol or anhydrous methanol 0.1 mL was added 5 ethyl 2 methylpyridine borane PEMB 0.017 mL 0.11 mmol dropwise. The mixture was stirred at rt for 1 hour and quenched with 88 formic acid. It was basified with saturated NaHCOand diluted with dichloromethane separated and the organic layer was washed with brine dried over anhydrous NaSOand filtered through celite and stripped. The residue was dissolved in CHCN HO 88 HCOOH 5 1 0.05 and purified by reverse phase HPLC C18 CHCN HO . The fractions that contained pure product were extracted with dichloromethane and stripped to give compound 1d 56 mg y 31 . MS m z . found 988.1 M H . See .

To a stirred solution of compound 1c 71 mg 0.072 mmol in anhydrous 1 2 dichloroethane 0.8 mL was added sodium triacetoxyborohydride 14 mg 0.65 mmol . The mixture was stirred at rt for 2 hours and quenched with saturated NaHCOand diluted with dichloromethane separated and the organic layer was washed with brine dried over anhydrous NaSOand filtered through celite and stripped. The residue was dissolved in CHCN HO 88 HCOOH 5 1 0.05 and purified by reverse phase HPLC C18 CHCN HO . The fractions that contained pure product were extracted with dichlormethane and stripped to give compound 1d 17 mg y 24 . MS m z . found 988.1 M H . Unreacted starting material 1c was also recovered 24 mg y 34 . See .

To a solution of compound 1f 57.8 mg 0.061 mmol and methyl 4 bromobutyrate 22 mg 0.12 mmol in methanol 1.0 mL and CHCN 1.0 mL was added deionized water 0.1 mL and potassium carbonate 17 mg 0.12 mmol . The mixture was stirred at rt overnight then quenched with saturated ammonium chloride and diluted with dichloromethane separated and washed with brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and stripped. The residue was purified by preparative reverse phase HPLC C18 CHCN HO to give the desired product 31a 14 mg y 22 as yellowish foam. MS m z . found 1042.1 M H . See .

To a solution of the methyl ester 31a 14 mg 0.013 mmol in anhydrous 1 2 dichloroethane 1.5 mL was added trimethyltin hydroxide 36 mg 0.2 mmol . The mixture was stirred overnight in a 80 C. oil bath until starting material was completely consumed. It was cooled to room temperature diluted with dichloromethane washed with brine drops 5 HCl and brine dried and filtered. The filtrate was stripped and purified with silica gel chromatography dichloromethane MeOH to give acid 31b as yellowish solid 10.2 mg y 74 . MS m z . found 1028.2 M H 1044.1 M HO H . See .

To a solution of acid 31b 10.2 mg 0.0099 mmol in anhydrous dichloromethane 0.5 mL was added N hydoxysuccinimide 3.4 mg 0.03 mmol and PL DCC 26 mg 0.04 mmol 1.55 mmol g . The mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight and filtered to remove the resin. The resin was washed with dichloromethane then ethyl acetate. The filtrate was stripped and the residue was purified by reverse phase HPLC C18 CHCN HO . The fractions containing product were combined and lyophilized to give NHS ester 31c as white solid 3.6 mg y 32 . MS m z . found 1125.1 M H . See .

To a stirred solution of the aniline 1a 339 mg 1.1 mmol in anhydrous tetrahydrofuran 4.0 mL was added Boc anhydride 272 mg 1.2 mmol . The mixture was continued to be stirred at room temperature for three days. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and the residue was purified by silica gel chromatography CHCl MeOH to give compound 32a 405 mg y 90 as colorless oil. H NMR 400 Hz CDCl 7.00 s 2H 6.97 s 1H 4.38 s 4H 4.12 s 2h 3.64 t J 5.6 Hz 2H 3.48 3.44 m 8H 3.40 3.38 m 2H 3.21 s 3H 1.31 s 9H C NMR 400 Hz CDCl 154.65 142.3 142.1 124.1 122.7 80.2 71.6 70.3 70.1 69.9 68.5 63.9 58.65 49.4 28.1. See .

To a stirred solution of compound 32a 51 mg 0.128 mmol in anhydrous dichloromethane was added triethylamine 0.053 mL 0.383 mmol at 5 10 C. Methansulfonyl chloride 0.026 mL 0.332 mmol was then added slowly in 15 minutes with a syringe. The mixture was stirred at 5 10 C. for 1 hours TLC DCM MeOH 10 1 . The reaction was quenched with ice water diluted with cold AcOEt separated and the organic layer was washed with cold water dried over anhydrous NaSO MgSO filtered and stripped. The residue was transferred into a small reaction flask with dichloromethane stripped and high vacuumed. It was dissolved in anhydrous DMF 0.8 mL followed by addition of IBD monomer 90 mg 0.31 mmol and potassium 53 mg 0.38 mmol . The mixture was stirred at rt overnight. It was diluted with dichloromethane washed with brine dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and stripped. The residue was purified by reverse phase HPLC C18 CHCN HO to give compound 32b 56 mg 46 as yellowish solid. . H NMR 400 Hz CDCl 8.29 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.87 d J 4.8 Hz 2H 7.60 s 2H 7.38 7.36 m 3H 7.33 7.27 m 4H 7.13 t J 7.6 Hz 2H 6.88 s 2H 5.21 dd J 20.0 Hz J 12.4 Hz 4H 4.49 dt J 11.2 Hz J 4.0 Hz 2H 3.99 s 6H 3.83 t J 6.0 Hz 2H 3.76 3.48 m 14H 3.35 s 3H 1.43 s 9H MS m z . found 992.2 M HO Na 1010.2 M 2HO Na . See .

To a stirred solution of compound 32b 56 mg 0.059 mmol in anhydrous dichloromethane 0.3 mL and absolute ethanol 0.9 mL was added NaBH 2.7 mg 0.07 mmol at 0 C. The ice bath was removed and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 hours and then quenched with saturated ammonium chloride diluted with dichloromethane separated and the organic layer was washed with brine dried over anhydrous NaSOand filtered through celite and stripped. The residue was purified by reverse phase HPLC C18 column CHCN HO . Recovered starting material 32b weighed 12 mg which was re subjected to the reduction conditions and purified by reverse phase HPLC. All the fractions that contained pure product were extracted with dichloromethane and stripped to give compound 32c 20.7 mg y 37 as a light yellowish solid. MS m z . found 954.2 M H . See .

The tolerability of huMy9 6 conjugates was investigated in female CD 1 mice. Animals were observed for seven days prior to study initiation and found to be free of disease or illness. The mice were administered a single i.v. injection of the conjugate and the animals were monitored daily for body weight loss morbidity or mortality. Table 10 shows that the huMy9 6 SPDB 1c di imine disulfide containing conjugate was tolerated at a dose of less than 300 g kg. In contrast the mono imine disulfide conjugates huMy9 6 SPDB 1f and huMy9 6 sulfo SPDB 1f were found to be better tolerated with a maximum tolerated dose of 729 g kg and 

Compound 33a 20g 77 mmol was added as a thick suspension in anhydrous dichloromethane 100 mL and was cooled to 0 C. Acetic acid 191 mL was added resulting in a clear solution which stirred at 0 C. until cool. Nitric acid 26 mL 581 mmol was added slowly dropwise through an addition funnel. The ice bath was removed and the solution continued to stir at room temperature. After 3 hours the reaction was diluted with deionized water and extracted with dichloromethane. The organic layer was washed with brine dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate and the filtrate concentrated in vacuo. The crude residue was recrystallized using ethyl acetate and hexanes. The solid was filtered and washed with hexanes to give compound 33b as a yellow fluffy solid 13.8g y 59 . H NMR 400 Hz CDCl 7.48 7.43 m 6H 7.25 s 1H 5.25 s 2H 4.02 s 3H MS m z 326.1 M Na . See .

A mixture of 5 amino 1 3 phenylene dimethanol 11.78 g 77 mmol 2 2 2 methoxyethoxy ethoxy ethyl 4 methylbenzenesulfonate 15.3 g 48.1 mmol and potassium carbonate 13.28 g 96 mmol in DMF 96 ml was refluxed for 20 hours. The reaction was cooled to ambient temperature and diluted with dichloromethane. The mixture was filtered through celite and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting orange oil was dissolved in dichloromethane 240 ml and t butyldimethylsilyl chloride 18.09 g 120 mmol and imidazole 9.80 g 144 mmol were added. The reaction was stirred at ambient temperature for 20 hours upon which it was diluted with dichloromethane and filtered through celite. Purification by silica gel chromatography EtOAc Hex yielded 3 5 bis tert butyldimethylsilyl oxy methyl N 2 2 2 methoxyethoxy ethoxy ethyl aniline 13g 52 . H NMR 400 Hz CDCl 6.52 s 1H 6.40 s 2H 4.56 s 4H 3.60 t 2H J 5.2 Hz 3.56 m 6H 3.46 m 2H 3.29 s 3H 3.20 t 2H J 5.2 Hz 0.84 s 18H 0.00 s 12H . MS m z . found 550.1 M Na . See .

To a solution of 3 5 bis tert butyldimethylsilyl oxy methyl N 2 2 2 methoxyethoxy ethoxy ethyl aniline 6.7 g 12.69 mmol in anhydrous 1 2 dichloroethane 50 ml was added 2 methyldithio isobutyraldehyde 2.74 ml 19.04 mmol sodium triacetoxyborohydride 2.8g 1 eq zinc II chloride 0.865 g 6.35 mmol and magnesium sulfate 2.292 g 19.04 mmol . The mixture was stirred for five hours at ambient temperature. Sodium triacetoxyborohydride 2.8g 1 eq was added. The reaction continued to stir at ambient temperature for 20 hours. The mixture was filtered through celite rinsing with dichloromethane and concentrated under reduced pressure then extracted with ethyl acetate and water. The organic extracts were washed with brine dried over magnesium sulfate filtered concentrated and purified by combiflash EtOAc Hex to give 3 5 bis tert butyldimethylsilyl oxy methyl N 2 2 2 methoxyethoxy ethoxy ethyl N 2 methyl 2 methyldisulfanyl propyl aniline 3.5g 40 . H NMR 400 Hz CDCl3 6.73 s 2H 6.59 s 1H 4.56 s 4H 3.65 3.51 m 14H 3.30 s 3H 2.38 s 3H 1.28 s 6H 0.84 s 18H 0.00 s 12H . MS m z . found 684.2 M Na . See .

Tetrabutylammonium fluoride 1M in THF 10.57 ml 10.57 mmol was added dropwise to stirring solution of 3 5 bis tert butyldimethylsilyl oxy methyl N 2 2 2 methoxyethoxy ethoxy ethyl N 2 methyl 2 methyldisulfanyl propyl aniline 3.5 g 5.29 mmol in anhydrous THF 65 ml at 0 C. in an ice bath. Following addition the mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for two hours. The mixture was quenched with saturated ammonium chloride and extracted with ethyl acetate. The extracts were washed with water and brine dried with magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Purification by silica gel chromatography MeOH DCM yielded 5 2 2 2 methoxyethoxy ethoxy ethyl 2 methyl 2 methyldisulfanyl propyl amino 1 3 phenylene dimethanol 2g 87 . H NMR 400 Hz CDCl3 6.76 s 2H 6.63 s 1H 4.55 s 4H 3.65 3.51 m 14H 3.35 s 3H 2.44 s 3H 1.33 s 6H 13C NMR 400 Hz CDCl3 149.0 142.35 114.0 111.1 71.98 70.7 70.6 70.5 67.6 65.5 59.75 59.1 53.9 51.9 26.6 25.7 20.75 MS m z . found 456.2 M Na . See .

 5 amino 1 3 phenylene dimethanol 2.5 g 16.32 mmol and 2 methyldithio isobutyraldehyde 2.347 ml 16.32 mmol were stirred at ambient temperature in absolute ethanol 82 ml until completely dissolved 3 hours . The mixture was cooled to 0 C. in an ice bath and sodium borohydride 0.741 g 19.59 mmol was added. The reaction was stirred for 1 hour at 0 C. and was then quenched slowly with cold 5 HCl solution. The mixture was diluted with dichloromethane and the pH was adjusted to pH 8 with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution then extracted with dichloromethane and then washed with brine. The organic extracts were dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Purification by silica gel chromatography MeOH DCM yielded 5 2 methyl 2 methyldisulfanyl propylamino 1 3 phenylene dimethanol 3g 65 as a white solid. H NMR 400 Hz CDCl 6.62 s 1H 6.54 s 2H 4.53 s 4H 3.13 s 2H 2.30 s 3H 1.32 s 6H . See .

To a solution of 9 hydroxy 8 methoxy 11 12 12a 13 tetrahydro 6H benzo 5 6 1 4 diazepino 1 2 a indol 6 one 3b 0.3 g 1.012 mmol in methanol 5.06 ml were added di tert butyl dicarbonate 0.265 g 1.215 mmol triethylamine 0.212 ml 1.519 mmol and DMAP 6.18 mg 0.051 mmol . After 5 hours of stirring at ambient temperature the reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo. The residue was redissolved in dichloromethane and filtered through celite. Purification by silica gel chromatography 20 EtOAc DCM yielded tert butyl 9 hydroxy 8 methoxy 6 oxo 12a 13 dihydro 6H benzo 5 6 1 4 diazepino 1 2 a indole 11 12H carboxylate 0.21g 52 as a white solid. H NMR 400 Hz CDCl 8.25 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 7.44 s 1H 7.18 t J 7.2 Hz 1H 7.11 d J 7.2 Hz 1H 6.98 t J 7.2 Hz 1H 6.39 s 1H 4.37 m 1H 3.75 s 3H 3.42 m 3H 2.74 dd J 3.6 16.4 Hz 1H 1.47 s 9H . See .

A reaction containing 2.0 mg mL huMy9 6 antibody and 5 molar equivalents of compound 31c pretreated with 5 fold excess of sodium bisulfite in 90 10 DMA water in 50 mM HEPES 4 2 hydroxyethyl 1 piperazine ethanesulfonic acid pH 8.5 buffer and 10 v v DMA N N Dimethylacetamide cosolvent was allowed to conjugate for 6 hours at 25 C. Post reaction the conjugate was purified and buffer exchanged into 250 mM Glycine 10 mM Histidine 1 sucrose 0.01 Tween 20 50 M sodium bisulfite formulation buffer pH 6.2 using NAP desalting columns Illustra Sephadex G 25 DNA Grade GE Healthcare . Dialysis was performed in the same buffer for 4 hours at room temperature utilizing Slide a Lyzer dialysis cassettes ThermoScientific 20 000 MWCO .

The purified conjugate was found to have an average of 3.1 IGN molecules linked per antibody by UV Vis using molar extinction coefficients 15 484 cmMand 30 115 cmMfor 1 and 207 000 cmMfor My9 6 antibody 98 monomer by size exclusion chromatography 

In vitro potency measurements for conjugates of huMy9 6 with 31c at two different drug loads were shown below. Both conjugates were highly potent towards antigen positive HL60 QC cells with ICvalues between 1.3 1.8 pM. Antigen blocking with 1 M unconjugated huMy9 6 significantly diminished the potency demonstrating the antigen specificity of the cytotoxic effect.

In this study the anti tumor activity of several conjugates of the invention are investigated in immune compromised mice nude or SCID preferably female nude mice bearing various tumors. In some cases in addition or as an alternative nude rats may be employed. The conjugates to be tested include any one or more of the conjugates described herein. The various tumor cell lines that can be used for inoculating the nude mice included HL60 QC MOLM 13 NB4 HEL92.1.7 OCI AML3 KB and or any other cancer cell lines recognized in the art as a proper model for a disease indication e.g. cancer . Some criteria that may be applied for the selection of tumor cell lines suitable for in vivo evaluation include a expression of the target antigen on the tumor cell and b sensitivity of tumor cells to the unconjugated drug in vitro. For example an in vitro cell line sensitivity screen such as the 60 cell line screen described by the U.S. National Cancer Institute see Voskoglou Nomikos et al. 2003 Clinical Cancer Res. 9 42227 4239 incorporated herein by reference can be used as one of the guides to determine the types of cancers that may be suitable for treatment with the compounds of the invention. The potency of the various conjugates against the various tumor cell lines as expressed by ICvalues nM is measured accordingly.

The various tumor cell lines are inoculated to nude or SCID mice using substantially the same protocol as outlined in Example 15. For example about 1 10 5 10tumor cells typically 1 10 cells mouse are subcutaneously inoculated at a volume of approximately 0.1 0.2 mL mouse in the area over the right shoulder of female athymic nude mice 6 weeks of age. When the tumor has reached an average size of 100 mm typically 6 to 8 days after tumor cell inoculation mice are randomized into groups e.g. n 5 8 per group by tumor volume. Treatment is initiated the day after randomization and groups includes a control group dosed with the appropriate vehicle 200 L injection or a single treatment at various doses 5 to 700 g kg of the above referenced drug conjugates 50 g kg linked drug dose corresponded to about 2 mg kg antibody dose . Multiple dosing schedules for example treatment at day 1 3 5 or day 1 4 7 may also be employed.

Median and mean tumor volume vs time is measured with the data demonstrating a dose dependent anti tumor activity of the subject conjugates. The minimum effective dose is then calculated and compared to the maximum tolerated dose.

A reaction containing 6 mg mL huMy9 6 antibody and 5 molar equivalents of the highly reactive N succinimidyl 4 4 nitropyridyl 2 dithio butanoate linker 20 mM stock in ethanol was incubated for 3 h at 25 C. in 50 mM EPPS buffer at pH 8. Unreacted linker was removed using a NAP desalting column Illustra Sephadex G 25 DNA Grade GE Healthcare . The linker to antibody ratio LAR was determined to be about 2.3 based on antibody concentration and DTT released nitropyridine 2 thione concentration by UV Vis 14205 cmMfor 2 thio 4 nitropyridone .

Linker modified huMy9 6 was diluted to 2 mg mL in 50 mM HEPES buffer at pH 8.5 10 v v DMA and reacted with 2 molar equivalents of compound 1d per linker 5 mM stock in DMA 4.6 equivalents per antibody for 30 min at 25 C. Completion of disulfide exchange reaction was determined by monitoring absorbance increase at 394 nm by UV.

Post reaction the conjugate was purified and buffer exchanged into 250 mM glycine 10 mM histidine 1 sucrose 0.01 Tween 20 50 M sodium bisulfite at pH 6.2 using a desalting column G 25 Sephadex fine grade GE Healthcare .

The purified conjugate was found to have an average of 2.1 molecules of 1d linked per antibody by UV Vis using molar extinction coefficients 15 484 cmMand 30 115 cmMfor 1d and 207 000 cmMfor huMy9 6 98 monomer by size exclusion chromatography 

