---

title: Wearable devices
abstract: Wearable devices are provided. The wearable device may include a body enclosed by: a front shaped as a rounded square or a rounded rectangle; a back opposite to the front; and an upper side, a lower side, a left side and a right side, which couple the front and back and are between the front and back. The wearable device may also includes: an upper band coupled to the upper side; a lower band coupled to the lower side; a display placed on the front of the body; a camera module disposed on the upper side; and a key disposed on the lower side, the key being operated by being pressed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09442525&OS=09442525&RS=09442525
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09442525
owner_city: Yeongtong-gu, Suwon-si, Gyeonggi-do
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20150209
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 a of a Korean patent application filed on Feb. 21 2014 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office and assigned Serial No. 10 2014 0020580 the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure generally relates to wearable devices that are worn on the human body e.g. on a person s wrist arm etc.

In general electronic devices such as smart phones tablet PCs Portable Multimedia Players PMPs Personal Digital Assistants PDAs laptop computers etc. are designed to be hand held and to have a form factor that allows users to can carry them with one hand or in their pocket. Such devices are prone to being damaged or lost. For example when carrying such a hand held electronic device in one s hand there is chance that the device will be dropped and damaged as a result. Also for example When being carried in one s pocket the device may slip out of the pocket and be lost. Such hand held electronic devices are likely to be lost while users are carrying them or damaged by dropping.

The present disclosure is generally directed to a wearable device that is worn on the human body e.g. on a wrist arm etc. and may be equipped with a variety of functions.

In accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure a wearable device may include a body enclosed by a front a back opposite to the front an upper side a lower side a left side and a right side. The upper lower left and right sides may couple the front and back. The front may be generally or substantially rectangular e.g. a rectangle or a square with rounded edges.

The wearable device may also include an upper band coupled to the upper side a lower band coupled to the lower side a display placed on the front of the body a camera module disclosed on the upper side and a key which may be operated by being pressed disposed on the lower side.

In accordance with another exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure a wearable device may include a housing including a front a back a first side a second side a third side and a fourth side. A wearable tool may be attached to part of the housing and worn on part of an object. A display may be included in the front. A camera window may be disposed on the first side and an image sensor unit may be included inside the housing and located adjacent to the camera window. The front and the first side may form an obtuse angle.

Hereinafter exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure are described in detail with reference to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers are used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or similar parts. For the purposes of clarity and simplicity detailed descriptions of well known functions and structures incorporated herein may be omitted to avoid obscuring the subject matter of the disclosure.

Although specific embodiments are illustrated in the drawings and related detailed descriptions are discussed in the present specification the present disclosure may have various modifications and several embodiments. The various embodiments of the present disclosure are not limited to a specific implementation form and it should be understood that the present disclosure includes all changes and or equivalents and substitutes included in the spirit and scope of the various embodiments of the present disclosure.

The bus may be a circuit connecting the above described components and transmitting communication for example a control message between the above described components.

The processor receives commands from other components for example the memory the input output interface the display the communication interface or the application control module through the bus analyzes the received commands and executes calculation or data processing according to the analyzed commands.

The memory stores commands or data received from the processor or other components for example the input output interface the display the communication interface or the application control module or generated by the processor or other components. The memory may include programming modules for example a kernel middleware an Application Programming Interface API and or an application . Each of the aforementioned programming modules may be implemented by software firmware hardware or a combination of two or more thereof.

The kernel may control or manage system resources for example the bus the processor and or the memory used for executing an operation or function implemented by the remaining other programming modules for example the middleware the API or the application . Further the kernel may provide an interface for accessing individual components of the wearable device from the middleware the API or the application to control or manage the components.

The middleware may perform a relay function of allowing the API or the application to communicate with the kernel to exchange data. Further in operation requests received from the application the middleware may perform a control for the operation requests for example scheduling or load balancing by using a method of assigning a priority by which system resources for example the bus the processor the memory and the like of the wearable device can be used to the application .

The API is an interface by which the application may control a function provided by the kernel or the middleware and may include for example at least one interface or function for example a command for a file control a window control image processing and or a character control.

According to an exemplary embodiment the application may include a Short Message Service SMS Multimedia Messaging Service MMS application an email application a calendar application an alarm application a health care application for example application measuring quantity of exercise or blood sugar or an environment information application for example application providing information on barometric pressure humidity or temperature . Additionally or alternatively the application may be an application related to an information exchange between the wearable device and an external electronic device for example electronic device . The application related to the information exchange may include for example a notification relay application for transferring particular information to the external electronic device or a device management application for managing the external electronic device.

For example the notification relay application may include a function of transmitting notification information generated by another application for example an SMS MMS application an email application a health care application or an environment information application of the wearable device to the external electronic device for example electronic device . Additionally or alternatively the notification relay application may receive notification information from for example the external electronic device and may provide the received notification information to the user. The device management application may manage for example install remove or update at least a part of functions for example turning on off the external electronic device or some components of the external electronic device or controlling a brightness of the display of the external electronic device communicating with the electronic device an application executed in the external electronic device or a service for example call service or message service provided by the external electronic device .

According to various embodiments the application may include an application designated according to an attribute for example type of electronic device of the external electronic device . For example when the external electronic device is an MP3 player the application may include an application related to music reproduction. Similarly when the external electronic device is a mobile medical device the application may include an application related to health care. According to an embodiment the application may include at least one of an application designated to the wearable device and an application received from an external electronic device for example server or electronic device .

The input output interface may transmit a command or data input from the user through an input output device for example a sensor a keyboard or a touch screen to the processor the memory the communication interface or the display control module through for example the bus . For example the input output interface may provide data on a user s touch input through a touch screen to the processor . Further the input output interface may output a command or data received through for example the bus from the processor the memory the communication interface or the application control module through the input output device for example a speaker or a display . For example the input output interface may output voice data processed through the processor to the user through the speaker.

The display may display various pieces of information for example multimedia data text data or the like for the user.

The communication interface connects communication between the wearable device and the external device for example electronic device or server . For example the communication interface may access a network through a wireless or wired communication to communicate with the external device. The wireless communication may include at least one of for example WiFi BlueTooth BT Near Field Communication NFC a Global Positioning System GPS and cellular communication for example LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS WiBro or GSM . The wired communication may include at least one of for example a Universal Serial Bus USB a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI Recommended Standard 232 RS 232 and a Plain Old Telephone Service POTS .

According to an embodiment the network may be a telecommunication network. The telecommunication network includes at least one of a computer network Internet Internet of things and a telephone network. According to an embodiment a protocol for example transport layer protocol data link layer protocol or physical layer protocol for communication between the wearable device and the external device may be supported by at least one of the application the application programming interface the middleware the kernel and the communication interface .

According to an embodiment the server supports driving of the wearable device by performing at least one operation or function implemented by the electronic device . For example the server may include a communication control server module that supports the application control module implemented in the electronic device . For example the communication control server module may include at least one of the components of the application control module to perform on behalf of at least one operations performed by the application control module .

The AP operates an operating system OS or an application program so as to control a plurality of hardware or software component elements connected to the AP and execute various data processing and calculations including multimedia data. The AP may be implemented by for example a System on Chip SoC . According to an embodiment the processor may further include a Graphic Processing Unit GPU .

The communication module for example communication interface may transmit receive data in communication between different electronic devices for example the electronic device and the server connected to the wearable device for example electronic device through a network. According to an embodiment the communication module may include a cellular module a WiFi module a BlueTooth BT module a Global Positioning System GPS module a Near Field Communication NFC module and or a Radio Frequency RF module .

The cellular module may provide a voice a call a video call a Short Message Service SMS or an Internet service through a communication network for example Long Term Evolution LTE LTE A Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Wideband CDMA WCDMA UMTS WiBro GSM or the like . Further the cellular module may distinguish and authenticate electronic devices within a communication network by using a subscriber identification module for example the SIM card . According to an embodiment the cellular module may perform at least some of the functions which can be provided by the AP . For example the cellular module may perform at least some of the multimedia control functions.

According to an embodiment the cellular module may include a Communication Processor CP . Further the cellular module may be implemented by for example an SoC.

Although the components such as the cellular module for example communication processor the memory and the power managing module are illustrated as components separate from the AP in the AP may include at least some for example cellular module of the aforementioned components in an embodiment.

According to an embodiment the AP or the cellular module for example communication processor may load a command or data received from at least one of a non volatile memory and other components connected to each of the AP and the cellular module to a volatile memory and process the loaded command or data. Further the AP or the cellular module may store data received from at least one of other components or generated by at least one of other components in a non volatile memory.

Each of the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may include for example a processor for processing data transmitted received through the corresponding module. Although the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module are illustrated as blocks separate from each other in at least some for example two or more of the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may be included in one Integrated Chip IC or one IC package according to one embodiment. For example at least some for example the communication processor corresponding to the cellular module and the WiFi processor corresponding to the WiFi module of the processors corresponding to the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may be implemented by one SoC.

The RF module may transmit receive data such as for example an RF signal. Although not illustrated the RF module may include for example a transceiver a Power Amp Module PAM a frequency filter a Low Noise Amplifier LNA or the like. Further the RF module may further include a component for transmitting receiving electronic waves over a free air space in wireless communication for example a conductor a conducting wire or the like. Although the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module share one RF module in at least one of the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and or the NFC module may transmit receive a signal e.g. an RF signal through a separate RF module according to one embodiment.

The SIM card is a card including a Subscriber Identification Module and may be inserted into a slot formed in a particular portion of the electronic device. The SIM card may include unique identification information for example Integrated Circuit Card IDentifier ICCID or subscriber information for example International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI .

The memory for example memory may include an internal memory or an external memory . The internal memory may include for example at least one of a volatile memory for example a Random Access Memory RAM a dynamic RAM DRAM a static RAM SRAM a synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM and the like and a non volatile Memory for example a Read Only Memory ROM a one time programmable ROM OTPROM a programmable ROM PROM an erasable and programmable ROM EPROM an electrically erasable and programmable ROM EEPROM a mask ROM a flash ROM a NAND flash memory an NOR flash memory and the like .

According to an embodiment the internal memory may be a Solid State Drive SSD . The external memory may further include a flash drive for example a Compact Flash CF a Secure Digital SD a Micro Secure Digital Micro SD a Mini Secure Digital Mini SD an extreme Digital xD or a memory stick. The external memory may be functionally connected to the wearable device through various interfaces. According to an embodiment the wearable device may further include a storage device or storage medium such as a hard drive.

The sensor module may measure a physical quantity or detect an operation state of the electronic device and may convert the measured or detected information into an electronic signal. The sensor module may include for example at least one of a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B an atmospheric pressure barometric sensor C a magnetic sensor D an acceleration sensor E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G a color sensor H for example Red Green and Blue RGB sensor H a biometric sensor I a temperature humidity sensor J an illumination light sensor K and or an Ultra Violet UV sensor M. Additionally or alternatively the sensor module may include for example a E nose sensor an electromyography EMG sensor an electroencephalogram EEG sensor an electrocardiogram ECG sensor an InfraRed IR sensor an iris sensor a fingerprint sensor not illustrated and the like. The sensor module may further include a control circuit for controlling one or more sensors included in the sensor module .

The input device may include a touch panel a digital pen sensor a key and or an ultrasonic input device . For example the touch panel may recognize a touch input in at least one type of a capacitive type a resistive type an infrared type and an acoustic wave type. The touch panel may further include a control circuit. Where the touch input is of the capacitive type the touch panel may recognize proximity as well as a direct touch. The touch panel may further include a tactile layer such that the touch panel may provide a tactile reaction to the user.

The digital pen sensor may be implemented for example using a method identical or similar to a method of receiving a touch input of the user or using a separate recognition sheet. The key may include for example a physical button an optical key or a key pad. The ultrasonic input device is a device that can detect an acoustic wave by a microphone for example microphone of the wearable device through an input means generating an ultrasonic signal to identify data and can perform wireless recognition. According to an embodiment the wearable device may receive a user input from an external device for example computer or server connected to the wearable device by using the communication module .

The display for example display may include a panel a hologram device and a projector . The panel may be for example a Liquid Crystal Display LCD or an Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diode AM OLED . The panel may be implemented to be for example flexible transparent or wearable. The panel may be configured or controlled via the touch panel . The hologram device shows a stereoscopic image in the air by using interference of light. The projector may project light on a screen to display an image. For example the screen may be located inside or outside the electronic device . According to an embodiment the display may further include a control circuit for controlling the panel the hologram device and or the projector .

The interface may include for example a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI a Universal Serial Bus USB an optical interface and a D subminiature D sub . The interface may be included in for example the communication interface illustrated in . Additionally or alternatively the interface may include for example a Mobile High definition Link MHL interface a Secure Digital SD card Multi Media Card MMC and or an Infrared Data Association IrDA standard interface.

The audio module may bi directionally convert a sound and an electronic signal. At least some components of the audio module may be included in for example the input output interface illustrated in . The audio module processes sound information input or output through for example a speaker a receiver an earphone the microphone or the like.

The camera module is a device which can photograph a still image and a video. According to an embodiment the camera module may include one or more image sensors for example a front sensor or a back sensor an Image Signal Processor ISP not shown or a flash for example an LED or xenon lamp .

The power managing module manages power of the electronic device . Although not illustrated the power managing module may include for example a Power Management Integrated Circuit PMIC a charger Integrated Circuit IC and or a battery or fuel gauge.

The PMIC may be mounted to for example an integrated circuit or an SoC semiconductor. A charging method may be divided into wired and wireless methods. The charger IC charges a battery and prevent over voltage or over current from flowing from a charger. According to an embodiment the charger IC includes a charger IC for at least one of the wired charging method and the wireless charging method. The wireless charging method may include for example a magnetic resonance method a magnetic induction method and an electromagnetic wave method and additional circuits for wireless charging for example circuits such as a coil loop a resonant circuit a rectifier or the like may be added.

The battery fuel gauge measures for example a remaining quantity of the battery or a voltage a current or a temperature during charging. The battery may store or generate electricity and supply power to the wearable device by using the stored or generated electricity. The battery may include a rechargeable battery or a solar battery.

The indicator shows particular statuses of the wearable device or a part for example AP of the electronic device for example a booting status a message status a charging status and the like. The motor converts an electrical signal to a mechanical vibration.

Although not illustrated the wearable device may include a processing unit for example GPU for supporting a module TV. The processing unit for supporting the mobile TV may process for example media data according to a standard of Digital Multimedia Broadcasting DMB Digital Video Broadcasting DVB media flow or the like.

Each of the components of the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be implemented by one or more components and the name of the corresponding component may vary depending on a type of the electronic device. The electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one of the above described components a few of the components may be omitted or additional components may be further included. Also some of the components of the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be combined to form a single entity and thus may equivalently execute functions of the corresponding components before being combined.

The term module used in the present disclosure may refer to for example a unit including one or more combinations of hardware software and firmware. The module may be interchangeable with a term such as unit logic logical block component circuit or the like. The module may be a minimum unit of a component formed as one body or a part thereof. The module may be a minimum unit for performing one or more functions or a part thereof. The module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example the module according to an embodiment of the present disclosure may include at least one of an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC chip a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA and a programmable logic device for performing certain operations which have been known or are to be developed in the future.

The wearable device may include a display a camera module a key a body and or a band . The band may include an upper band A connected to an upper side A of the body and or a lower band B connected to a lower side B of the body .

The body may include the display the camera module and or the key on the front. The body is formed a housing A. The housing A may be connected to a cover B placed at the lower portion. The housing A and the cover B may form an internal space where electric parts are placed. The body may include a front which may be shaped as a rounded square or a rounded rectangle and a back opposite to the front. An upper side A and a lower side B may couple the front and back and may be between the front and the back. The left side and the right side may couple the front and back and may be between the front and the back. The body may form the sides by the upper sides A the lower sides B the left side and the right side which are between the front and the back. The upper side A may form an obtuse angle with the front of the body and an acute angle with the back of the body . The lower side B may form an obtuse angle with the front of the body and an acute angle with the back of the body . The upper side A may form a groove. The camera module may include a lens or a camera window and may be located within the groove and exposed to the outside in the groove. The key may be placed at the lower side B of the body and may extend or protrude therefrom. The left side and the right side may be positioned opposite one another with respect to the display . The upper side A and the lower sides B may be opposite to each other with respect to the display .

The upper side A may be connected to the upper band A. The lower side B may be connected to the lower band B. The body may form slope portions A B part of which may be sloped in the direction to be worn on the human body e.g. wrist respectively. The slope portions A B may include a first slope potion A and a second slope portion B formed at both sides of the body . In the disclosure the first slope portion A may be referred to as the upper side A and the second slope portion B may be referred to as the lower side B. When viewing the front of the wearable device the body may be formed in such a way that each of the both sides may be wider closer to the display and narrower closer to the band A or B. For example when viewing the front of the wearable device each of the both sides of the body may be shaped as a curved isosceles trapezoid so that it is wider closer to the display and narrower closer to the band A or B. It may be modified in such a way that when viewing the front of the wearable device the both sides of the body may be shaped as asymmetric forms as an aesthetic design element.

The camera module may be located adjacent to the display . The camera module may be located at the upper side A adjacent to the display . The camera module may be located at the upper side A between the display and the upper band A.

The upper side A may be sloped along the side of the wearable device in such a way that one end of the upper side A connected to the display is higher than the other end connected to the upper band A.

The key may be located adjacent to the display . The key may be located at the lower side B adjacent to the display . The key may be located at the lower side B between the display and the lower band B. The lower side B may sloped along the side of the wearable device in such a way that one end of the lower side B connected to the display is higher than the other end connected to the lower band B. For example the wearable device may include a mechanical button e.g. direction keys volume key an optical key a key pad or the like as well as the key . The mechanical button e.g. direction keys volume key optical key key pad or the like may be located adjacent to the display . The mechanical button e.g. direction keys volume key optical key key pad or the like may be located at the lower portion of the body adjacent to the display . The mechanical button e.g. direction keys volume key optical key key pad or the like may be located at the lower portion of the body between the display and the lower band B.

The body may be made of a synthetic material plastics e.g. ABS polycarbonate ceramic wood metal e.g. polished aluminum metal alloy e.g. steel stainless steel titanium or magnesium based alloy or the like.

The body may be formed in such a way that the both ends are connected to the band that are worn on the human body e.g. wrist or arm .

The body may store an application processor or processor for controlling the wearable device a communication module for communicating with a base station a server or an external communication device via a communication network a sensor module for measuring physical quantities detecting operation states of the wearable device and converting measured or detected information to electrical signals a touch panel for sensing a user s touch inputs including direct touches or proximity touches a speaker for outputting voices a camera module for taking still images or moving images a battery etc.

The band may be made of metal textile leather rubber synthetic fiber wood ceramic plastics or the like. The band may be layered with various materials. The band may include a conductive material that can be electrically connected to the electronic parts stored in the body . The band may be a wearable tool that is attached to part of the housing A and worn on part of an external object e.g. the human body .

Referring to the band may be conductive in such a way that it is covered with a conductive material . The band may include covered electric wires in its body. The band may include electric wires that are layered with at least one wire being layered upon another wire. The conductive material may electrically connect parts in the body to parts in a fastener .

The band may include a fastener that allows users to detachably attach the wearable device to his her body e.g. wrist arm etc. . Examples of the fastener may be a buckle a snap fitting hook a fabric hook and loop fastener etc. The fastener may store a module e.g. a camera module a projector etc. . The fastener may be formed in such a way that its part is elastic.

When viewing the side of the wearable device the body and the display may be curved along to correspond to the shape of the human body e.g. wrist . The body may form slope portions A B part of which are sloped in the direction to be worn on the human body e.g. wrist respectively. The body forms holes C and D at the both ends into which pins may be inserted to connect the band A and B to the both ends. The bands A and B may attach dielectric supports to end s of the bands so that they can secure strength and firmly hold the pins in the holes C and D respectively. When viewing the side of the wearable device the upper hole C may be located under the camera module and connected to the upper band A. The lower hole D may be located under the key and connected to the lower band B. With the holes C and D formed at both ends of the body the bands A and B are positioned such that an angle of view of the camera module is not blocked. At least one of the holes C and D may be formed at the ends of four corners of the body . The terms band coupling unit C and D as used herein refers to the bands A and B where they include at least one of the holes C and D.

The wearable device may be configured such that the body forms locking grooves A and B at the left and right side so that it can be connected to an external electronic device e.g. a charger . The wearable device may include a left locking groove A and a right locking groove B sot that it can be connected to an external electronic device e.g. a charger . In another embodiment of the present disclosure the wearable device may further include a detachable charger.

Referring to the external electronic device may include wing shaped hooks A and B to which the wearable device is detachably attached. The external electronic device forms a concave surface. When the wearable device may be coupled to the external electronic device part of the left side right side and back of the wearable device may contact the concave surface of the external electronic device . The external electronic device may include a support or cradle for coupling to the wearable device . The left locking groove A of the wearable device may be coupled to the left hook A of the external electronic device . The right locking groove B of the wearable device may be coupled to the right hook B of the external electronic device . The external electronic device may be designed in such a way as to surround part of the sides and the back of the wearable device . The external electronic device may be facing part of the back the left and the right side of the wearable device .

Referring to the body may have at least a part that may be sloped to the direction to be worn on the human body e.g. wrist at the same slope angle as the upper side A. The wearable device may include a first slope portion A formed at the upper ends of the body respectively. When viewing the front of the wearable device the upper side A may be formed in such a way that it is wide closer to the display and narrow closer to the upper band A. For example when viewing the front of the wearable device the upper side A is shaped as a curved isosceles trapezoid so that it is wide closer to the display and narrow closer to the upper band A. It may be modified in such a way that when viewing the front of the wearable device the upper side A of the body may be shaped as an asymmetric form as an aesthetic design element.

The camera module may be located adjacent to the display . The camera module may be located at the upper side A of the body adjacent to the display . The camera module may be located at the upper side A of the body between the display and the upper band A.

The camera module may include an image sensor unit and a camera window . The camera window may be sloped at the same slope as the upper side A. The camera window may be designed to cover the image sensor unit . The camera window may be made of plastic or toughened glass. The camera window may have a transparent area corresponding to an angle of view of the image sensor unit so that the image sensor unit can take pictures. The camera module may include the image sensor unit and a lens . The image sensor unit may include one or more image sensors . The camera module may be arranged so that the image sensors and the lens are facing the outside.

The camera module may further include an infra red transceiver . The camera window may be designed to cover the image sensor unit infra red transceiver and lens so that it can protect at least one of the image sensor unit infra red transceiver and lens . The wearable device may control external devices by infra red signals of the infra red transceiver . The infra red transceiver may include an infrared transmitting unit e.g. infra red LED for generating infra red signals and an infrared receiving unit e.g. infra red detector for receiving infra red signals. The wearable device may execute a function or an application by a received infra red signal.

The camera window may form a pattern by deposition or silk screen printing so that a window for the image sensor unit can be created at a location where the image sensor unit is placed.

The camera window may form a window for the infra red transceiver with a pattern in dark color group e.g. black by deposition or silk screen printing at a location where the infra red transceiver is placed so that the infra red transceiver cannot be seen from the outside.

The camera window may form a pattern by printing between the windows for the image sensor unit and the infra red transceiver so that the image sensor unit and the infra red transceiver can be discerned and the windows for the image sensor unit and the infra red transceiver can also be discerned.

The body may be formed to include at least a part that is sloped along the direction to be worn on the human body e.g. wrist at the same slope angle as the lower side B. The wearable device may include a second slope portion B formed at the lower ends of the body respectively. When viewing the front of the wearable device the lower side B may be formed in such a way that it is wider closer to the display and narrower closer to the lower band B. For example when viewing the front of the wearable device the lower side B may be shaped as a curved isosceles trapezoid so that it is wide closer to the display and narrow closer to the lower band B. It may be modified in such a way that when viewing the front of the wearable device the lower side B of the body may be shaped as an asymmetric form as an aesthetic design element.

The key may be located adjacent to the display . The key may be located at the lower side B of the body adjacent to the display . The key may be located at the lower side B of the body between the display and the lower band B.

The key may receive a user s input signal by pressing. As an example of a user s input signal from the key when the wearable device receives a power supply control signal it may be turned on off. As another example of a user s input signal from the key when the wearable device receives a reset signal it may be reset. As still another example of a user s input signal from the key when the wearable device receives a display control signal such as a signal for displaying a home screen it may perform a corresponding display control operation such as to display a home screen.

As shown in the key may include a mechanical physical button an elastic member a water proof ring and or a key receiving circuit unit which may be perpendicular to the second slope portion B. When the mechanical physical button is pressed by a user s inputting action the key receiving circuit e.g. FPCB under the button may detect the user s pressing action. The elastic member e.g. spring is located between the mechanical physical button and the key receiving circuit unit . The elastic member holds the mechanical physical button to be placed at the second slope portion B. The water proof ring may be located between the mechanical physical button and the elastic member . The water proof ring prevents water from leaking through the key .

As shown in the body may include an audio outputting unit . The wearable device may output audio via the audio outputting unit . The audio outputting unit may be placed in the cover B. The body may include the audio outputting unit on one of the sides e.g. the left side . The housing A is formed part of which is sloped to the direction to be worn on the human body e.g. wrist at the same slope angle as the upper side A and lower side B respectively. The housing A forms holes C and D at the both ends into which pins are inserted to connect the band A and B to the both ends. In another embodiment of the present disclosure the body includes the front shaped as a rounded square or a rounded rectangle the back opposite to the front the upper sides A and the lower sides B between the front and the back and the left side and the right side between the front and the back. The body forms the sides by the upper sides A the lower sides B the left side and the right side which are between the front and the back. The upper side A may form an obtuse angle with the front of the body and an acute angle with the back of the body . The lower side B may form an obtuse angle with the front of the body and an acute angle with the back of the body . The upper side A forms a groove. The camera module may include a lens or a camera window disclosed to the outside in the groove. The key may be positioned at the lower side B of the body and may protrude therefrom. The left side and the right side are opposite to each other with respect to the display . The upper side A and the lower side B are opposite to each other with respect to the display .

As shown in the display may be placed on the front of the housing A. The body may include a speaker between the housing A and the cover B. The speaker may be placed under the display and above the cover B. The body may include a sealant between the housing A and the cover B. The sealant prevents containments such as water from infiltrating. For example the sealant may be a rubber or a water proof film. The sealant encloses the wearable device so that the enclosed inside space of the wearable device can serve as a back volume for the speaker .

As shown in the speaker may be designed in such a way that the back side is open so that it can prevent the interference with sound created in the back side of the diaphragm and the sound of the back side can be transferred inside the wearable device .

As shown in the display may be placed on the front of the housing A. The body may include a speaker or a printed circuit board assembly between the housing A and the cover B. The speaker or printed circuit board assembly may be placed under the display and close to the cover B. The body may further include a buffering member for protecting the display against impacts between the speaker or printed circuit board assembly and the housing A. The body may also include a sealant between the housing A and the cover B. The sealant prevents containments such as water from infiltrating. For example when viewing from the front of the display the speaker may be placed inside at the top left of the wearable device and the printed circuit board assembly may be placed inside at the top right of the wearable device .

As shown in the wearable device shows the back by removing the cover B. The wearable device may be configured in such a way that a key is placed inside at the bottom and a battery is placed at the top of the key . The wearable device may be configured in such a way that a key and a battery are placed inside at the bottom. The wearable device may be configured in such a way that the speaker and the printed circuit board assembly are placed side by side on the battery and the image sensor unit and the infra red LED are placed side by side on the speaker and the printed circuit board assembly . For example when viewing the back of the wearable device the speaker may be placed at the right and the printed circuit board assembly may be placed at the right. For example when viewing the back of the wearable device the infra red transceiver may be placed at the right and the image sensor unit may be placed at the left.

The printed circuit board assembly may include a connector and a biometric sensor I. The wearable device may be configured in such a way that a communication module or a motor are placed at the right and left edges inside the sealant . The wearable device may electrically connect to external devices through the connector and may obtain a user s biometric information through the biometric sensor I.

As shown in the wearable device may include a connector and a biometric sensor I on the back. For example the biometric sensor I may be a hear rate monitor HRM sensor. The HRM sensor I detects infra red dispersed from the blood vessels in the wrist of the user wearing the wearable device and measures the user s heart rate. It is preferable that the HRM sensor I may be located within the middle C of the three areas into which the body may equally divided in the longitudinal direction i.e. an area between and from the top of the body . When the HRM sensor I is located within an area between and from the top of the body it may reduce the possibility the HRM sensor I to miss the user s wrist so that it can obtain the accurate heart rate. When viewing the back of the wearable device the HRM sensor I is located in the middle C of the three areas into which the body may be equally divided in the longitudinal direction. The connector may be close to the HRM sensor I and above the HRM sensor I . The biometric sensor I may further include other types of sensors for sensing biometric information other than the heart rate by the HRM sensor I e.g. a sensor for sensing human body. In that case the sensor for sensing human body or the HRM sensor I may be located in the middle A of the three areas into which the body may equally divided in the longitudinal direction. In another embodiment of the present disclosure the biometric sensor I may be located in an area of the body between the first and second virtual lines as shown in apart from and of the length of the body from the upper side A i.e. the middle C expanding parallel to the lengthwise direction of the upper side A or the lower side B.

As shown in the wearable device includes the connector or a window I for the HRM sensor on the back. The HRM sensor I may be layered on the HRM sensor window I. The printed circuit board assembly may be layered on the HRM sensor I or the connector . The display may be placed above the printed circuit board assembly . The HRM sensor window I may be made of plastic or toughened glass. The HRM sensor window I may form a transparent area corresponding to the area of the HRM sensor I through which the HRM sensor I may illuminate infra red and receive the dispersed infra red from the user.

As shown in the wearable device may install an external card e.g. SIM card memory card etc. in the top of the back. For example when viewing the back of the wearable device the wearable device may place the connector and the HRM sensor I at the left of the back and the external card at the right of the back.

As shown in when viewing the rear side of the wearable device the wearable device may place an interface unit receiving the external card at the top right of the back.

The housing A includes the display on the front. The housing A may be formed to have part of which that may be sloped to the direction to be worn on the human body e.g. wrist at the same slope angle as the upper side A and lower side B respectively. The housing A forms the upper side A and lower side B part of which are sloped to the direction to be worn on the human body e.g. wrist . The camera module may be placed in the center of the upper side A. The key may be placed in the center of the lower side B. The housing A forms holes C and D at the both ends into which pins are inserted to connect the band A and B to the both ends. The first hole C may be coupled to the upper band A. The second hole D is coupled to the lower band B. Although the embodiments of the present disclosure describe the band as a dedicated product for the wearable device it should be understood that the wearable device may also employ conventional wrist watch bands. The cover B includes an interface unit e.g. slots for receiving the external card e.g. SIM card or memory card . The body includes a housing A forming the front the upper A and lower B sides and one part of the left and right sides and a cover B forming the back and the other part of the left and right sides e.g. part of the left and right side included in the housing A and part of the left and right sides not included in other housing A .

The cover B may allow for the arrangement of locking grooves A and B at both sides to be coupled with an external electronic device e.g. a charger . The cover B may allow for the arrangement of the audio outputting unit to output sound from the side. In another embodiment of the present disclosure the body may include the audio outputting unit in the upper side lower side left side right side or back. The housing A and the cover B form the body and are coupled to each other by coupling members e.g. screws . The cover B forms coupling holes at the four corners for receiving the coupling members or screws. The housing A and the cover B may form the body and may include the battery and the printed circuit board assembly in the space therebetween. The housing A and the cover B are may be coupled to each other and may be enclosed by the sealant .

As described above the wearable devices according to the embodiments of the present disclosure can be configured to include various types of apparatuses and provide a variety of functions to users.

Although exemplary embodiments of the disclosure have been described in detail above it should be understood that many variations and modifications of the basic inventive concept herein described which may be apparent to those skilled in the art will still fall within the spirit and scope of the exemplary embodiments as defined in the appended claims.

