---

title: User equipment, base station, and MTC-IWF for implementing group based MTC messaging through cell broadcast
abstract: The present disclosure proposes a UE, a base station, and a MTC-IWF for implementing MTC group trigger messages through a Cell Broadcasting Service (CBS). The method includes a MTC (Machine Type Communication) server transmitting to a MTC Inter-working Function (MTC-IWF) a trigger payload. The trigger payload would be delivered by the MTC-IWF to a group of MTC devices through Cell Broadcasting Center (CBC) and network nodes. The trigger payload may include a group trigger message indicator which distinguishes the group trigger message from a normal warning message. In response to receiving the content of the trigger payload, the network would page a group of MTC devices. From the group trigger message indicator embedded in the paging message, each MTC device would be able to receive a group trigger message through new system information block of the broadcast information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09585123&OS=09585123&RS=09585123
owner: HTC Corporation
number: 09585123
owner_city: Taoyuan
owner_country: TW
publication_date: 20150614
---
This application is a continuation application of and claims the priority benefit of a prior application Ser. No. 13 933 137 filed on Jul. 2 2013 now allowed. The prior application Ser. No. 13 933 137 claims the priority benefit of U.S. provisional application Ser. No. 61 667 433 filed on Jul. 3 2012. The entirety of each of the above mentioned patent applications is hereby incorporated by reference herein and made a part of this specification.

The present disclosure generally relates to a user equipment UE a base station and a Machine Type Communication Interworking Function MTC IWF for implementing group based MTC device triggering through cell broadcasting messages.

Machine type communication MTC is a form of data communication which involves one or more entities that do not necessarily require human interventions. A MTC device could be a user equipment equipped for MTC or a device deployed with MTC applications and may communicate through a Home Public Land Mobile Network HPLMN such as a mobile network of a service provider with MTC servers or other MTC devices. Examples of MTC applications could include and not limited to a user equipment UE such as a mobile handset equipped with MTC applications or functions a vehicular device which may include speedometer odometer anti theft devices road side monitors and personal health care devices which may include blood pressure sensor blood sugar sensor pace maker and homeland security monitors which may include earthquake detectors landslide detectors and smart meters.

As the MTC form of communication has become one of the imminent developments of the communication industry group based MTC communication has been one of the topics discussed by the specification setting organizations such as ESTI and 3GPP. Since the quantity of MTC devices is expected to far exceed the quantity of typical handheld mobile devices the large volumes of communication traffic transmitting back and forth between networks and MTC services could impose a serious burden on any communication network if left uncontrolled. In order to streamline MTC communications by reducing the volume of control and data traffic as well as to enhance MTC manageability resorting to group based MTC control is an efficient and unavoidable trend in the communication industry. MTC devices could typically be grouped based on common features such as common functions or locations and group based MTC communications would effectively reduce the amount of traffic and allow a MTC application server to interact with large quantities of MTC apparatuses.

Within the area of group based MTC communications a more specific topic which has been discussed is the handling of group based MTC device messages in the HPLMN or more specifically the handling of group based MTC messaging in between a MTC server and a MTC device within a network. For just an individual device trigger message per se it has been proposed to solve issues related to MTC device trigger in the HPLMN through a control plane Device Trigger Gateway DT GW which would be implemented as a functional entity within the MTC inter working function MTC IWF and thus the DT GW function within MTC IWF is referred to as the Device Trigger DT function. A device trigger message could be transmitted from a MTC server over the Tsp reference point to the HPLMN. After the device trigger message is received and processed by the MTC IWF within the HPLMN the device trigger message would be delivered to a MTC device by the HPLMN. 3GPP TR 23.888 v11.6.1 Reference 1 hereinafter describes in detail the handling of device triggers within HPLMN and the delivery of device trigger from the HPLMN to a UE as well as functional definitions of the DT function and is therefore incorporated by reference for all purposes.

For example in the case of the Long Term Evolution LTE System when a MTC server wants to communication with a MTC device but lacks sufficient information to be able to send data packets to the MTC device or when the MTC device has gone into hibernation or has timed out the MTC server may send a device trigger request with an identity of the MTC device to the MTC IWF in order to test or recover the connectivity with the MTC device. Upon receiving the device trigger request the MTC IWF would attempt to receive authorization of the device trigger request from a Home Subscriber Service HSS using at least the identify of the MTC device. After receiving authorization of the trigger request the MTC IWF may deliver a trigger message to a Serving General Packet Radio Services Support Node SGSN or Mobility Management Entity MME in order for the trigger message to be delivered to the MTC device through a paging message. The delivery of the trigger message from the MTC IWF to the SGSN or MME could be through a variety of different mediums as described in section 6.45.4 6.45.5 of reference 1 .

However there has not been a common consensus as to how to effectively implement a group based MTC message. Conventionally if an application server were to send a message to a group of MTC devices the application would have to send separate messages to each of the group of TMC devices.

To implement the group based MTC messaging one inclination of the communication industry is to implement such measure by modifying existing infrastructures. One suggestion is to utilize group based MTC messaging the existing medium of a Cell Broadcasting Service CBS which utilizes a Cell Broadcast Center CBC within the network architecture to enable a broadcast message to be delivered to a group of MTC devices. However using the CBS to deliver device trigger messages would not be without difficulties since different networks implement cell broadcasts differently. The network architectures and the subsequent CBS delivery procedures of Global System for Mobile communications GSM Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS and Evolved Packet System EPS are all different as described in 3GPP TS 23.041 v11.2.0 Reference 2 hereinafter particularly in sections 3.1 3.3. Reference 2 is hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes.

For example in LTE the MTC IWF has incorporated the functionalities of a Cell Broadcast Entity CBE which acts as one or more interfaces between a CBC and a Mobile Network Operator MNO and the CBE would typically provide functions related to formatting control and definition of the CBS messages. After a MTC server delivers a message to the MTC IWF the CBE may format the message in order for the message to be comprehensible for the CBC. The CBC would then deliver the device trigger message to a MME in order to be delivered to a chosen number of base stations or eNBs and then base stations would be able to deliver the message to MTC devices through paging messages. However since different network architectures handles the CBS differently the operations required by the MTC IWF would be increasing complex.

Besides the abovementioned challenge related to network compatibilities group based MTC messaging through the current CBS would pose others challenges. References 1 and 2 have proposed letting the MTC IWF to send group based trigger messages to the CBC to order to trigger a group of MTC devices by using the existing CBS mechanism. However in evolved packet system EPS cell broadcasting is currently used by Public Warning System PWS solely for broadcasting warning messages via Evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access EUTRAN . A detailed description of warning message deliveries would be further described in reference 2 sections 9.1.3 and corresponding sub sections. This would mean that every group based trigger message would be regarded as a warning message delivery for an emergency notification to UEs and each notification would avoidably be regarded by the UEs as having the highest priority. However legacy UEs may not recognize trigger messages sent by the CBS mechanism and would always have to receive the PWS message and then discard it and the received PWS messages would contain a Message Identifier which is not in the search list. Thus needless power consumptions would be levied upon legacy UEs.

Also in response to receiving a group based trigger message a large number of MTC devices may respond to the group based trigger message at once and would therefore cause congestions in the Radio Access Network RAN nodes or Core CN nodes.

Furthermore when MTC device triggering messages are applied through CBS or for group based trigger delivery the MTC IWF would first need to send trigger information to the CBC. However after submitting a trigger message to the CBC the message delivery procedure between GSM UMTS and EUTRAN are different as shown in FIG. 4b of section 9.1.3.2 and FIG. 9.1.3..3.2 1 of section 9.1.3.3.2. Thus a solution would be needed in order to alleviate the resulting management complexity on the MTC IWF so as to discern procedural differences between delivering trigger messages through GSM UMTS or EUTRAN.

In order to tackle all these aforementioned challenges a different method and apparatuses to handle group based MTC messaging would be use to meet these challenges.

Accordingly the present disclosure is directed to a UE a base stat and a MTC IWF for implementing group based MTC messaging through cell broadcasting messages.

Accordingly the present disclosure is directed to a MTC IWF which receives a group trigger message from a MTC server. The group trigger message could be embedded in a Device Trigger Request message sent by the MTC server through the Tsp interface. The content of the group trigger message may include but not limited to a group identification of message targets geographic information of message targets and group message information. Since the group trigger message would be delivered using the CBS the MTC IWF could then format the group MTC message such that the message would differentiate from a typical warning message before delivering to a CBC the formatted the group trigger message embedded in the Device Trigger Request message.

According to one exemplary embodiment a new warning type such as a trigger warning type could be used as a group trigger indicator in a warning message to differentiate between the group trigger message and a typical warning message. The trigger warning type could be represented by one bit in the trigger payload which is an information element of the group trigger message.

According to one exemplary embodiment the new warning type trigger warning type could be served as a group trigger indicator embedded in the trigger payload which could be set or added by the MTC IWF or by a service capability server SCS to be included in the group trigger message sent to the CBC. The group trigger indicator would inform a network control node or the CBC that the message received from the MTC IWF is a group trigger message and the trigger warning type would indicate a serving base station to transmit a paging message which would include the trigger payload.

According to one exemplary embodiment the group trigger message sent from a MTC server may include an information element which contains a randomized time window to randomize the response time from each UE so that each UE may respond according to a randomized delay. The group trigger message sent from the MTC server may also include a mobile originated MO transmission duration IE which randomizes the MO transmission initiation time within the MO transmission duration for initiating service request or attach procedures. Also the MTC IWF may override the time window or the MO transmission duration in group trigger message received over the Tsp interface.

According to one exemplary embodiment the MTC IWF may add a cell broadcast message ID to the group trigger message for the purpose of identifying a group of MTC targets. The cell broadcast message ID could further include a group ID information to further distinguish among MTC targets in the case when multiple MTC groups use the same message ID.

Accordingly the present disclosure is directed to a base station which receives from a CBC a WRITE REPLACE message which contains a message content to be delivered to a group of devices and the message content would include a parameter indicating that the message content is a group trigger message.

According to one exemplary embodiment a base station would receive from the CBC in the WRITE REPLACE message a group trigger message warning type or a trigger warning type in the message content to distinguish from a normal warning type such as an earthquake warning type a tsunami type an earthquake and tsunami warning type a test warning type and an other warning type.

According to one exemplary embodiment a base station would receive from the CBC in the WRITE REPLACE message a group trigger message which would contain a message ID in its information element. The message ID would map to a group ID which would identify MTC devices as a group. The message content may further include a group ID to further identify MTC devices as a group.

According to one exemplary embodiment in response to receiving a group trigger message from a CBC the base station would broadcast the group message content through a broadcast channel. In particular the broadcasting group message content would include a new SystemInformationBlocktype would be used in addition to existing System Information Blocks SIB such as 1 13 and the SystemInformationBlocktype would contains parameters including but not limited to a group identifier a message identifier a serial number a priority indicator a MO transmission flag. The SystemInformationBlocktype may further contain a access barring parameter which would randomize the response time of receiving UEs from the MTC group.

In addition the base station would use paging messages through a paging channel to page a group of MTC devices to alert the devices to receive broadcast messages. The paging messages may include a group trigger message indicator or trigger warning type which would points to a SystemInformationBlocktype and would differ from ETWS or CMAS indicator. The SystemInformationBlocktype would contain the group trigger message. The indicator transmitted through paging would cause a UE to listen to the proper broadcast channel to obtain the group trigger message.

Otherwise the base station may include in the paging messages a novel warning type or a group trigger message warning which differs from the aforementioned earthquakes and tsunami warning types and the MTC group message warning type would cause a UE to listen to the proper broadcast channel to obtain the MTC group message.

Accordingly the present disclosure is directed to an user equipment which is configured to receive a group trigger message indicator or a trigger warning type from a paging message. The user equipment would then be directed to the group trigger message from the system information messages from the broadcast channel.

In order to make the aforementioned features and advantages of the present disclosure comprehensible embodiments accompanied with figures are described in detail below. It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and are intended to provide further explanation of the disclosure as claimed.

It should be understood however that this summary may not contain all of the aspect and embodiments of the present disclosure and is therefore not meant to be limiting or restrictive in any manner. Also the present disclosure would include improvements and modifications which are obvious to one skilled in the art.

Reference will now be made in detail to the present preferred embodiments of the disclosure examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers are used in the drawings and the description to refer to the same or like parts.

No element act or instruction used in the detailed description of disclosed embodiments of the present application should be construed as absolutely critical or essential to the present disclosure unless explicitly described as such. Also as used herein each of the indefinite articles a and an could include more than one item. If only one item is intended the terms a single or similar languages would be used. Furthermore the terms any of followed by a listing of a plurality of items and or a plurality of categories of items as used herein are intended to include any of any combination of any multiple of and or any combination of multiples of the items and or the categories of items individually or in conjunction with other items and or other categories of items. Further as used herein the term set is intended to include any number of items including zero. Further as used herein the term number is intended to include any number including zero.

In all the drawings of the present disclosure a box enclosed by dotted lines would mean an optional functional element or an optional step and a dotted line may mean that the process flow could be optional or may not necessarily occur.

In this disclosure 3GPP like keywords or phrases are used merely as examples to present inventive concepts in accordance with the present disclosure however the same concept presented in the disclosure can be applied to any other systems such as IEEE 802.11 IEEE 802.16 WiMAX and so like by persons of ordinarily skilled in the art.

Cell broadcast can be used as a solution to trigger or send a message to a group of MTC devices when the geographic area in which the devices are located is known and or for use cases where only the subset of devices of an MTC group have to be triggered that are located in a particular geographic area. With this solution group messages may be broadcast based on a Cell Broadcast Service CBS Public Warning System PWS type solution as specified in TS 23.041.

Currently the existing CBS mechanism does not distinguish a device trigger message from a warning messages and thus sending a device trigger message through an existing warning message and delivery procedure would induce unnecessary power consumption on legacy UEs. Also when sending device trigger messages to one or more large groups of MTC devices at once the response signals from individual MTC devices could potentially overwhelm control nodes in the Radio Access Network RAN or control nodes in the Core Network CN . Also sending a device trigger message across different networks having different delivery procedures could worsen the management complexity of the MTC IWF.

Therefore the present disclosure proposes a method and apparatuses of delivering a device trigger message towards a group of MTC devices as known as a group trigger message through a Cell Broadcasting Service CBS . The method includes a MTC Machine Type Communication server transmitting to a MTC Inter working Function MTC IWF of a network a Device Trigger Request message containing group trigger information and a trigger payload. The trigger payload contains information for target triggering UE and is transparent to the network nodes e.g. MTC IWF CBC Core network nodes and RAN nodes. The group trigger information contains parameters for the delivery of the device trigger message by the network e.g. group identifier for identifying a group of MTC devices being a configured group geographical areas e.g. a cell or a group of cells a tracking area etc. where the target triggering UEs may be located etc. In response to receiving device trigger message for group triggering a network control node would page a group of UEs according to the group identifier and or geographical areas. Each paged UE in a specific geographical area would be able to receive a group message through broadcast information. A legacy UE which does not support MTC device triggering would ignore a received group message embedded in a SIB for ETWS CMAS if it does not recognize the received warning message used for group trigger message or would not understand the group message indicator and thus would not attempt to obtain the group message embedded in a corresponding System Information Block SIB . Also the CBC would send a response message such as a broadcast response message to the MTC IWF after receiving a WRITE REPLACE Response message from MME or RNC to indicate a successful delivery of the broadcast request message and thus the management complexity of the MTC IWF would be reduced since the MTC IWF does not have to distinguish group trigger deliveries between GSM UMTS and EUTRAN.

The term user equipment UE or MTC UE or MTC device in this disclosure represents embodiments that may be for example a mobile station an advanced mobile station AMS a server a client a desktop computer a laptop computer a network computer a workstation a personal digital assistant PDA a tablet personal computer PC a scanner a telephone device a pager a camera a television a hand held video game device a musical device a wireless sensor and so forth. In some applications a UE may be a fixed computer device operating in a mobile environment such as a bus train an airplane a boat a car and so forth. A UE or MTC UE or MTC device could be referred to any of the aforementioned embodiments which do not necessarily need human interactions.

For the present disclosure the SCS would deliver a Device trigger message as a group trigger message over the Tsp interface to the CN . The delivery of a group trigger message through the CBS mechanism is handled in the CN by the MTC IWF which in general is a logical construct representing MTC features or functions supported by each MNO or CN. An MTC IWF could also represent a network interface of MNO and supplies a plurality of protocols for communications between the CN and elements connected to the CN and also could represent a network interface of the CN to interconnect and intercommunicate between network elements e.g. HSS SGSN SMS SC PDN GW etc. within the CN.

The MTC IWF would include a CBE and this means that the MTC IWF would perform functions normally implement by a CBE such as formatting a received message into a message which is compatible with a CBC.

The MTC IWF is connected to a Home Subscriber Server HSS or a Home Location Register HLR which mostly stores subscriber information and is related to authentication of subscribers and servers. After receiving a device trigger message over the Tsp interface also known as a group trigger message for triggering a group of UEs The MTC IWF would authenticate the group based trigger service with the HSS HLR and delivery the group trigger message via an appropriate CBC according to the geographic location of the target MTC devices. The CBC would then authenticate the group trigger message request identify the RAN control nodes to be contacted and deliver the group trigger message to the identified RAN control nodes.

In the case of Long Term Evolution LTE communication systems the CBC would deliver the group trigger message to a Mobility Management Entity MME 106 which would deliver the group trigger message across the S1 MME interface to the eNB and then to the MTC UEs . In the case of Global System for Mobile Communications GSM the CBC would deliver the group trigger message across the CBC BSC interface to the base station controller BSC and then to the Node B and then to the MTC UE in the RAN . In the case of Universal Mobile Telephone Communication Systems UMTS the CBC would deliver the group trigger message across to U BC interface to the radio network controller RNC and then to the Node B and then to the MTC UE .

Since for an MTC IWF in evolved packet system EPS in general only Public Warning System PWS such as Earthquake Tsunami Warning System ETWS or Commercial Mobile Alert System CMAS is supported for cell broadcasting warning message via EUTRAN. This means that currently every device trigger message or group trigger message sent by the way of the CBS mechanism will be regarded as a warning message delivery for emergency notifications to the UEs. Thus the system would offer the highest priority for such notification. In order to allow the CBC or another network control node in RAN or CN to handle a group trigger message differently from a warning message the CBC or another network control node would need to have a way to be able to differentiate between a warning message and a group message.

Therefore present disclosure proposes using a new indicator a MTC group message indicator or a group trigger indicator for identifying a message as a group trigger message used for delivering a device trigger message to a group of targeting MTC devices. And the group trigger message indicator could be represented by one or more bit values a specific bit sequence or an integer value located in an information element IE in group trigger message but does not exist in the current CBS mechanism. The MTC group message indicator would be included in the group trigger message for delivery from MTC IWF to the CBC . It is noticeable that the indicator would be added in the device trigger message by the SCS and sent from the SCS to the CN across the Tsp interface by the MTC IWF and sent from MTC IWF to the CBC or by the MTC IWF if received from the HSS in responding to the interrogation of the routing information.

The group trigger message including group trigger indicator will distinguish itself from a message using for general CBS or a warning message using PWS for EWTS or CMAS. The device trigger message including the group trigger indicator would be delivered by the CN and RAN using an existing CBS PWS mechanism. For PWS mechanism in LTE when a UE receives a paging message indicated for ETWS CMAS the UE would listen to the proper broadcast channel to obtain the group trigger message from a system information block.

The group trigger indicator could be implemented using a new trigger warning type which is different from existing earthquakes and tsunami warning types to distinguish from normal warning messages in PWS for EWTS or CMAS. The PWS has currently configured with several warning types which will be referred to as normal warning types. The existing warning types are an Earthquake warning type a Tsunami warning type an Earthquake and Tsunami warning type a test warning type and an other warning type. The trigger warning type would be a new warning type and would distinguish itself from the aforementioned warning type. When a network control node in the CN or in the RAN receives the new warning type the network control node would know that the message being received or delivered is a group trigger message and is not an existing warning type. When a UE receives a paging message with a group trigger indicator IE which can be a new type or a bit to differentiate from the warning indicator of ETWS CMAS the UE would listen to the proper broadcast channel to obtain the group trigger message from a system information block.

In an exemplary embodiment a priority indicator could be implemented to indicate a priority for a group trigger message and or to a normal warning message. The priority indicator would contain a value indicating the priority level of the group trigger message and would thus assist the UE to prioritize the handling of received trigger warning message received from the broadcasting system information. The normal warning message would be configured with the highest priority.

In an exemplary embodiment a message identification ID could be used and associated with a MTC group message. All message ID s that is used for the group messaging purpose would need to be known and used by the network control nodes including the CBC the MME and the RAN control nodes to identify the group trigger message. When the message ID is received by a network control node the network control node would map the message ID to a group ID and knows that a message is a MTC group message and belongs to particular group of devices. In the case that multiple groups share the same message ID an additional group ID information could be added to further distinguish among between groups of MTC devices. In this way the UE receiving MTC group message via CBS PWS may determine whether to ignore a particular cell broadcast message based on the specificity of the message ID. Further a serial number could be added and associated to a specific message ID which identifies whether the same device trigger message is being broadcasted. Since a same message could be repeatedly broadcasted for a specified duration the serial number could distinguish one device trigger message from another.

The use of cell broadcasts for group messaging could potentially cause a flood of signalling when a high amount of devices responds to a cell broadcast group message nearly at the same time. The sudden flood of signallings may cause network congestions for both the CN and the RAN . In order to spread the responses of triggered MTC devices at nearly the same time the group trigger message may further contains IEs including a MO transmission flag and or a MO transmission time duration for target UEs. The content of the MO transmission flag and or MO transmission time duration may be set or modified by the SCS MTC IWF CBC MME or RAN node . The MO transmission flag would indicate that if the target MTC devices need to initiate a Mobile originated MO transmission in response to the received device trigger message and the UE randomizes the MO transmission locally. If the MO transmission time duration is also provided it can be used by the target UEs to randomize the MO transmission initiation time within mobile originated transmission duration for initiating a service request or attachment procedure to the RAN . In this way the network congestions could be mitigated by spreading responses of MTC UEs over time according to a randomized distribution.

Also to solve the flooding signaling caused by responding MO transmission from the triggering MTC devices the device trigger message may contains IEs an access barring parameter such as ac BarringTime ac Barring Factor ac BarringForMO Signalling or ac Barring ForMO data and etc. . . . . For example assuming that the SCS has allocated the access barring parameter ac BarringTime in the IE randomized response time window . In response to receiving a device trigger message a UE would draw a random number or rand which is uniformly distributed in the range 0 rand 1 the UE would then start the timer Tbarring during which the UE may not transmit a response signal to the RAN . The Tbarring for example could be calculated according to Tbarring x y rand ac BarringTime where x and y could be 0.7 and 0.6 respectively or other configurable values. In this way the network overload in RAN or CN could be avoided since the responses of MTC UEs would be spread out over time according to a randomized distribution.

Other procedures which is different from the existing procedure are step S and S. In step S after transmitting the broadcast request message the RNC would transmit to the CBC a WRITE REPLACE response message and also in step S the CBC would transmit to the CBE a Broadcast Response message in response to the WRITE REPLACE response message. The purpose of the WRITE REPLACE response message and the Broadcast Response message is to not only indicate successful delivery of the broadcast request message but also to allow the MTC IWF or CBE to know that the response message being received in steps S and S is from a GSM UMTS network. This reduces the complexity of the MTC IWF since the MTC IWF does not have to distinguish group trigger deliveries between GSM UMTS and EUTRAN.

Also similar to the GSM UMTS network of also differs from the existing UTRAN network in steps S and S. In step S the MME would transmit a WRITE REPLACE Complete Message to the CBC to indicate the completion of the trigger delivery in response to receiving the WRITE REPLACE WARNING Response message from eNB in step S. The WRITE REPLACE WARNING Complete in step S and the Broadcast Complete in S would reduce the complexity of MTC IWF since the MTC IWF would not have to distinguish between a GSM UMTS network and a UTRAN network.

Upon receiving a group trigger message included in the message of CBS PWS from RNC in CBS or MME in PWS the NodeB or eNB would transmit a paging message to UEs served by the NodeB eNB and the paging message would subsequently prompt UEs to listen to the broadcast messages. Further the NodeB or eNB would compose the broadcast message by including IEs obtaining from the received device trigger message.

In an exemplary embodiment the eNB sends the paging message indicating a ETWS or a CMAS indicator and would include a MTC group message indicator or a trigger warning type in a SystemInformationBlockType for ETWS CMAS. Upon receiving the ETWS CMAS indicator the UE would identify the SIBtype as a MTC group message within a SystemInformationBlockType based on the MTC group message indicator or a trigger warning type or a Message ID or a priority indicator using for MTC group message. In order words the SystemInformationBlockType would still be any of SIB10 12 reserved for ETWS CMAS and the SystemInformationBlockType would contain IEs including the MTC group message indicator or a message ID with specific values for MTC group or a message type with specific value reserved for MTC group message or a priority indicator with value reserved for MTC group. In the meantime a MO transmission flag a MO transmission duration access barring parameters as well as trigger payload may be additionally included in the existing SystemInformationBlockType reserved for ETWS CMAS.

In an exemplary embodiment the paging message sending from eNB would contain the trigger indicator which differs from a ETWS or a CMAS indicator for the ETWS CMAS. Upon receiving the paging message indicating a trigger indicator the UE would locate the SystemInformationBlockType which has not been assigned at this point in time and receive the MTC group message within the SystemInformationBlockType. For example the SystemInformationBlockType would not be any of SIB1 12 and could be a SIB13 SIB 14 or SIB15 which is not limited by the present disclosure. The new SystemInformationBlockType would contain IEs including the a group ID a message ID a serial number of the broadcasted system information message a priority indicator a MO transmission flag a MO originated transmission duration an access barring parameter and trigger payload.

MTC devices that are configured to receive broadcast messages will need to listen on the appropriate broadcast channel s for triggering messages understand the message ID s that are to be used by the application optionally understand the group identification information in the cell broadcast message body perform the appropriate action after being triggered MTC Devices need to have controlled access to avoid network overload spread out responses over time possibly according to information received in the message.

It should be noted that the indicator which indicates the nature of the device trigger message or the warning type such as the trigger warning type could be set by the MTC IWF the HSS HLR and the MTC server .

Furthermore it has been determined that using the ETWS or CMAS indicator in paging message over LTE Uu interface for delivering group message would induce higher power consumption on legacy UEs as a legacy UE being paged would always have to receive the SIB10 SIB12 associated with ETWS CMAS warning message before discarding the received CMAS ETWS messages if the message has a message ID which is not in UEs search list. Consequently more power consumption is then induced on the legacy UEs. However if a new indicator pointing to a new SIB is adopted legacy UEs would not require high power consumption since a legacy UE not being able to understand device triggering would not read the System Information.

The processing circuit would be configured to process digital signal and to perform procedures of the proposed method in accordance with exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure. Also the processing circuit would be electrically coupled to a memory circuit which stores programming codes codebook configurations buffered data or record configurations assigned by the processing circuit . The functions of the processing circuit could be implemented using programmable units such as a micro processor a micro controller a DSP chips FPGA etc. The functions of the processing circuit may also be implemented with separate electronic devices or ICs.

In view of the aforementioned descriptions the present disclosure is able to trigger groups of MTC devices by using an existing network infrastructure reduce power consumption on legacy UEs reduce network congestions in the RAN network control nodes or CN control nodes and reduce the management complexity of the MTC IWF when facing different network delivery procedures.

It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications and variations can be made to the structure of the disclosed embodiments without departing from the scope or spirit of the disclosure. In view of the foregoing it is intended that the disclosure cover modifications and variations of this disclosure provided they fall within the scope of the following claims and their equivalents.

Moreover the claims should not be read as limited to the described order or elements unless stated to that effect. In addition use of the term means in any claim is intended to invoke 35 U.S.C. 112 6 and any claim without the word means is not so intended.

