---

title: Systems and methods for regulating device usage
abstract: A device is provided, comprising at least one processor and at least one computer-readable storage medium having encoded thereon executable instructions that, when executed, cause the at least one processor to: monitor a user's usage of the device; in response to determining that an amount of time the user has been using the device has reached a selected limit for usage time, activate a home screen application to restrict the user's access to the device, wherein the home screen application is programmed to prompt the user to demonstrate at least one achievement; and in response to determining that the user successfully demonstrated at least one achievement, allow the user to regain access to the device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09369537&OS=09369537&RS=09369537
owner: Lock2Learn, LLC
number: 09369537
owner_city: Flemington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150513
---
This Application is a continuation claiming the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. application Ser. No. 14 675 437 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR REGULATING DEVICE USAGE filed on Mar. 31 2015 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Computing devices such as network enabled mobile devices have become ubiquitous and have greatly improved people s ability to access information and communicate with each other and have become powerful tools for learning and collaboration. However computing devices can also be used in less productive ways. For instance some users in many cases children spend an inordinate amount of time each day on social media online games etc. Such abuses may be detrimental to the users physical mental and social health.

In some embodiments a device is provided comprising at least one processor and at least one computer readable storage medium having encoded thereon executable instructions that when executed cause the at least one processor to monitor a user s usage of the device in response to determining that an amount of time the user has been using the device has reached a selected limit for usage time activate a home screen application to restrict the user s access to the device wherein the home screen application is programmed to prompt the user to demonstrate at least one achievement and in response to determining that the user successfully demonstrated at least one achievement allow the user to regain access to the device.

In some embodiments a method is provided performed by at least one processor of a device the at least one processor being programmed by executable instructions encoded on at least one computer readable storage medium of the device the method comprising monitoring a user s usage of the device in response to determining that an amount of time the user has been using the device has reached a selected limit for usage time activating a home screen application to restrict the user s access to the device wherein the home screen application is programmed to prompt the user to demonstrate at least one achievement and in response to determining that the user successfully demonstrated at least one achievement allowing the user to regain access to the device.

In some embodiments at least one computer readable storage medium is provided having encoded thereon executable instructions that when executed by at least one processor cause the at least one processor to perform a method comprising monitoring a user s usage of the device in response to determining that an amount of time the user has been using the device has reached a selected limit for usage time activating a home screen application to restrict the user s access to the device wherein the home screen application is programmed to prompt the user to demonstrate at least one achievement and in response to determining that the user successfully demonstrated at least one achievement allowing the user to regain access to the device.

Parents and educators have long recognized that children of all ages are prone to spending too much time on electronic activities conducted on devices such as smartphones and tablets. Some parents simply forbid the use of such devices but that approach is becoming increasingly impractical because of a growing social expectation among children especially older children that friends are to be in touch with each other all the time e.g. via text messages social media services etc. . Furthermore more and more schools have adopted educational technologies that require students to access materials and or complete exercises online so that the inability to access the Internet anytime anywhere can become a handicap in academic learning.

The inventors have recognized and appreciated a need for techniques for regulating the usage of electronic devices such as smartphones and tablets. Accordingly in some embodiments techniques are provided for selectively allowing usage of an electronic device for example in a manner determined by an administrator such as a parent.

In some embodiments software may be provided which when executed monitors an amount of time a user has been using an electronic device. Once the usage time reaches a certain limit the software may operate to lock the electronic device. In some embodiments the usage time limit may be set by an administrator e.g. parent .

Once locked the device may be unlocked in a number of different ways. For instance the inventors have recognized and appreciated that the administrator e.g. parent may wish to impose one or more conditions on the continued usage of the device. Accordingly in some embodiments the user may be required to demonstrate one or more achievements in order to regain access to the device.

In some embodiments the user may be prompted to answer one or more questions and may be allowed to continue using the device if at least some threshold number or fraction of the questions are answer correctly. The threshold number or fraction may be chosen by the administrator e.g. parent . In some embodiments the administrator may impose no limit on the number of questions the user may attempt to answer. In some embodiments the administrator may require that all questions or at least X out of Y questions be correctly answered for any suitable X 1 2 3 4 5 . . . and Y 1 2 3 4 5 6 . . . .

In some embodiments the questions may be adapted to measure the user s academic achievement and or aptitude. A question bank may be provided and the administrator may select one or more questions from the question bank to be answered by the user. The question bank may be organized in any suitable way including but not limited to by grade level study subject e.g. mathematics science literature English language foreign language history etc. and or area of focus within a subject level of difficulty e.g. easy medium hard etc. question type e.g. multiple choice short answer essay etc. and or target skill e.g. reading comprehension logical reasoning quantitative reasoning analytical writing persuasive writing etc. .

In some embodiments the administrator may specify one or more parameters for question selection such as the user s grade level one or more study subjects and or areas of focus level of difficulty question type and or target skill. The one or more parameters may be used to select one or more questions to be answered by the user. For instance in some embodiments the one or more questions may be selected randomly from all questions matching the one or more parameters. In some embodiments questions already answered by the user may be marked as such and may be removed from the pool of candidate questions for that user either indefinitely or for some period of time e.g. one week two weeks three weeks one month two months three months etc. . In some embodiments only questions answered correctly by the user may be removed from the pool of candidate questions for that user.

Alternatively or additionally the administrator may browse through the question bank and select one or more questions or one or more categories of questions from which one or more questions are to be drawn and presented to the user.

The inventors have recognized and appreciated that an electronic device may be sometimes be used without a network connection. For example a user may use a device in a signal dead spot. Therefore it may be desirable to maintain a question bank locally on the device so that questions may be available even when the device is offline. For instance in some embodiments one or more questions may be retrieved from a remote source e.g. a web service and stored in a local database. Such a retrieval may take place in any suitable manner. For example a retrieval may take place during a setup phase of a software application that manages device locking. Alternatively or additionally the software application may request questions from the remote source periodically e.g. every day two days . . . every week two weeks . . . every month two months . . . etc. . Furthermore a user or administrator may at any time request updated questions. If a network connection is not available at the time of a scheduled or requested update the software application may monitor the device s connection status and initiate a download of questions as soon as a connection becomes available.

In some embodiments software may be provided to analyze answers submitted by the user. One or more inferences may be made for example that the user needs improvement in a certain subject area of focus target skill etc. Such inferences may be used to bias the automatic selection of questions. For instance for a user who appears to find mathematics challenging more mathematics questions may be presented. Alternatively or additionally easier mathematics questions may be presented initially and the level of difficulty may be increased gradually e.g. based on the progress made by the user .

It should be appreciated that aspects of the present disclosure are not limited to the presentation of questions by a software application that manages device locking. In some embodiments a user may demonstrate achievement by completing one or more questions or other types of learning tasks via a separate software application. For example the separate application may provide one or more electronic tokens to the user upon successful completion of one or more learning tasks and the users may submit the one or more tokens to unlock the device. Alternatively or additionally the application that manages device locking may interface with the application that administers learning tasks to verify that the user has completed the one or more learning tasks.

Furthermore it should be appreciated that aspects of the present disclosure are not limited to the use of academic achievements as conditions for continued usage of a device. In some embodiments a user may demonstrate one or more non academic achievements to regain access to a device. For example the user may submit evidence of completion of one or more activities such as music practice sports practice community service household chore etc. The evidence may be in any suitable form including but not limited to photo video audio recording electronic token etc. A timestamp may be checked to ascertain that the evidence is credible. Furthermore in some embodiments the user may be able to continue using the device only if the one or more activities belong to one or more activity categories approved by an administrator e.g. parent .

The inventors have recognized and appreciated that it may be desirable to allow an administrator to control not only whether a user may access a device but also what the user may have access to on the device. For instance a parent may wish to make educational games available to a young child without making available violent games that are also installed on the device. Accordingly in some embodiments software may be provided to allow an administrator to specify and or enforce one or more access policies. For example an access policy may include a list of one or more third party and or native applications that a user is allowed to access and or a list of one or more third party and or native applications that a user is not allowed to access.

In some embodiments an access policy may include one or more restrictions placed on an approved third party or native application. As discussed above the inventors have recognized and appreciated that electronic devices may be used not only for entertainment or social interaction purposes but also for educational purposes and therefore an administrator may wish to place different restrictions on different third party and or native applications. For instance in some embodiments an administrator may be able to specify a different usage time limit for each third party or native application. For example the administrator may specify a one hour limit for an educational game and a 30 minute limit for a social media service so that a user may play the educational game for an hour before being locked out of the device but may use the social media service for only 30 minutes before being locked out.

Alternatively or additionally the administrator may be able to group third party and or native applications into multiple categories. In one example the administrator may be able to create a category of one or more third party and or native applications e.g. tools needed for homework assignments tutoring etc. that a user may use indefinitely without being locked out. In another example the administrator may be able to create a category of one or more third party and or native applications e.g. educational games that a user may use for a longer period of time e.g. 60 minutes 75 minutes 90 minutes 105 minutes 120 minutes etc. and a different category of one or more third party and or native applications e.g. games purely for entertainment that a user may use for a shorter period of time e.g. 2 minutes 3 minutes 5 minutes 10 minutes 15 minutes 30 minutes 45 minutes 60 minutes etc. Within each category the usage time for determining when to lock a device may be cumulative e.g. a timer will continue to run if the user switches from one application to another application in the same category .

The inventors have recognized and appreciated that some electronic devices may be shared by multiple users e.g. siblings living in the same household and the users may have different needs. Accordingly in some embodiments software may be provided to allow an administrator to establish different profiles for different users. When a particular user logs on to a device a profile corresponding to that user may be activated and the device may be managed according to the activated profile. For example an administrator may specify for each user a different usage time limit e.g. a period of time after which the user is expected to demonstrate an achievement to continue using the device different grade level different set of one or more study subjects for which questions are to be presented different list of one or more approved third party and or native applications etc.

The inventors have further appreciated that in an embodiment in which a user is required to answer one or more questions to unlock a device it may be desirable to provide to an administrator information relating to the user s performance. Accordingly in some embodiments a report may be generated for a user and made available to an administrator. If multiple user profiles have been established a separate report may be generated for each user or an aggregate repot may be generated for multiple users selected by the administrator.

In some embodiments a report may be generated periodically e.g. every week two weeks three weeks every month two months three months etc. or as requested by the administrator. Furthermore the report may be based on answers provided by the user over some suitable period of time e.g. the past week two weeks three weeks month two months three months etc. and may show the user s progress over that period of time. The progress may be overall progress or progress with respect to a certain study subject area of focus target skill etc. The period of time covered by the report and or the type of progress shown in the report may be specified by the administrator.

In some embodiments a report may additionally or alternatively include information relating to a user s usage of a device. For instance an administrator may request a report showing total usage over some suitable period of time e.g. the past day two days . . . week two weeks . . . month two months . . . etc. and or the usage over that period of time broken down by hour day week month etc. Additionally or alternatively an administrator may request a report on the usage over the same period of time but broken down by third party or native application and or by category of third party and or native applications.

It should be appreciated that the concepts introduced above and discussed in greater detail below may be implemented in any of numerous ways as the disclosed concepts are not limited to any particular manner of implementation. The examples shown in the figures and described herein are provided solely for illustrative purposes.

The inventors have recognized and appreciated various technical challenges in implementing a software application that selectively allows usage of an electronic device. Some of these technical challenges are described below in connection with .

It should be appreciated that the device is merely illustrative and that the inventive concepts described herein may be implemented on different types of devices. For example aspects of the present disclosure are not limited to the particular combination of buttons shown in . Furthermore any suitable types of buttons may be used such as touch sensitive buttons e.g. with capacitive or resistive sensing push buttons and or software buttons.

The inventors have recognized and appreciated that for security reasons some operating systems may be designed to prevent a software application from locking a device. For instance a rogue application may be programmed to hijack a device by not presenting any user interface option for exiting. An operating system may be programmed to allow a user to exit a rogue application by pressing a reserved button e.g. the home button or back button of the illustrative device shown in . To prevent the rogue application from disabling the reserved button the application programming interface API exposed by the operating system may be such that there is no way for a third party application to change the behavior of the reserved button.

The inventors have recognized and appreciated that a user of the illustrative device may be able to circumvent a lock set up by an administrator by using a reserved button e.g. the home button or back button to exit the software application that manages device locking even though the locking is implemented for legitimate reasons. The inventors have further appreciated that a potential solution is to modify the operating system API to allow third party applications to change the behavior of the reserved button but that solution may make the device more vulnerable to attacks by rogue applications. Accordingly it may be desirable to implement locking without modifying the operating system API.

The inventors have recognized and appreciated that some operating systems e.g. an Android operating system may expose a different API to a home screen e.g. a launcher for a device running an Android operating system compared to other applications. In some embodiments a home screen may be an application that when a user logs on to a device presents a screen displaying one or more third party and or native applications that are available on the device. For example a home screen may include a grid or list view of the available applications and the home screen may be responsible for starting an application selected by the user. An operating system may include a default home screen and or a custom home screen developed by a third party may be installed on a device.

The inventors have recognized and appreciated that home screens have conventionally been developed to create a look and feel of a device to suit a user s taste. By contrast in some embodiments a home screen is provided to allow an administrator to control how a user uses a device e.g. by implementing device locking displaying only approved applications etc. .

In the example shown in the device the computer and the one or more servers may be configured to communicate with each other via one or more networks . For example the device may include one or more communication interfaces configured to transmit and or receive data via the one or more networks . Any suitable communication protocol or combination of communication protocols may be used by one or more communication interfaces as aspects of the present disclosure are not limited to the use of any particular communication technology.

In some embodiments the device may be configured to receive input from and or provide output to a user via one or more user interfaces not shown . The one or more user interfaces may include a keyboard interface a touchscreen interface a speech interface any combination thereof e.g. a multimodal interface and or any other user interfaces. As one example a touchscreen interface may be used to present various user interface elements such as buttons menus scrollbars etc. and may be configured to recognize various touchscreen gestures. The touchscreen interface may also be used to emulate a keyboard interface. As another example the one or more user interfaces may include a microphone for capturing user speech and the captured speech may be processed by an automatic speech recognition engine not shown configured to convert input speech into text. As another example the one or more user interfaces may include a speaker to play audio such as recorded or synthesized speech.

Furthermore the one or more user interfaces may provide output to a user in one or more different modes such as visual audible and or tactile. As one example the one or more user interfaces may be capable of displaying text and or graphical images to the user. As another example the one or more user interfaces may be capable of rendering an audible signal e.g. synthesized and or recorded speech and or a tactile signal. Any suitable combination of input and or output modes may be used as aspects of the present disclosure are not limited to any particular mode of interaction with the user.

In the example shown in the device includes an operating system and one or more applications . The device may further include a home screen from which the one or more applications may be started. For example in some embodiments the operating system may be an Android operating system and the home screen may be a launcher. However it should be appreciated that aspects of the present disclosure are not limited to the use of an Android operating system.

In some embodiments the device may include a usage control application for selectively allowing usage of the device . The usage control application may use any one or more of the techniques described herein. For example the usage control application may include a controlled home screen which may be enabled when an administrator activates a controlled mode and may be disabled when the controlled mode is deactivated. Once enabled the controlled home screen may require the user to answer one or more questions to gain access to the device . Alternatively or additionally the controlled home screen may only allow the user to start applications that are approved by the administrator.

In some embodiments one or more questions presented by the controlled home screen to the user may be retrieved from a local storage of the device . Alternatively or additionally one or more questions may be retrieved from the network storage for example by submitting a request to the one or more servers via the one or more networks .

The local storage and or network storage may be implemented in any suitable manner. For instances in some embodiments the local storage may include an SQLite database configured to store questions and or any other suitable data.

The inventors have recognized and appreciated that it may be desirable to incorporate images into some questions but doing so may increase the size of the storage space needed to store the questions. Accordingly in some embodiments only textual content of the questions is stored in the local storage and image content may be retrieved as needed from the network storage . The local storage may store some questions that do not require image retrieval so that questions may be presented even when there is no network connection. However it should be appreciated aspects of the present disclosure are not limited to the storage of images in the network storage as in some embodiments both textual content and image content may be stored in the local storage .

In some embodiments the usage control application may store one or more assessment results e.g. number of questions answered correctly or incorrectly by the user in the local storage and or transmit the one or more results to the one or more servers for processing and or storage in the network storage . Results that have been transmitted to the network storage may be marked as such in the local storage so that the results are not transmitted again. In some embodiments the local storage and the network storage may be synchronized. If the device is offline when the user provides the results a synchronization service may check for network connectivity and perform a synchronization operation when the network becomes available.

In some embodiments the one or more servers may use the one or more results received from the device to generate a report on the performance of the user and may make the report available to the administrator. For example the one or more servers may provide a web portal through which the administrator may access the report. The administrator may access the web portal from any suitable device such as the computer and or the device .

In some embodiments communication with the web portal provided by the one or more servers may be secured. For example one or more cryptographic protocols such as Transport Layer Security TLS Secure Sockets Layer SSL etc. may be used to provide one or more forms of security such as secrecy confidentiality integrity authentication etc. In some embodiments the web portal may provide the only way to access the network storage . For example the network storage may include a cloud database that is not public accessible. To communicate with the cloud database e.g. to retrieve textual and or image content for a question to store an assessment result to access a report etc. the usage control application may establish a secured e.g. encrypted connection with the web portal. The inventors have recognized and appreciated that it may be desirable to protect user information by securing communication between the usage control application and the web portal. However it should be appreciated that aspects of the present disclosure are not limited to the use of any particular security protocol or any security protocol at all.

In some embodiments the device may be shared by a plurality of users and the administrator may wish to control usage for at least two of the users. The usage control application may allow the administrator to establish separate profiles for such users. For example information pertaining to a particular user e.g. usage restrictions and or assessment results may be stored in association with the profile of that user. In this manner the administrator may define different usage restrictions and or request separate reports for the users.

In some embodiments a user may interact with one or more devices not shown other than the device . For example the user may use different devices at different locations e.g. school home etc. or the user may receive a replacement device when a device is lost. Each of the other devices may also have an instance of the usage control application installed thereon which may be linked to the same account e.g. by logging in using the same credentials established during an account setup process .

The one or more servers may be configured to aggregate results received from multiple devices for the same user e.g. results associated with the same user profile . In this manner a report generated for a user may take into account activities conducted by the user on multiple devices. However it should be appreciated that aspects of the present disclosure are not limited to the generation of reports by the one or more servers as reports may alternatively or additionally be generated by the device using information stored in the local storage and or information retrieved from the network storage via the one or more networks .

It should be appreciated that the various components of the system shown in and described above are merely illustrative. The inventive concepts disclosed herein may be implemented in any suitable manner using any suitable device or combination of devices and do not require any particular component or arrangement of components. For instance in some embodiments device locking may be implemented without using a home screen.

In some embodiments after installing and launching the usage control application the administrator may be prompted by the usage control application to complete a setup process. shows an illustrative entry screen A for a setup process in accordance with some embodiments. The screen A may prompt the administrator to provide one or more pieces of information. For example the screen A may include a text field or any other suitable combination of one or more user interface elements for entering contact information. Examples of contact information include but are not limited to email address phone number and or postal address. In some embodiments one or more pieces of contact information e.g. email or phone number may also be used as an identifier for an account established for the administrator.

In some embodiments the screen A may additionally include a text field or any other suitable combination of one or more user interface elements for establishing one or more login credentials for the administrator. In the example shown in the one or more login credentials include a password. If the administrator forgets the password a password recovery process may be initiated for example by prompting the administrator to provide authenticating information. Upon successful completion of the password recovery process the password or a new temporary password may be provided to the administrator e.g. sent to the email address entered into the text field .

It should be appreciated that one or more other types of credentials may be used in addition to or instead of a password. For example in some embodiments the administrator may provide some suitable biometric information such as voiceprint fingerprint iris scan etc. It should also be appreciated that the screen A may prompt the administrator for any suitable combination of information items in addition to or instead of the illustrative information items discussed above. For example in some embodiments the administrator may be required to provide a minimum set of information items e.g. email and password but may have the option of providing additional information such as demographic information.

In the example shown in once the administrator has provided all of the required information items the administrator may activate a button to proceed to a next screen in the setup process such as the illustrative screen B shown in . The screen B may prompt the administrator to establish a profile for a user whose device usage is to be controlled. For example the screen B may include a text field or any other suitable combination of one or more user interface elements for entering the user s name. In some embodiments the screen B may additionally include a button for taking or uploading a photo of the user.

In the example shown in once the administrator has provided the user s name and or photo the administrator may activate a button to proceed to a next screen in the setup process such as the illustrative screen C shown in . The screen C may prompt the administrator to provide information regarding the user for whom the profile is being established. As one example the screen C may include a menu or any other suitable combination of one or more user interface elements for indicating whether the profile is to be activated. As another example the screen C may include a menu or any other suitable combination of one or more user interface elements for indicating a grade level for the user e.g. pre school kindergarten first grade second grade third grade fourth grade fifth grade sixth grade seven grade eighth grade ninth grade tenth grade eleventh grade or twelve grade . As another example the screen C may include a list of selectable study subjects. Examples of study subjects include but are not limited to mathematics science literature English language foreign language and or history. The administrator may also make available additional questions in each study subject for example by activating a button corresponding to a desired subject e.g. a button for additional questions in mathematics .

Alternatively or additionally the screen C may include a text field or any other suitable combination of one or more user interface elements for entering one or more search terms to be used in searching for matching question categories such as grade level study subject area of focus within a subject level of difficulty question type target skill etc. The administrator may select any combination of one or more question categories from which questions are to be drawn e.g. randomly or based on the user s progress .

In some embodiments the screen D may include a menu or any other suitable combination of one or more user interface elements for indicating a usage time limit e.g. 2 minutes 3 minutes 5 minutes 10 minutes . . . .

In some embodiments the screen D may prompt the administrator to indicate reporting presences. For example the screen D may include a menu or any other suitable combination of one or more user interface elements for indicating a reporting frequency e.g. every week two weeks three weeks every month two months three months etc. . Additionally the administrator may be prompted to select a delivery method from a list of available delivery methods e.g email text message etc .

In some embodiments the administrator may activate a button on the screen E to complete the setup process which may bring the administrator to the illustrative screen F shown in . The screen F may be an updated version of the screen B where the newly created profile is displayed in a list of existing profiles. The administrator may choose to create another profile update an existing profile or activate a button to turn on a controlled mode.

It should be appreciated that the setup process shown in and described above is merely illustrative as a setup process may be implemented in other manners e.g. with different steps different ordering of steps different arrangement of user interface elements etc. . Furthermore it should be appreciated that a setup process may be performed from a computer that is different from the device on which usage is to be controlled. For example the administrator may complete a setup process from any computer e.g. the illustrative computer shown in via a web portal or other interface e.g. an interface provided by the illustrative one or more servers shown in .

In some embodiments the screen A may prompt a user to select a profile from a list of available profiles. After selecting a profile the user may be presented with a next screen such as the illustrative screen B shown in . The screen B may present a question and prompt the user to provide an answer. The question may be selected based on the profile the user identified at the screen A. After answering the question the user may activate the button to have the answer evaluated. If the user provided a correct answer and the number of correct answers has reached a required threshold then the user may proceed to a next screen such as the illustrative screen C shown in . Otherwise the user may receive a next question on an updated version of the screen B.

In some embodiments a user may be prompted to enter a password after selecting a profile. However that is not required as in some embodiments a user may proceed to demonstrate an achievement without having to enter a password. The inventors have recognized and appreciated that it may be difficult for some users e.g. young children to remember passwords and therefore it may be desirable not to require any password. The inventors have further recognized and appreciated that a user may be discouraged from selecting another user s profile because each user may be associated with a different set of approved applications. For example a 10 year old child may be discouraged from selecting a 5 year old child s profile because the 5 year old child may not be allowed to access applications of interest to the 10 year old child.

In some embodiments each question may have an associated period of time by which the user is expected to provide a response. For example the questions may be practice questions for a standardized examination e.g. a statewide assessment examination a school admission examination etc. and the user may be given an amount of time that comparable to the amount of time that would be available during an administration of such an examination. In some embodiments the administrator may be able to select how the questions are timed. For example each question may be timed individually and or a group of questions may be timed collectively.

In some embodiments the screen B may provide one or more additional options. As one example the screen B may include a button which may be activated by the user to make an emergency communication e.g. call text email etc. The emergency communication may be directed to one or more designated persons who may or may not be administrators and or authorities e.g. 911 police department fire department etc. . As another example the screen B may include a button and the administrator may override the lock by activating the button which may trigger a prompt for one or more administrator credentials e.g. a password established by the administrator during a setup process such as the illustrative setup process shown in . If a matching credential is provided the controlled mode may be disabled and the device may return to a non controlled mode home screen e.g. the illustrative home screen shown in from which all third party and or native applications may be available. Alternatively the device may return to the screen F where the administrator may add a new profile update an existing profile or activate a button to return to a non controlled mode home screen.

It should also be appreciated that in some embodiments a user may regain access to a device without answering a question. As one example the user may be required to wait for a selected period of time before being able to regain access in addition to or instead of demonstrating an achievement. The wait time may be specified by an administrator e.g. parent . As another example the administrator may specify one or more time intervals during which usage is not permitted e.g. dinner time weekday evenings past a certain time etc. and the user may be required to wait until the expiration of such a time interval. As yet another example the administrator may specify a limit on the total amount of usage for each day and the user may be required wait until the next day once that limit has been reached.

In some embodiments a timer may be set when the user reaches the screen C and launches an application from the list e.g. by correctly answering a required number of the questions presented on the screen B . The timer may be set according to a usage time limit e.g. 2 minutes 3 minutes 5 minutes 10 minutes 15 minutes 30 minutes 45 minutes 60 minutes etc. stored in the profile the user identified at the screen A. When the timer runs out the usage control application may operate to lock the device and present the screen B to the user again.

The inventors have recognized and appreciated that a user may experience a greater sense of freedom by not being required to demonstrate an achievement e.g. not being required to answer questions when logging on to a device initially. Accordingly in some embodiments a user may be required to answer one or more questions only after an appropriate usage time limit has been reached. In such an embodiment when logging on to the device initially the user may be able to bypass the screen B and proceed directly to the screen C after selecting a profile from the screen A.

In some embodiments when the user closes an application selected and launched from the screen C the user may be taken to the screen C. In this matter the user is able to select and launch only the approved applications shown on the screen C. As discussed above the screen C may be presented by a home screen e.g. a launcher for an Android operating system so that the user may be unable to exit the screen C using a home or back button of the device. Implementing the screen C as a home screen may also allow the usage control application to prevent the user from accessing system settings or performing system area operations. For example an Android device may ordinarily allow a user to access one or more operating system settings via a notification area which may be accessed by swiping from top to bottom on any screen showing a wheel icon on the top right. In some embodiments in response to detecting such an attempt or another type of attempt to access an operating system setting the usage control application may be activated to block the attempted access. In this manner the user may be prevented from modifying device settings and or from deleting an app such as the usage control application. In some embodiments the usage control application may be brought to the foreground to inform the user that operating system access is not allowed. In some embodiments a software service is provided that runs constantly on the device e.g. in the background and checks whether the device is in a controlled mode. If the device is a controlled mode the software service may query a resource manager on the device to identify which applications are running and may selectively kill applications that are not approved according to the user s profile. Furthermore if the user is somehow able to close the usage control application the service may prevent the user from performing any action and may immediately restart the usage control application.

In some embodiments the background service may be programmed to listen for an event indicative of one or more actions being taken by a user on a device. For example the background service may listen for an onWindowsFocusChanged event which may be fired when any action is taken or when a new app is opened. In response to detecting an onWindowsFocusChanged event the background service may check whether the device is in a controlled mode. If the device is in a controlled mode the background service may check whether the user has demonstrated one or more achievements e.g. by answering one or more questions correctly . If the user has not demonstrated the requisite one or more achievements the background service may forcefully bring the usage control application to the foreground and take any app that the user tried to open to the background.

In some embodiments usage may be tracked by obtaining a first timestamp when a user starts an application from the screen C and a second timestamp when the user closes the application and returns to the screen C. The two timestamps may then compared to determine a usage duration. Alternatively or additionally a resource manager may be queried to determine which applications are running at any given time. The usage data thus obtained may be used to generate a report to the administrator.

It should be appreciated that the unlocking process shown in and described above is merely illustrative as an unlocking process may be implemented in other manners e.g. with different steps different ordering of steps different arrangement of user interface elements etc. .

As used herein a mobile device may be any computing device that is sufficiently small so that it may be carried by a user e.g. held in a hand of the user . Examples of mobile devices include but are not limited to mobile phones pagers portable media players e book readers handheld game consoles personal digital assistants PDAs and tablet computers. In some instances the weight of a mobile device may be at most one pound one and a half pounds or two pounds and or the largest dimension of a mobile device may be at most six inches nine inches or one foot. Additionally a mobile device may include features that enable the user to use the device at diverse locations. For example a mobile device may include a power storage e.g. battery so that it may be used for some duration without being plugged into a power outlet. As another example a mobile device may include a wireless network interface configured to provide a network connection without being physically connected to a network connection point.

In the embodiment shown in the computer includes a processing unit having one or more processors and a non transitory computer readable storage medium that may include for example volatile and or non volatile memory. The memory may store one or more instructions to program the processing unit to perform any of the functions described herein. The computer may also include other types of non transitory computer readable medium such as storage e.g. one or more disk drives in addition to the system memory . The storage may also store one or more application programs and or resources used by application programs e.g. software libraries which may be loaded into the memory .

The computer may have one or more input devices and or output devices such as devices and illustrated in . These devices can be used among other things to present a user interface. Examples of output devices that can be used to provide a user interface include printers or display screens for visual presentation of output and speakers or other sound generating devices for audible presentation of output. Examples of input devices that can be used for a user interface include keyboards and pointing devices such as mice touch pads and digitizing tablets. As another example the input devices may include a microphone for capturing audio signals and the output devices may include a display screen for visually rendering and or a speaker for audibly rendering recognized text.

As shown in the computer may also comprise one or more network interfaces e.g. the network interface to enable communication via various networks e.g. the network . Examples of networks include a local area network or a wide area network such as an enterprise network or the Internet. Such networks may be based on any suitable technology and may operate according to any suitable protocol and may include wireless networks wired networks or fiber optic networks.

Having thus described several aspects of at least one embodiment it is to be appreciated that various alterations modifications and improvements will readily occur to those skilled in the art. Such alterations modifications and improvements are intended to be within the spirit and scope of the present disclosure. Accordingly the foregoing description and drawings are by way of example only.

The above described embodiments of the present disclosure can be implemented in any of numerous ways. For example the embodiments may be implemented using hardware software or a combination thereof. When implemented in software the software code can be executed on any suitable processor or collection of processors whether provided in a single computer or distributed among multiple computers.

Also the various methods or processes outlined herein may be coded as software that is executable on one or more processors that employ any one of a variety of operating systems or platforms. Additionally such software may be written using any of a number of suitable programming languages and or programming or scripting tools and also may be compiled as executable machine language code or intermediate code that is executed on a framework or virtual machine.

In this respect the concepts disclosed herein may be embodied as a non transitory computer readable medium or multiple computer readable media e.g. a computer memory one or more floppy discs compact discs optical discs magnetic tapes flash memories circuit configurations in Field Programmable Gate Arrays or other semiconductor devices or other non transitory tangible computer storage medium encoded with one or more programs that when executed on one or more computers or other processors perform methods that implement the various embodiments of the present disclosure discussed above. The computer readable medium or media can be transportable such that the program or programs stored thereon can be loaded onto one or more different computers or other processors to implement various aspects of the present disclosure as discussed above.

The terms program or software are used herein in a generic sense to refer to any type of computer code or set of computer executable instructions that can be employed to program a computer or other processor to implement various aspects of the present disclosure as discussed above. Additionally it should be appreciated that according to one aspect of this embodiment one or more computer programs that when executed perform methods of the present disclosure need not reside on a single computer or processor but may be distributed in a modular fashion amongst a number of different computers or processors to implement various aspects of the present disclosure.

Computer executable instructions may be in many forms such as program modules executed by one or more computers or other devices. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the program modules may be combined or distributed as desired in various embodiments.

Also data structures may be stored in computer readable media in any suitable form. For simplicity of illustration data structures may be shown to have fields that are related through location in the data structure. Such relationships may likewise be achieved by assigning storage for the fields with locations in a computer readable medium that conveys relationship between the fields. However any suitable mechanism may be used to establish a relationship between information in fields of a data structure including through the use of pointers tags or other mechanisms that establish relationship between data elements.

Various features and aspects of the present disclosure may be used alone in any combination of two or more or in a variety of arrangements not specifically discussed in the embodiments described in the foregoing and is therefore not limited in its application to the details and arrangement of components set forth in the foregoing description or illustrated in the drawings. For example aspects described in one embodiment may be combined in any manner with aspects described in other embodiments.

Also the concepts disclosed herein may be embodied as a method of which an example has been provided. The acts performed as part of the method may be ordered in any suitable way. Accordingly embodiments may be constructed in which acts are performed in an order different than illustrated which may include performing some acts simultaneously even though shown as sequential acts in illustrative embodiments.

Use of ordinal terms such as first second third etc. in the claims to modify a claim element does not by itself connote any priority precedence or order of one claim element over another or the temporal order in which acts of a method are performed but are used merely as labels to distinguish one claim element having a certain name from another element having a same name but for use of the ordinal term to distinguish the claim elements.

Also the phraseology and terminology used herein is for the purpose of description and should not be regarded as limiting. The use of including comprising having containing involving and variations thereof herein is meant to encompass the items listed thereafter and equivalents thereof as well as additional items.

