---

title: Repository-based print services
abstract: An approach is provided for a service provider to identify documents to include in a client's repository and for the client to print the documents from the client's repository. In an embodiment, a computing device receives authentication information identifying a first user, receives first user information identifying a second user, receives information indicating selection of a one or more particular documents, from a set of one or more documents, and sends document information that at least identifies the one or more particular documents to a repository associated with the second user. A printing device receives second user information identifying the second user, and, in response to receiving the second user information, retrieves the one or more particular documents from the repository based, at least in part, on the second user information. The printing device processes at least one document of the one or more particular documents for printing.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09329823&OS=09329823&RS=09329823
owner: Ricoh Company, Ltd.
number: 09329823
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20150406
---
This application claims the benefit as a Continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 620 618 filed Sep. 14 2012 which will issue as U.S. Pat. No. 9 001 362 on Apr. 7 2015 titled REPOSITORY BASED PRINT SERVICES the entire contents of which is hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein under 35 U.S.C. 120. The applicant s hereby rescind any disclaimer of claim scope in the parent application or the prosecution history thereof and advise the USPTO that the claims in this application may be broader than any claim in the parent application.

The present invention relates to repository based print services and more specifically to a service provider identifying documents to include in a client s print repository and the client printing the documents from the client s repository.

Many times an individual or entity that provides services service provider to clients must explain detailed concepts to the clients in a limited amount of time. For example a doctor has a short allotted appointment time in which to explain to a patient medical diagnoses usage and side effects of prescribed medicines exercises targeted to aid in a patent s condition etc. As a further example a financial professional has a short allotted appointment time in which to explain the implications of certain financial tools the options that a person has to grow their retirement fund etc. As yet a further example an auto mechanic has a limited amount of time to explain suggested fixes or upkeep procedures for a client s automobile comparisons of certain products for the client s automobile etc. There are many examples of service providers that are expected to explain relatively complex concepts to clients in a short amount of time.

It can be challenging for a service provider to communicate all of the needed information to a client during the client s allotted time. Even if a service provider has time to thoroughly explain needed information to a client the client can be overwhelmed by such a conversation and forget key pieces of information. To aid in the communication of needed information a service provider may have certain pre printed information on hand to give to a client for the client to read on her own time. However such pre printed information can include information that is not tailored to an individual client s situation which may overwhelm the client and dissuade the client from reading all of the printed information. It would be beneficial to provide a mechanism by which a provider of services may easily provide detailed information to a client that is tailored to the client s particular needs.

The approaches described in this section are approaches that could be pursued but not necessarily approaches that have been previously conceived or pursued. Therefore unless otherwise indicated it should not be assumed that any of the approaches described in this section qualify as prior art merely by virtue of their inclusion in this section.

An approach is provided for a service provider to identify documents to send to a client s repository and for the client to print the documents from the client s repository. In an embodiment a computing device is configured to receive authentication information identifying a first user and receive first user information identifying a second user wherein the first user is different from the second user. The computing device is further configured to receive information indicating selection of one or more particular documents from a set of one or more documents and send document information that at least identifies the one or more particular documents to a repository associated with the second user. A printing device is configured to receive second user information identifying the second user and in response to receiving the second user information retrieve the one or more particular documents from the repository based at least in part on the second user information. The printing device is further configured to process at least one document of the one or more particular documents for printing. The approach may be implemented as a computer implemented method by an apparatus system or device or by a computer readable medium storing instructions which when processed by one or more processors implement the approach.

In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent however that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

An approach is provided for a service provider to identify documents to send to a client s repository and for the client to print the documents from the client s repository. In an embodiment a computing device is configured to receive authentication information identifying a first user and receive first user information identifying a second user wherein the first user is different from the second user. The computing device is further configured to receive information indicating selection of one or more particular documents from a set of one or more documents and send document information that at least identifies the one or more particular documents to a repository associated with the second user. A printing device is configured to receive second user information identifying the second user and in response to receiving the second user information retrieve the one or more particular documents from the repository based at least in part on the second user information. The printing device is further configured to process at least one document of the one or more particular documents for printing.

According to an embodiment the printing device is communicatively connected to a display device and to a scanner and the printing device is further configured to receive the second user information via the scanner display at a graphical user interface displayed at the display device data that at least identifies the one or more particular documents receive a print command via the graphical user interface and process the at least one document for printing in response to receiving the print command.

According to a further embodiment the computing device is communicatively connected to a scanner and the computing device is further configured to receive the first user information via the scanner.

According to a further embodiment the set of one or more documents includes a first subset of documents that is not editable by the first user and a second subset of documents that is editable by the first user.

According to yet a further embodiment the computing device is further configured to browse documents via a network at a browser wherein the browser is configured to receive input from the first user that a particular document currently displayed at the browser should be added to the second subset of documents. The computing device is further configured to include information at least identifying the particular document in the second subset of documents in response to receiving input from the first user that the particular document currently displayed at the browser should be added to the second subset of documents. According to yet a further embodiment the information at least identifying the particular document includes one or more labels for the particular document.

According to yet a further embodiment the printing device is further configured to receive an email command and in response to receiving the email command send the one or more particular documents to an email account associated with the second user information.

Computing device may be implemented by any type of computing device. Example implementations of computing device include without limitation workstations personal computers laptop computers tablet computers personal digital assistants PDAs cellular telephony devices and any type of mobile devices. In example network arrangement computing device is configured with a repository application and a browser . As described in more detail below repository application allows a service provider to edit a list of the service provider s information sources documents identifies a client i.e. via scanner and or causes selected documents to be stored at a repository of repositories e.g. repository . As also described in more detail below browser is configured to browse documents i.e. on the Internet via network . In one embodiment of the invention computing device is configured without browser . Computing device may be configured with other mechanisms processes and functionality depending upon a particular implementation.

Printing device may be implemented by any type of device that is capable of communicating with repository server device over network processing print data and generating printed versions of documents reflected in the print data. In example network arrangement printing device includes a document retrieval service and a print process . Printing device may be configured with other mechanisms processes and functionality depending upon a particular implementation. The approach described herein is not limited to any particular type of printing device or network configuration. For example printing device may be a multi function peripheral MFP that includes any combination of printing copying facsimile and scanning capability etc. Example network arrangement may include multiple printing devices that are capable of retrieving and processing document data from repository server device .

Document retrieval service may be implemented by one or more processes configured to receive document data from repository server device as described in more detail below. Print process may be implemented by one or more processes configured to create and or process print data received from repository server device and to generate a printed version of a document reflected in the print data.

Document retrieval service and print process may be implemented as resident processes on printing device . Alternatively one or more of document retrieval service and print process may be made available to printing device on a removable media or may be implemented at a remote location with respect to printing device . Also document retrieval service and print process may be implemented as plug ins or in hardware software or any combination of hardware or software depending upon a particular implementation.

Repository server device may be implemented by any type of computing device that is capable of communicating with computing device and printing device over network . In example network arrangement repository server device includes repository service which handles requests to store and or retrieve documents from repositories as described in more detail below. Repositories may be implemented by any type of storage mechanism capable of maintaining multiple repositories each of which stores document information and is associated with a particular user. For example repositories may be implemented by a relational database an XML database or any other kind of storage mechanism. Repository server device may be configured with other mechanisms processes and functionality depending upon a particular implementation and the approach described herein. According to an embodiment repository server device is part of a cloud storage service. For example the functionality and services provided by repository server device may be provided by one or more cloud services and one or more cloud applications.

Repository server device is depicted in and described herein as being a separate network element for purposes of explanation only and repository server device may be included on computing device or printing device . For example in an embodiment printing device is configured with one or more services to perform one or more of the functions attributed to repository service herein.

Network may be implemented with any type of medium and or mechanism that facilitates the exchange of information between computing device printing device and repository server device . Furthermore network may use any type of communications protocol and may be secured or unsecured depending upon the requirements of a particular application.

Computing device is communicatively coupled to display device and printing device is communicatively coupled to display device . Each of display devices and may be implemented by any type of display device including Cathode Ray Tubes CRT Liquid Crystal Displays LCD Light Emitting Diode LED monitors touch screens projectors etc. According to an embodiment display device is integrated with computing device as in with a tablet computing device. According to an embodiment display device is integrated with printing device as in with a kiosk printing device.

Further computing device is communicatively coupled to scanner and printing device is communicatively coupled to a scanner . Scanners and may be implemented by any type of device capable of scanning codes and or documents including a camera a bar code scanner a Quick Response QR code scanner a card reader a magnetic strip scanner a device using Near Field Communication a document scanner etc.

Server device may be implemented by any type of computing device that is capable of communicating with devices via network . Server device is configured with a web server that serves documents in document storage via network . Server device is further configured with client information server and document reference server . Server device may be configured with other mechanisms processes and functionality depending upon a particular implementation and the approach described herein.

At step authentication information identifying a first user is received at a computing device. For example repository application on computing device receives authentication information identifying a particular doctor. In an embodiment the authentication information is a user name and password entered via a graphical user interface GUI at display device . In another embodiment the authentication information is obtained from an employee card that is swiped or scanned at scanner .

Repository application uses the authentication information to retrieve a list of documents associated with the doctor identified in the authentication information. This list of documents described in more detail below may be stored in any location according to embodiments of the invention including at computing device at repository server device etc.

In another embodiment the authentication information is used to log the doctor into computing device . In this embodiment part or all of the list of documents may be stored at computing device and part or all part of the list of documents may be retrieved from repository server device .

At step first user information identifying a second user is received at the computing device wherein the first user is different from the second user. For example a patient of the particular doctor may scan a patient identifier code e.g. on an arm bracelet on an identification card of the patient a bar code QR code or other electronically identifiable information on a paper provided to the patient etc. at scanner to produce scan data that identifies the patient. GUI of is displayed at display device and depicts a graphical user interface configured to be populated with a patient s name at field an email address at field and an identification number at field .

A doctor may acquire information identifying a patient by activating read id button . According to an embodiment activation of read id button causes computing device to display at display device GUI depicted at . Field represents an image within the field of scanner which may be a camera communicatively coupled to or integrated with computing device . The example of depicts identifying information i.e. a QR code within the field of scanner . A user may activate capture button to capture identifying information within the field of scanner . The user may also activate cancel button to return to GUI .

Repository application receives the scan data from scanner . Repository application extracts information encoded in the identifying information and sends the decoded information to client information server at server device . Client information server returns to repository application information for the patient corresponding to the decoded information. Repository application may populate one or more of fields of GUI with information obtained from client information server .

As a further example the doctor may enter information identifying the user into GUI at one or more of fields . In this example repository application receives the identifying information via GUI . The identified patient is recorded by repository application to be the current patient.

At step information indicating selection of one or more first documents from a set of one or more documents is received at the computing device. For example repository application receives information indicating selection of one or more documents from a list of documents associated with the doctor e.g. the list of documents retrieved with the doctor s authentication information described above. An example document list that is associated with the doctor is depicted in . Repository application may cause document list to be displayed at GUI at display device and the doctor selects one or more documents from document list that pertain to the doctor s patient. Repository application receives information indicating the documents selected by the doctor via the GUI.

To illustrate the current patient was recently diagnosed with diabetes and the doctor selects document that provides information about a healthy eating plan. The doctor may also select documents that include instructions for using a particular medicine e.g. document information about support groups for diabetics e.g. document etc.

At step document information that at least identifies the one or more first documents is sent to a repository associated with the second user. For example repository application sends information for one or more documents e.g. document selected by the doctor and information identifying the current patient to repository service for storage at a repository in repositories that is associated with the patient. Information for document that is sent to repository service may identify document via a Uniform Resource Locator URL that identifies the location of document via network or in a storage medium of computing device . Further the information for document may include one or more of the document file print data for document a rendering of document and other information. According to an embodiment repository service creates a rasterized image a pdf file or other printable data in repository for document .

Repository service receives the information sent by repository application and identifies using the information identifying the patient the repository of repositories associated with the patient to be repository . Repository service stores the information for document in repository .

According to an embodiment the doctor has the option to send one or more documents from document list to an email address e.g. at checkbox of GUI . The email address may be known based on the information for the current patient retrieved via scanner associated with a user s profile either stored at computing device repository server device or at another server device not shown in . Further the email address may be input at computing device in connection with the request to email the one or more documents.

Once the doctor has stored documents at the patient s repository the documents are available for the patient to print at the patient s leisure. A patient may choose to access the patient s repository to view and or print the documents e.g. at a kiosk that includes printing device described in further detail below at the exit of a hospital at which the patient visited the particular doctor.

Returning to flowchart of at step second user information identifying the second user is received at a second computing device. The second computing device may be printing device or may be another computing device. To illustrate document retrieval service at printing device receives via a GUI displayed at display device information identifying the patient of the previous example. In this example the user may type into text fields in the GUI the patient s name patient identifier and or other identifying information.

As another example document retrieval service receives information identifying the patient via scanner . In this example the patient scans an identification card bar code QR code or other electronically identifiable information at scanner to produce scan data that identifies the patient. Document retrieval service determines the information identifying the patient from the scan data.

At step in response to receiving the second user information the one or more first documents is retrieved at the second computing device from the repository based at least in part on the second user information. For example document retrieval service sends a request to repository service for the documents stored at a repository associated with the patient accompanied by information identifying the patient. Repository service identifies repository as the repository that is associated with the patient based on the received patient information. Repository service sends information that at least identifies all documents in repository to document retrieval service .

At step information for at least one document of the one or more first documents is displayed at the second computing device. The second computing device may comprise at least one of a projector and a display device. For example printing device the second computing device is communicatively connected to display device . Printing device causes information for documents stored at repository to be displayed at display device . The displayed information includes one or more of information identifying the documents content of the documents one or more attributes of the documents etc.

According to an embodiment document retrieval service displays the list of documents at a GUI at display device . In addition to the list of documents the GUI at display device may include a mechanism for each document in the list by which a user may a select the document b display a rendering of the document via display device c delete the document d email the document to a particular email address e print the document etc. The email address may be entered by the user via the GUI at display device or may be included in the user information received at printing device via scanner . Also printing device may have access to additional information about the user at a remote server not shown in . Further the GUI displayed at display device may include a mechanism by which all selected documents are deleted or printed or displayed or emailed.

According to an embodiment the second computing device comprises a printing device or in other words the second computing device is communicatively connected to a printer. In this embodiment the second computing device processes at least one document of the one or more first documents for printing. For example the patient activates a mechanism by which one or more documents displayed at display device are printed. Thus in this example a print command for the one or more documents is issued to print process . In an embodiment the print command of all documents in the patient s repository is implied based on receiving the second user information identifying the second user.

In response to the explicit or implied print command print process processes for printing the documents associated with the print request. According to one embodiment the information stored at a repository for a particular document includes a URL for the document and does not include print data or the document s file. In this embodiment print process retrieves based on the URL information for the document to be printed and generates print data from that information. According to another embodiment the information stored at a repository for a particular document includes print data for the document. In this embodiment print process processes the print data retrieved from the repository for printing. According to yet another embodiment the information stored at a repository for a particular document includes a document file. In this embodiment print process generates print data from the document file retrieved from the repository and processes that for printing.

In the embodiment where the data is stored at repository as print data or a document file the data for the document is frozen at the point that it was stored in the repository. This may be beneficial if the document is a web page which may be changed by the owner of the web page at any time. Also the owner of a web page may change the URL to the web page after the URL is stored at the repository. On the other hand in the embodiment where repositories store the documents as URLs and not as print data or a document file any updates to the information in the document would be included in the document at the time that it is retrieved by document retrieval service which allows any updates to be included in the printed data for the client.

In an embodiment where the user has the option to email a document from printing device document retrieval service receives an email command for a particular document e.g. through a GUI displayed at display device . In response to the email command document retrieval service sends a document file for the particular document to an email address associated with the patient. The email address may be typed into the GUI by the patient or may be retrieved based on the user s information. According to an embodiment in connection with an email command the document may be printed to a pdf file and the pdf file is sent to the email address. According to an embodiment the selected documents are processed for physical printing by print process at the time that the documents are emailed.

In an embodiment documents that have been printed or emailed are erased from repository as soon as the user logs out of printing device .

In one embodiment printing device and scanner are part of a kiosk with display device as the kiosk display. Such a kiosk may be placed at the exit of the service provider s building for a client to use before the client leaves the building. A default screen displayed at display device may include instructions for the client e.g. Print the documents from your doctor here . According to this embodiment display device may be a touch screen. Any input device may be included in the kiosk. For example the kiosk may include a physical print button that a client presses to print all of the documents in the client s repository. In the case of a physical print button the display device may simply display messages to the user such as the following You have at least one document to print. Please press the print button to print your documents. or You have no documents to print. Please call this number if you believe that you should have documents to print. 

Further the kiosk may allow clients to selectively print a subset of the documents from the client s repository. For example the display device may display a list of the documents currently stored on the client s repository and allow the client to select and print particular documents from the list of documents displayed. This may be helpful for example if the client has already obtained a copy of one or more documents from another source or otherwise does not wish to print all of the documents.

According to one embodiment a user other than the patient interacts with printing device . For example a member of the service provider s staff may send to document retrieval service the second user information according to step of flowchart e.g. as part of checking out the client. According to this embodiment display device is associated with a computing device e.g. the staff member s computer not shown in which is communicatively coupled to printing device . The service provider staff member may submit the client s information via a GUI at display device or via scanner .

The service provider s computing device may run an application that communicates the client s information to document retrieval service e.g. via an Application Programming Interface API . Further the service provider s computing device may access a particular web page via a browser running on the machine through which the staff member may submit client information to document retrieval service according to step . Document retrieval service retrieves documents from repository using the client s information and proceeds as described above including processing one or more of the retrieved documents for printing if applicable in a particular context.

Document list of is an example of a list of documents that is created by a service provider user such as the doctor of the examples given above. Document list is associated with the service provider user and may be stored at repository server device computing device or at any other location within the embodiments of the invention. Repository application may retrieve document list in connection with authenticating the service provider user. Each document of document list includes one or more of the following a URL print data a document file other identifying information a nickname a timestamp one or more labels etc.

The service provider user may add a document to document list in various ways within the embodiments of the invention. In embodiments the service provider user enters information identifying a document e.g. a URL for the document into a GUI displayed at display device . The provided GUI may allow the service provider user to browse to a location on a storage medium of computing device and add the locally stored document to document list . To illustrate the service provider user scans a printed article and saves the scan data to the memory of computing device . The service provider user then browses to the location of the saved scan data to add the scanned article to document list . Repository application receives the information entered into the GUI and adds the information as a new document to document list .

According to further embodiments browser is configured to add information identifying the document that is currently displayed at browser to document list . To illustrate this embodiment the plug in may cause a button to be displayed in the GUI of the browser that when pressed records information for the document currently displayed in browser to document list . The plug in may cause a pop up GUI to be displayed that requests further information about the document such as a nickname one or more labels for the document etc. Any information that the user supplies in response to this request is stored in document list for the document. Browser or repository application may cause print data to be created for the document and include this print data with the information for the document in document list .

According to an embodiment browser is further configured to send a particular document being displayed in browser directly to the current client s repository. For example browser requests information for the current client repository repository from repository application . In an embodiment repository application stores information identifying repository as the current client repository and all operations on a client repository are performed on the current client repository until repository application receives information indicating that repository is no longer the current client repository e.g. because the client session has ended the client or service provider has logged out at computing device or information for a new current client repository is sent to repository application etc. . Browser may request further information from the service provider user prior to sending the document to the current client repository . Browser may also cause the document to be saved to document list .

In an embodiment the service provider user is supplied with a list of documents in addition to document list that is not editable by the service provider. To illustrate a particular service provider user is managed under a certain department at a hospital. The department administrators provide to the particular service provider user a list of documents to be displayed with document list as depicted by document list in described in further detail below . This list of documents that are provided by the department may be documents that the administrators consider important to be available to the service providers.

The list of documents that is not editable by the service provider user may be associated with a setting for the service provider user e.g. the service provider user s department and retrieved by repository application in connection with authenticating the service provider user. Furthermore an administrator may construct such a list of documents in a similar manner to the way that the service provider user constructs document list as described above.

In one embodiment browser includes a mechanism by which a service provider user may nominate the document currently displayed at browser to be included in the administrator s list of documents. In response to receiving activation of the mechanism browser sends information identifying the document to repository application which emails the request to an email address associated with the administrators.

Repository application causes display device to display a GUI such as GUI of that includes the document lists for the service provider user including document list . In an embodiment the list of documents that are not editable by the service provider user is also depicted in GUI . According to this embodiment a list of documents such as list of that includes both provider document list and a department document list would replace document list in GUI .

In GUI the documents are listed using the associated nicknames for the documents. In one embodiment if no nickname is provided for a particular document then the document is displayed using the URL or other identifying information for the document.

GUI may include an option to view more information for one or more of the documents activation of which displays further information stored in connection with the documents. Further GUI may include an option to open a document e.g. in browser or in another program associated with the document s file. GUI may include an option to update print data or a document file for a particular document which updates the stored print data or document file based on source information for the document.

In GUI the documents may be displayed in groups based on one or more of a source of the document user editable list non editable list Internet domain etc. document labels a document type etc. To illustrate document list of includes several document groups where each group may be expanded or contracted as with a tree structure or folder file structure display. Accordingly GUI may include expand all and or contract all mechanisms which expand or contract all of the groupings respectively.

Document list includes a document group labeled by label which includes the documents added by and editable by the service provider user. Document list further includes a documents group labeled by label that includes documents that are not editable by the service provider user e.g. documents from administrators of a department for the service provider user.

GUI may also include a mechanism by which the service provider user views a history of the documents sent to the current client repository which may also indicate whether the client has viewed emailed or printed documents from the repository.

Document list displays documents grouped by labels which are associated with the documents. A document may have zero or more labels associated therewith.

According to an embodiment document labels are organized in a label hierarchy. In example document list labels and pertain to a first level of labels in the label hierarchy under which all documents or groups of documents are organized. According to an embodiment label provider documents and label department documents are labels that are automatically assigned to documents based on whether the document is part of service provider document list or part of document list that is not editable by the service provider user. Other labels may be associated with a document to indicate a source for the document.

Document list also displays groups associated with second level labels and . Because document is only associated with a first level label it is displayed at the level of the second level labels. Furthermore label is a third level label. According to an embodiment application of label automatically applies labels and to the document because labels and are above label in the label hierarchy.

The service provider user applies labels to documents when the documents are added to a document list. According to an embodiment the user types in the labels. According to another embodiment labels of the label hierarchy are managed in a labels database e.g. at repository server device or at computing device . When the service provider user adds a new document to document list or the service provider user may select one or more labels from one or more drop down lists populated based on the labels database for application to the new document or may add a new label to the labels database and have that new label applied to the new document. When adding a new label to the labels database the service provider user indicates a position in the labels hierarchy for the new label.

GUI allows the service provider user to select one or more documents from document list or document list and send those documents to the current client repository . GUI may also include a mechanism by which the service provider user may add all of the documents associated with a particular label to the client s repository. Thus the service provider user may send all information under a label basic diabetes information to a client who has been newly diagnosed with diabetes and may also send a certain article under a label specialized diabetes information that particularly pertains to the client s condition. Furthermore the service provider user may choose more sophisticated documents for a more sophisticated client and simpler or less involved documents for a client that is less sophisticated.

A service provider user may not be comfortable with working on computing device . Thus in an embodiment a service provider user may select one or more documents printed on a piece of paper. For example document list of may be printed on a piece of paper and the service provider user may check the boxes next to the documents that the service provider user wants in the client s repository. The service provider user may scan the piece of paper using scanner to produce scan data. Repository application identifies the documents selected by the doctor from the scan data e.g. using an Optical Character Recognition OCR application. Repository application causes information for the identified documents to be stored at repository which is the current client repository.

To illustrate OCR data generated for the paper depicting the one or more documents selected by the service provider may be stored at repository . As another example the OCR data that represents the paper depicting the one or more documents selected by the service provider may be processed and data identifying the one or more selected documents may be stored at repository without necessarily storing data that represents the entire printed document depicting the one or more documents selected by the service provider or storing the one or more selected documents in repository .

Further the client may scan the piece of paper with the service provider user s document selection at scanner and document retrieval service identifies the documents selected by the doctor from the scan data. According to an embodiment document retrieval service treats the documents identified from the scan data as if the documents were retrieved from the client s repository. According to another embodiment document retrieval service causes the documents identified from the scan data to be added to a repository associated with the client and then proceeds with retrieving documents from the client s repository e.g. repository .

A document reference is information identifying a location for a document. Information identifying a location for a document may include a URL for a document accessible via network may include the location of the document in document storage which stores copies of documents that are accessible by document reference server etc. Document storage may include a company s e.g. a hospital s standard documents and copyright cleared documents that may be transmitted to or referred to in a client s repository or email.

The request from computing device to retrieve an authenticated doctor s document list includes information about the doctor. Document reference server uses this information to identify the document reference sets associated with the doctor including doctor specific document references document references for a department associated with the doctor and hospital document references for a hospital associated with the doctor. According to an example document reference server identifies document reference sets and as references for doctor .

Doctor then acquires a client identifier. For example the doctor may cause computing device to capture identifying information for a client via scanner as described above. Computing device requests client information associated with the acquired identifying information from client information server .

Doctor selects documents from the doctor s document list to associate with the identified client. The selected documents may be from any of the doctor s document reference sets e.g. sets and . Computing device sends information for the selected document references to repository service for inclusion into repository associated with the client also described above.

If selected by doctor computing device causes repository service to email information for the selected documents to the client. The email may include references to the selected documents may have the selected documents attached thereto etc. Documents that are stored at document storage may be made available to clients and doctors via web server which serves documents from document storage via network .

The client logs into printing device as described above. Document retrieval service at printing device requests documents for the client from repository service . Repository service may convert to printable format one or more document references in repository which is associated with the client. For example to convert a document in repository to printable format repository service downloads a printable version of a document based on a document reference stored at repository . As a further example repository service creates a rasterized image a pdf file or other printable data for a document referred to in repository .

Repository service returns printable documents to document retrieval service at printing device for printing. Print process at printing device causes the documents to be printed.

According to one embodiment the techniques described herein are implemented by one or more special purpose computing devices. The special purpose computing devices may be hard wired to perform the techniques or may include digital electronic devices such as one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs or field programmable gate arrays FPGAs that are persistently programmed to perform the techniques or may include one or more general purpose hardware processors programmed to perform the techniques pursuant to program instructions in firmware memory other storage or a combination. Such special purpose computing devices may also combine custom hard wired logic ASICs or FPGAs with custom programming to accomplish the techniques. The special purpose computing devices may be desktop computer systems portable computer systems handheld devices networking devices or any other device that incorporates hard wired and or program logic to implement the techniques.

For example is a block diagram that illustrates a computer system upon which an embodiment of the invention may be implemented. Computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information and a hardware processor coupled with bus for processing information. Hardware processor may be for example a general purpose microprocessor.

Computer system also includes a main memory such as a random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device coupled to bus for storing information and instructions to be executed by processor . Main memory also may be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions to be executed by processor . Such instructions when stored in non transitory storage media accessible to processor render computer system into a special purpose machine that is customized to perform the operations specified in the instructions.

Computer system further includes a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to bus for storing static information and instructions for processor . A storage device such as a magnetic disk optical disk or solid state drive is provided and coupled to bus for storing information and instructions.

Computer system may be coupled via bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT for displaying information to a computer user. An input device including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to bus for communicating information and command selections to processor . Another type of user input device is cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to processor and for controlling cursor movement on display . This input device typically has two degrees of freedom in two axes a first axis e.g. x and a second axis e.g. y that allows the device to specify positions in a plane.

Computer system may implement the techniques described herein using customized hard wired logic one or more ASICs or FPGAs firmware and or program logic which in combination with the computer system causes or programs computer system to be a special purpose machine. According to one embodiment the techniques herein are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions may be read into main memory from another storage medium such as storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in main memory causes processor to perform the process steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions.

The term storage media as used herein refers to any non transitory media that store data and or instructions that cause a machine to operate in a specific fashion. Such storage media may comprise non volatile media and or volatile media. Non volatile media includes for example optical disks magnetic disks or solid state drives such as storage device . Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as main memory . Common forms of storage media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk solid state drive magnetic tape or any other magnetic data storage medium a CD ROM any other optical data storage medium any physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM NVRAM any other memory chip or cartridge.

Storage media is distinct from but may be used in conjunction with transmission media. Transmission media participates in transferring information between storage media. For example transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infra red data communications.

Various forms of media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to processor for execution. For example the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk or solid state drive of a remote computer. The remote computer can load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to computer system can receive the data on the telephone line and use an infra red transmitter to convert the data to an infra red signal. An infra red detector can receive the data carried in the infra red signal and appropriate circuitry can place the data on bus . Bus carries the data to main memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor .

Computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link that is connected to a local network . For example communication interface may be an integrated services digital network ISDN card cable modem satellite modem or a modem to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links may also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information.

Network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to data equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP in turn provides data communication services through the world wide packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet . Local network and Internet both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams. The signals through the various networks and the signals on network link and through communication interface which carry the digital data to and from computer system are example forms of transmission media.

Computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s network link and communication interface . In the Internet example a server might transmit a requested code for an application program through Internet ISP local network and communication interface .

The received code may be executed by processor as it is received and or stored in storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution.

In the foregoing specification embodiments of the invention have been described with reference to numerous specific details that may vary from implementation to implementation. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The sole and exclusive indicator of the scope of the invention and what is intended by the applicants to be the scope of the invention is the literal and equivalent scope of the set of claims that issue from this application in the specific form in which such claims issue including any subsequent correction.

