---

title: Methods and system for distributing information via multiple forms of delivery services
abstract: Systems and methods of managing content and content requests are described. A data store of profiles of potential content contributors is provided. A request from a first source for content comprising content criteria is received, the content criteria comprising content contributor characteristics and content subject matter. Based on the content contributor characteristics and the profiles, at least a first potential content contributor is identified. At least a portion of the content request content criteria is transmitted to the first potential content contributor. If recorded content is received from the first content contributor, the first source is provided with access to the received recorded content. At least partly in response to acceptance by the first source of the received recorded content, the first source is enabled to publish the accepted received recorded content.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09348823&OS=09348823&RS=09348823
owner: Greenfly, Inc.
number: 09348823
owner_city: Newport Beach
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150417
---
Any and all applications for which a foreign or domestic priority claim is identified in the Application Data Sheet as filed with the present application are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety under 37 CFR 1.57.

Social networking and microblogs enable users to quickly share information. However conventional media such as television radio and newspapers typically lack the immediacy and interactivity offered by social networks and microblogs.

Social network platforms also suffer from certain deficiencies. For example conventional social networks often fail to provide a well defined and recurring system in place for social influencers to monetize the content that they create.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more aspects in order to provide a basic understanding of such aspects. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated aspects and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all aspects nor delineate the scope of any or all aspects. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more aspects in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Certain example embodiments provide a system and process that enable users to share information content and items. Such shared information and content may be distributed over one or more distribution channels.

Certain optional embodiments provide a system and method that enables a publisher to submit a request for content to a system such as a content distribution facilitation system. The system may selectively transmit the request to one or more potential respondents. The potential respondents may optionally be identified by the system based at least in part on the request and or other criteria specified by the requester. The request may optionally specify an expiration date time wherein if the request is not satisfied by the specified date time the request may expire and potential respondents may no longer accept the request.

One or more potential respondents may provide content in response to the request. The content may be newly created content that is created in response to the request and or the content may comprise preexisting previously recorded content. The system may receive and provide the response optionally including the content to the requester or the responses may be provided directly to the requester without traversing the content distribution facilitation system.

The requester may optionally evaluate the content from some or all of the respondents and may accept one or more content items e.g. to use and distribute via one or more avenues of distribution . The acceptance indication may optionally be provided via a user interface presented to the requester and the acceptance indication may be received by the content distribution facilitation system. The respondent s whose content was accepted may optionally be notified of the acceptance via the content distribution facilitation system or otherwise e.g. via email a short messaging service an instant message a dedicated application a webpage or otherwise . The respondent s whose content was accepted sometimes referred to herein as a content contributor may optionally be compensated e.g. via currency or other item of value directly by the requester and or by the content distribution facilitation system operator.

In an example embodiment a data store of profiles of potential content contributors is provided. A request from a first requester for content comprising content criteria is received the content criteria comprising content contributor characteristics and content subject matter. Based on the content contributor characteristics and the profiles at least a first potential content contributor is identified. At least a portion of the content request content criteria is transmitted to the first potential content contributor. Recorded content is received from the first content contributor. The first requester is provided with access to the received recorded content. At least partly in response to acceptance by the first requester of the received recorded content the first requester is enabled to publish the accepted received recorded content for at least a first period of time.

An example aspect provides a method of managing content and content requests the method comprising maintaining a data store of profiles of potential content contributors receiving at a content distribution facilitation system a request for new content from a first requester the content request comprising content criteria comprising content contributor characteristics content subject matter and or content length based at least on the content contributor characteristics included in the request and the profiles of potential content contributors identifying by the content distribution facilitation system at least a first plurality of potential content contributors transmitting by the content distribution facilitation system at least a portion of the content request content criteria to the first plurality of potential content contributors receiving by the content distribution facilitation system recorded content from one or more of the first plurality of potential content contributors providing via the content distribution facilitation system the first requester with access to the received recorded content receiving by the content distribution facilitation system acceptance by the first requester of at least one item of the received recorded content and enabling the first requester to publish the accepted received recorded content.

An example aspect provides a method of managing content and content requests the method comprising maintaining a data store of profiles of potential content contributors receiving at a content distribution facilitation system a request for content from a first requester the content request comprising content criteria comprising content contributor characteristics and or content subject matter based at least on the content contributor characteristics included in the request and the profiles of potential content contributors identifying by the content distribution facilitation system at least a first potential content contributor transmitting by the content distribution facilitation system at least a portion of the content request content criteria to the first potential content contributor receiving by the content distribution facilitation system recorded content from the first content contributor providing via the content distribution facilitation system the first requester with access to the received recorded content receiving by the content distribution facilitation system acceptance by the first requester of the received recorded content and enabling the first requester to publish the accepted received recorded content.

An example aspect provides a system comprising at least one computing device comprising hardware non transitory memory coupled to the at least one computing device that stores instructions that when executed by the at least one computing device cause at least in part the system to perform operations comprising maintaining a data store of profiles of potential content contributors receiving at a content distribution facilitation system a request for content from a first requester the content request comprising content criteria comprising content contributor characteristics content subject matter based at least on the content contributor characteristics included in the request and the profiles of potential content contributors identifying at least a first potential content contributor transmitting at least a portion of the content request content criteria to the first potential content contributor receiving recorded content from the first content contributor providing via the content distribution facilitation system the first requester with access to the received recorded content receiving acceptance by the first requester of the received recorded content and enabling the first requester to publish the accepted received recorded content.

An example aspect provides a non transitory memory storing instructions that when executed by a computer system comprising at least one computing device cause the system to perform operations comprising maintaining a data store of profiles of potential content contributors receiving at a content distribution facilitation system a request for content from a first requester the content request comprising content criteria comprising content contributor characteristics content subject matter based at least on the content contributor characteristics included in the request and the profiles of potential content contributors identifying at least a first potential content contributor transmitting at least a portion of the content request content criteria to the first potential content contributor receiving recorded content from the first content contributor providing via the content distribution facilitation system the first requester with access to the received recorded content receiving acceptance by the first requester of the received recorded content and enabling the first requester to publish the accepted received recorded content.

Systems and methods are described that enable users to share information content and items. Such shared information and content may be distributed over one or more distribution channels. For example certain embodiments enable requests for content to selectively be submitted to a specific target group of potential responders such as athletes actors agents athlete scouts medical experts opinion leaders industry experts celebrities a social or working group or the like. Optionally the request may be directed to a specific person or group.

For example certain embodiments provide a system that enables a publisher to submit a request for such content to a content distribution facilitation system which may then selectively transmit the request to one or more potential respondents. The potential respondents may be identified by the system based at least in part on the request and or other criteria specified by the requester. The request may specify an expiration date time wherein if the request is not satisfied by the specified date time the request may expire and potential respondents may no longer accept the request. By way of example the publisher may be an entity that needs information commentary or other content such as a producer or distributor of a television program e.g. a live sports program such as a game broadcast a radio program or an online newspaper. By way of further example the publisher may be a venue such as a stadium where the responder s submission in response to the request may be published on an electronic sign or display e.g. a large screen television within the venue.

The one or more potential respondents may provide content in response to the request. The content may be newly created content that is created in response to the request or the content may be preexisting previously recorded content. The system may receive and provide the response including the content to the requester or the responses may be provided directly to the requester without traversing the content distribution facilitation system. The requester may then evaluate the content from some or all of the respondents and accept one or more to use and distribute via one or more avenues of distribution. The acceptance indication may be provided via a user interface presented to the requester and the acceptance indication may be received by the content distribution facilitation system. The respondent s whose content was accepted may be notified of the acceptance via the content distribution facilitation system or otherwise e.g. via email a short messaging service an instant message a dedicated application a webpage or otherwise . The respondent s whose content was accepted sometimes referred to herein as a content contributor may be compensated directly by the requester and or by the content distribution facilitation system operator.

Optionally the compensation may be timed event based. For example if the content is received during a live sporting event broadcast where the content may be used the responder may receive a relatively higher level than if the content is received after the live sporting event for use in a news report reporting on the sporting event. Optionally a responder may receive a relatively lower compensation for providing the content if the content is submitted in response to the request but is not accepted. Optionally if the content is not accepted by the requester within a specified period of time the ability of the requester to accept the content may expire and the content may be offered to others on an exclusive or non exclusive basis. For example if the content is not accepted by the requester within a specified period of time the system may offer the content to other potential users e.g. media partners optionally with a designated acceptance period. Once that acceptance period passes without a purchase by such a media partner or if the responder indicated that they do not want the content offered to other media partners then the content may be automatically published out to social media e.g. a microblog a blog a social network page etc. some or all of which may be hosted by the system or by third party systems. For example the system may host a website where a given responder content contributor e.g. an athlete or celebrity is provided a page or site where the content provided in a response as well as other content e.g. videos photos text conversations may be posted in association with ads or sponsorships enabling richer fan interactions and generating revenue for such content providers.

Optionally the requester may specify different amounts of compensation for different response times. For example the requester may specify that the responder will receive 500 if the response is received within 5 minutes of the request being submitted 300 if the response is received between 6 30 minutes of the request being submitted and 150 if the response is received between 31 minutes and 4 hours of the request being submitted. In this example the requester may specify that the offer expires if the content is not received within 4 hours of the request being submitted. In addition to or instead of specifying relative time the request may specify absolute time periods. For example requester may specify that the responder will receive 500 if the response is received by 1 15 PM 300 if the response is received between 1 16 PM 1 45 PM and 150 if the response is received between 1 46 PM and 5 45 PM.

Optionally a point system may be used in addition to or instead of the currency payment system described herein. For example a responder may be awarded a first set of points e.g. 5 points or other number of points for submitting a response to a requester e.g. video audio and or text media and may be awarded a second number of points e.g. 3 to 10 times as many points as the first number of points if the requester uses the submitted response e.g. by broadcasting it via television radio webpage SMS message or email . Optionally the system may enable the responder to convert the points to an item of value such as currency a gift card a product and or a service. Optionally some or all of the items of value may be provisioned by a sponsor seeking to advertise their product and or service. For example a golf equipment company may provide golfing equipment which the responder would purchase via the system or otherwise using points. The sponsor may obtain the benefit of having a well known responder e.g. a well known athlete use their product and or service and may optionally be entitled to identify via advertisements or otherwise that the responder uses the sponsor s products and or services. Optionally the sponsor may specify that in order to receive the item of value the responder needs to include the item in a video response that includes the responder e.g. for product placement . Optionally the responder may need to have at least a threshold amount of points in order to exchange the points for an item of value. Optionally a given point may be assigned a certain currency value e.g. each point or each 10 points equal one dollar .

The requester may be provided with an exclusive right to utilize the accepted content for a specified time period number of views and or for one or more specified distribution channels e.g. television radio print etc. . For example the length of exclusivity may be based on the fee wherein the relatively larger the fee for a given item of content the relatively longer the period of exclusivity. Optionally once the period of exclusivity ends the content may be automatically published via one or more other publication channels. For example the content or a portion thereof may automatically be published on a micro blogging site a conventional blog a social networking site via email via short messaging service message and or otherwise. Optionally at least partly in response to the expiration of the exclusivity or a date related thereto a notification is posted on a social networking site associated with the publisher and or the content contributor or elsewhere regarding the loss of exclusivity and or indicating with text a link or otherwise where else the content can now be found e.g. on the content contributor s social network page . Instead or in addition the notification may be provided via a microblog text message email or otherwise. The publication channels may be associated with the responder and or the system operator. For example the content may be published on the contributor s social networking page and or microblog after the exclusivity expiration. Advertising e.g. from sponsors that pay a fee may be provided on such a site where the revenue may be shared by the responder and the content distribution facilitation system. During the period of exclusivity the system may ensure that the accepted content is not distributed via the system to other requesters during the period. Optionally when an exclusivity period expires a notification may be transmitted by the system to the requester and to the corresponding responder regarding the expiration of the exclusivity.

Optionally the requestor is not granted exclusive rights. Optionally the requester is assigned ownership of the content.

For example if during a live sporting event such as a baseball game a notable event occurs e.g. a player hitting four home runs in a game a record breaking event a unusual event a notable statistic etc. a broadcaster of the live event may want to request that other players that have achieved the same feat provide commentary regarding the feat while the game is still in progress to enhance the excitement of the game broadcast and to add a social networking aspect to the game broadcast. The broadcaster may submit via a user interface provided by the system a request for such commentary during the game e.g. almost immediately after the event occurred and may specify that the query is to be directed to athletes and in particular to other players that have previously achieved the feat. The request may specify the subject that the athlete is to discuss e.g. how they feel regarding another athlete achieving the feat . The requester may also specify a response deadline the media type for the response e.g. video including an audio track static images e.g. photographs audio only track text etc. and other response criteria via the user interface. For example the response criteria may specify a response length.

Optionally potential responder s may have an application or application programming interface API installed on their devices that detect certain actions being performed by the responders. For example the application may detect in real time if a responder is viewing a program such as a sporting event and may identify which program is being watched and may transmit such detection to the content distribution facilitation system. Optionally the application prompts the potential responder to indicate e.g. by tapping on a corresponding control or otherwise that he or she is or is not watching a specific program and the application will cause the indication to be transmitted to the content distribution facilitation system. The requester may specify that the request is to be provided to potential responders that are currently watching a specified program. For example the request may specify that the responder is to comment on an event that just took place in the program e.g. hitting of a home run or a triple play .

Optionally in addition to or instead of requesting a recorded submission the requester may request that a responder participate in a live interview discussion either substantially immediately e.g. within 1 minute 5 minutes 10 minutes 30 minutes or 1 hour of the request or at some specified date time e.g. Sep. 30 2013 at 11 00 AM . One or more responders may agree to the request and the requester may engage one or more of such responders. Optionally a responder may participate in the interview discussion using the responder s mobile device e.g. mobile telephone camera and or microphone to capture video and or voice. Other devices such as a desktop computer laptop computer tablet computer television game console etc. that are coupled to a camera and or microphone may be used to capture the responder s video and or voice and to transmit them in substantially real time e.g. with less than a second lag via the system described herein or other system. Likewise the responder device may be used to receive video and audio from the requester enabling the requester and responder to engage in an audio video discussion.

By way of illustration if the response is to be a video or audio response the request may specify the minimum and or maximum time length of the response and if the response is text the request may specify minimum and or maximum number of words and or characters. By way of further example if the response is video or a still image the response criteria may include orientation e.g. landscape or portrait which may be selected based at least in part to the target content reproduction device e.g. television sets phones tablet computers desktop computers etc. .

The requester may also indicate a desired period of time of exclusivity and or a desired exclusive form of distribution. Corresponding fees may be specified by the system to the requester for different lengths of exclusivity and or avenues of distribution. Optionally the requester may specify the fees the requester is willing to pay for the same as part of the request criteria.

Using the requester criteria the system may search its database of potential responders such as athletes actors celebrities experts designers artists musicians etc. for potential responders whose stored profiles match the requester criteria and that have agreed to receive such requests. For example the database may include profiles of athletes such as baseball players which may include various statistics events and achievements from some or all of the games they have played in including those that result from an aggregation of achievements over multiple games such as how many games the player has played in a row or how may games in a row the player has hit a home run . The system may transmit the request to matching potential responders where the request may include some or all of the requester specified response criteria. By way of example the request may be transmitted to a potential responder via email short messaging service e.g. SMS MMS etc. instant messaging service an application sometimes referred to as an app downloaded to or otherwise installed on a potential recipient device e.g. a mobile phone tablet computer entertainment device etc. and or otherwise. For example as noted above the notification may be provided as an in app notification by an application installed on the responder s mobile phone tablet computer or entertainment device.

Optionally a given potential responder that receives the request may record the content requested via a mobile device such as a phone. For example a phone application may be configured to both present the request and enable the recording of the response content optionally at the same time. By way of illustration if the request includes a request for video content of the recipient the application may activate a front facing camera of the phone and present a user interface on the phone display showing the image being captured by the front facing camera where the request may be displayed at the same time. A record control may be provided. When the recipient activates the record control a recording of the recipient e.g. discussing the subject matter included in the request is initiated. A timer e.g. a countdown counter may be presented while the recording is in process which may count down a time corresponding to the requested length of the video content. For example the request transmitted to the user phone application may include the requested length and the application may load the timer with a corresponding time. Optionally once the timer has reached a certain value e.g. 0 the recording may be automatically halted by the application. Optionally instead the recording may continue until the recipient activates a stop or pause control optionally an indication is provided that the recording has exceeded the requested length . The recorded content may be transmitted to the content distribution facilitation system or the content distribution facilitation system may otherwise access the content.

Thus one or more responses including requested content or links thereto may be provided by the requested recipients. The responses may be received by content distribution facilitation system. The content distribution facilitation system may forward the responses to the requester or otherwise notify the requester and enable the requester to access the responses. For example a user interface provided by the content distribution facilitation system to the requester via a requester terminal may display a listing of responses from which the requester can select. Optionally a watermark may be embedded in the content provided to the requester for review to prevent or discourage the use of the content until accepted by the requester and or paid for by the requester. For example with respect to video or image content the watermark may be visual. With respect to audio content the watermark may be audible. The content may be provided without the watermark once accepted by the requester.

In an example embodiment the requester may access the responses via a list presented in a web page provided for display by the system via a dedicated software application or otherwise. The requester may click on a control such as a view control presented in association with a respective response entry and the corresponding response is presented e.g. presented as text video and or audio . The requester may then provide via a user interface an indication of acceptance of one or more of the responses. The acceptance may be recorded by the system and the system may then charge or invoice the requester for the accepted responses.

Optionally an interface may be provided enabling the requester to specify reasons as to why the requester did not accept a given response e.g. the video quality was poor the camera was shaky the sound quality was poor the content was uninteresting the content included objectionable content e.g. obscene language racist language etc. . A notification may be transmitted to the responders indicating acceptance or non acceptance of respective responses optionally including reasons for non acceptance provided by the requester and a confirmation of the acceptance may be transmitted to the requester.

Optionally content not accepted by the requester may then be offered to others for use on an exclusive or non exclusive basis e.g. where the requester affirmatively specifies that the content is not accepted or a predetermined period of time elapses without an acceptance by the requester and so the content is designated by the system as not accepted . For example other potential licensees purchasers of the content may be provided by the system with a search interface where they can enter search queries to identify content they may be interested in. By way of further example such interface may include fields enabling a searcher to specify subject matter criteria e.g. home runs author criteria e.g. a pitcher content specifications e.g. format length type e.g. audio video audio only images etc. availability of exclusive rights and or other criteria discussed herein with respect to requester specified criteria. The system may then return matching search results if any with an associated control enabling the searcher to specify they want to licensee purchase a given item of content identified in the search results. Optionally the responder may correct the issue s identified by the requester and may resubmit the corrected content which the requester may or may not accept as similarly described above.

After the requester has accepted and received the content the requester may publish the accepted content accordingly e.g. in a television program radio program online news program etc. . Optionally the requester may inform the system where e.g. which channel station online media URL etc. and when e.g. time and date the content will be published and the system will cause a notification to be presented to potential consumers indicating where and when they can find and view and or listen to the content. Optionally such a notification is posted on a social networking site associated with the publisher and or the content contributor indicating with text a link or otherwise where and when the content can be found. Instead or in addition the notification may be provided via a microblog text message email or otherwise by the system content provider and or publisher.

Further non limiting examples of the type of criteria that may be specified by a requester will now be described. A user interface may be provided enabling the user to specify by way of example 

accomplishments all star Cy Young award winner Heisman trophy winner specified RBI range specified stolen base range specified number of consecutive games in which the responder accomplished a specified act specified number of singles doubles and or triples per game specified number of at bats specified passing rushing receiving punting kick touchdown accomplishments etc. 

medical condition or procedure e.g. having a type of surgery such as ligament reconstruction surgery having numbness in a limb 

By way of further illustration an online newspaper or other news site may be publishing an article regarding a crime such as a murder. The publisher may want audio commentary regarding the crime from a psychologist. The publisher may submit a request to the system for audio content of a specified length commenting on the subject of the crime from a psychologist having an expertise in criminal psychology. The system may identify psychologists meeting the publisher s criteria and transmit the request to some or all of the identified psychologists. The responses including audio content may be received by the system and made available to the publisher e.g. via a website dedicated application or otherwise . The publisher may listen to the audio content from several or all of the responses from the psychologists. The publisher may accept a response. The publisher may then embed in the article a link to the audio content. A user can then read the article and activate the link in order to hear the audio content.

An application programming interface may be provided enabling third party systems to gain access to some or all of the services provided by the content distribution facilitation system. The operator of a third system may pay a licensing fee for such access.

The operator of the system may utilize one or more fee arrangements to obtain compensation for the services provided and to reimburse the fees paid to content providers. By way of example publishers may pay a periodic subscription fee in order to utilize the system and obtain the right e.g. the exclusive right for a least a period of time to utilize content provided by content providers e.g. athletes celebrities medical personal etc. and accepted by the requester. Optionally the subscription service may only enable the requester to issue requests for and or accept a specified number of items of content within a specified period of time e.g. the requester may only be permitted to submit requests per month .

Compensation may also be received from sponsors and advertisers. Optionally a content contributor responding to a request may be compensated in whole or in part via compensation sponsored by a third party e.g. that wants to advertise its goods services or brand name . For example a contributor may be given a gift card which may be a new gift card or a recharge of value of a gift card previously distributed to the contributor for each submission or for a specified number of submissions the gift card provided in association with an advertisement from a sponsor that is paying for all or a portion of the gift card value.

Optionally in addition or instead the content contributor may be provided with a portion of the revenue from a sponsor sponsoring a show newspaper or other medium using and distributing the content. For example if the content is a 1 minute video of an athlete content contributor being displayed during a broadcast of a live game the video may be introduced as this minute of baseball starring John Smith is presented by sponsor name . The sponsor may pay to have their brand associated with the video and the athlete may receive some or all of the sponsorship fees. Optionally the content contributor may be paid a fixed amount. Optionally certain requesters e.g. companies may request the responder e.g. a celebrity such as an athlete or actor to perform product placement acts and compensate the responder accordingly. For example a company may request and pay a fee for certain celebrities to say Happy Mother s Day while holding a food product provided by the company. By way of further example certain requesters e.g. companies may request that the responder include the requester s logo e.g. via a watermark or otherwise into videos submitted by the responder in response to a request from the requester offering payment for inclusion of the logo and or to requests from other requesters and or for videos distributed by one or more specified media partners. The logo may be provided by the requester and inserted by the responder the system or otherwise.

Optionally the amount the content contributor is paid for his or her contribution may vary and may be determined based on one or more of the following factors and or other factors 

type of use by publisher e.g. television radio printed newspaper online newspaper online broadcast blog pushed out to users e.g. via email SMS website microblog etc. etc. 

timing of the provision of the content from the contributor e.g. how long after the content request was submitted the content was received by the publisher 

Optionally a requester can request items other than publishable content. For example a requester may specify that they want a specific type of item of memorabilia from a specific potential responder and or from a responder selected from a group of responders that satisfy the requestor s criteria. As similarly described above the criteria may be specified via a user interface provided by the system. For example the requester may request a signed baseball from a specific baseball player or the requester may request a signed baseball from any current player on a specified baseball team. The requester may also specify a time frame in which the memorabilia needs to be received by the requester. For example the requestor may want to ensure that the memorabilia is received by a designated gift recipient in time for the gift recipient s birthday.

The system may access its database to identify potential responders that satisfy the requester criteria and transmit the request to some or all of the identified potential responders. If a potential responder accepts the request the system may receive the acceptance and notify other potential responders that the request has been taken and is no longer available to service. The responder that accepted the request then provides the requested memorabilia to the requestor. A fixed fee may be specified for different types of memorabilia or the requester may specify in the request how much they are willing to pay for the memorabilia and the potential responder may determine whether they want to satisfy the request based at least in part on the fee amount. The responder is correspondingly compensated and the requester is correspondingly charged.

The foregoing process may be similarly performed by the system for other types of requests. For example a requester may request that a specific potential responder e.g. a specified athlete musical performer actor celebrity etc. or a potential responder satisfying criteria specified by the user provide a recorded video of the potential responder singing happy birthday wherein the rendition of happy birthday is to include the recitation of a specified recipient of the video e.g. a boy or girl whose birthday it is . By way of further example the request may be a request to answer a question by the requester e.g. regarding a statistic opinion e.g. who was the best play at a specified position or a personal fact of the potential responder. Optionally the request may include text that the responder is to recite in the response e.g. where the text may include the name of a host of a show on which the content is to be used such as Hello Joe let me tell you what I think of the last play . . . . Such requests and responses may be processed as similarly discussed above and the content may be provided to the requester and or directly to a specified gift recipient e.g. via a video download file streaming media a DVD or otherwise .

Optionally the system enables users e.g. celebrities athletes etc. to create unsolicited content and offer the content to potential content consumers e.g. publishers individual end users etc. . The user may tag the content with appropriate descriptors. For example the tags may indicate the media type the media length the media content subject matter the user s credentials and or resume information e.g. the user s profession awards notable accomplishments area of expertise etc. the use fee etc. The user may also specify specific users e.g. producers or broadcasters of specific television shows and or specific types of users e.g. producers or broadcasters of sports programs to whom the content offer is to be made. The content offer may then be sent out to the potential consumer s as specified by the user.

Optionally the system may access accounts of potential consumers of the content and determine if the potential content consumers have requested to be notified when content that meets specified criteria has become available for publishing. The system may compare the specified criteria from one or more potential content consumers with the tags and if there is a sufficient match and optionally only if the potential consumers match the user s criteria notify potential content consumers of the content which they may accept or not accept as similarly described above and for which compensation may be paid as similarly discussed above.

For example an athlete may want to make a significant announcement by recording a video offering it via the system to different media partners. Optionally rather than offering an already recorded video the athlete offer may state a subject regarding which the athlete is willing to provide content on. For example if an athlete was recently in an accident which ended his professional playing career the offer may be an offer to record a video where the athlete would discuss his feelings and health. The offer may specify a price format e.g. encoding type e.g. MP4 AVI MOV etc. number of pixels in the height and width dimensions etc. and or length.

Optionally the system includes a bidding engine enabling potential content consumers to bid on the content or the offer to record the content . The auction winner s rights may include exclusive access to the content time limited exclusive access distribution limited access and non exclusive rights.

If the offer is an offer to record content an accepting media partner may specify a length format and content details that the media partner expects or requires with respect to the content to be recorded by the athlete. Optionally the athlete may refuse the media partner s acceptance if the requirements set forth by the media partner are not acceptable to the athlete.

The system operator may in certain embodiments retain or be paid a percentage of a fee paid by requestor or a sponsor or a flat fee for the use of a given item of content or a certain number of content items. The system operator may in certain embodiments be paid a portion of advertising and or sponsorship fees associated with the use of an item of content. The content contributors may optionally specify charities or other non profits to which some or all of the compensation due to the contributor may be contributed.

Optionally the system operator may submit requests to potential responders on its own behalf where the system operator may act as a publisher. For example the system operator may submit a question to multiple athletes regarding an event e.g. identify and discuss the most satisfying pitch you have thrown and assemble content from some or all the responses into a single item of content. The system operator may then license the assembled content and or the individual responses to a third party and or post the assembled content and or the individual responses on a site such as a publically accessible website.

Certain embodiments may track how many items of content a given user has submitted and or how many items of submitted content have been accepted. Such contributing users may be ranked based on such tracked information and the rankings may be published via social media e.g. social network blog etc. or otherwise. This may incentivize users to increase their content contributions and the quality of their content contributions.

Referring to an example process is illustrated. At state profile information for potential contributors is received and stored in a database as similarly described above. At state account information for potential content publishers is received and stored e.g. publisher name content information payment related information e.g. a payment source identifier such as a credit card or deposit account etc. . At state a request for content from a content publisher is received at a system. As discussed above the request may include criteria describing responders that should be targeted with the request e.g. an athlete that had achieved a specified milestone and the type of content desired e.g. a 2 minute video wherein the athlete describes his feels at achieving the milestone . The request may specify a deadline for providing a response the amount of compensation that will be paid a desired period of exclusivity the type of use to which the content will be put and or other information. The request may include content such as a video file or image or a link to a video file or image that responders are requested to provide comments on e.g. in the form of video comments in their submission. For example the video file may include a segment from a sporting event e.g. a knockout in a boxing match or a television show e.g. a statement from a guest on a talk show that the responders are being requested to provide comments on. For example the system operator may create a channel on a third party site that hosts video content.

By way of example a media request user interface may be provided to a potential content publisher. The user interface may ask to identify a field of interest e.g. sports entertainment etc. . If for example the content publisher selects sports a menu of sports sports leagues may be presented to the content publisher from which the content publisher may select. For example the menu may list MLB NBA NFL NHL and or other sports leagues. Based at least in part on the league sports selection the system may optionally select a sport attributes user interface to display to the publisher. For example the sport attributes user interface may list teams corresponding to the selected league player positions corresponding to the league sport e.g. baseball player positions football player positions etc. non player professions e.g. agent coach scout medical etc. from which the publisher may select. The publisher s selections may then be received and stored by the system as request criteria. Optionally the publisher may also have previously defined a favorites list of experts. A user interface may optionally be provided to the publisher listing the favorites that meet some or all of the other request criteria specified by the publisher where the publisher can select one or more of the favorites to whom the request should be sent to.

At state the system utilizes at least a portion of the requester specified criteria to identify profiles of potential contributors in the database that sufficiently match. At state the content request is transmitted to the identified matching potential contributors. At state responses are received by the system from one or more potential contributors. The content may optionally be stored with tags corresponding to some or all of the request criteria e.g. sport position player team etc. time stamped e.g. with date time of receipt and assigned a state of pending . At state the publisher is provided access to the response s including the content. The content may be watermarked before providing the publisher access to the content. At state the system receives a selection and acceptance of at least one response from the publisher. At state the system transmits a notification acceptance to the corresponding responder and optionally assigns the content a status of complete . At state the responder whose content was accepted is compensated and the publisher is charged for the content. Optionally the system operator also receives compensation as similarly described above. The publisher may then be provided the content without the watermark e.g. as a download file a link via streaming media or otherwise . At state a determination is made as to whether the period of exclusivity has ended. If the period of exclusivity has ended the content may be published via a social media platform and or offered to other publishers for publication.

Referring to an example environment and architecture is illustrated. A content distribution facilitation system includes a data store storing profiles of potential content contributors as similarly described above. The content distribution facilitation system may be configured to perform some or all of the functions and processes described above such as those discussed with respect to . The content distribution facilitation system may be coupled over a wired and or wireless network to one or more publisher systems and from which content requests may be received and to which content responses from content contributors may be provided. A content contributor system may be in the form of a mobile phone with a camera and a browser and or application installed to access the user interfaces discussed above to record requested content and to provide the recorded content to the content distribution facilitation system . The recorded content may then be published by a publisher system and viewed by a user such as a fan via a user terminal which may be a computer television or other terminal type.

Referring now to and example interface is illustrated enabling a user to register as a potential responder. The user interface includes fields configured to receive some or all of the following the user s name email address mobile phone number microblog user name for Twitter in this example a preference indication for how the user wants to be contacted e.g. email SMS phone etc. the user s profession expertise e.g. sports entertainment etc. and location e.g. where the user can enter high level location information such as North America South America Europe etc. . The information received by the user may then be stored by the system. As described elsewhere herein the location and profession information may be used by the system to determine which users should be sent a given request for content.

If the user indicated via the user interface illustrated in that the user is an non player but is involved in the sports field then a user interface may be provided asking the user to select a sport as similarly described above with respect to . For example a menu may be provided that presents certain sports and or sports leagues from which the user may select. A user interface may be provided asking the user to identify a non player profession e.g. by selected from a dropdown menu from a set of professions such as official agent medical coach scout management family journalist celebrity fan e.g. a movie star and optionally in what years for one or more of the teams selected via the user interface illustrated in .

If the user indicated via the user interface of that the user s profession is entertainment the system may select an entertainment user interface to be presented to the user to collect additional information. For example a menu may be presented asking the user to indicate what type of entertainer the user is e.g. actor musician comedian singer director producer agent etc. . The information received by the user may then be stored by the system.

Optionally when the responder activates the record button to initiate a video recording the request question and or text that the request instructs the responder to recite is positioned sized and or segmented by the application to be positioned near the responder device s camera lens. This will cause the responder s eyes to be looking at the lens region when reading questions and or text resulting in a better video. Optionally the application will only display one or two lines of text at a time the question text and or the text the responder is asked to recite adjacent to the lens e.g. just below the lens to better ensure that the responder s eyes are continuously directed to the camera lens area during the video recording. If the text is too long to display on one line or two lines adjacent to the lens the application may advance the text by scrolling the next portion of the text onto the device s display and scrolling off the previous portion of the text to ensure the next displayed text is also displayed adjacent to the lens. The scrolling or other technique for changing the text may be performed in response to detecting a responder text advance command automatically based on a desired pace of reading or otherwise.

Thus certain embodiments enable requests for content to selectively be submitted to a specific target group of potential responders such as athletes actors opinion leaders industry experts celebrities a social or working group or the like and further enable information and content received from responders to be distributed over one or more distribution channels.

Certain embodiments may be implemented via hardware software stored on media or a combination of hardware and software. For example certain embodiments may include software program instructions modules stored on tangible non transitory computer readable medium e.g. magnetic memory discs optical memory discs RAM ROM FLASH memory other semiconductor memory etc. accessible by one or more computing devices configured to execute the software e.g. servers or other computing device including one or more processors wired and or wireless network interfaces e.g. cellular Wi Fi Bluetooth T1 DSL cable optical or other interface s which may be coupled to the Internet content databases customer account databases etc. . Data stores e.g. comprising databases may be used to store some or all of the information discussed herein in memory.

By way of example a given computing device may optionally include user interface devices such as some or all of the following one or more displays keyboards touch screens speakers microphones mice track balls touch pads tilt sensors accelerometers biometric sensors e.g. fingerprint or face recognition sensors for authenticating a user printers etc. The computing device may optionally include a media read write device such as a CD DVD Blu ray tape magnetic disc semiconductor memory or other optical magnetic and or solid state media device. A computing device such as a user terminal may be in the form of a general purpose computer a personal computer a laptop a tablet computer a mobile or stationary telephone an interactive television a set top box coupled to a display etc. Certain embodiments may be able to conduct hundreds or more of transactions and processes described herein within a second.

While certain embodiments may be illustrated or discussed as having certain example components additional fewer or different components may be used. Processes described as being performed by a given system may be performed by a user terminal or other system or systems. Processes described as being performed by a user terminal may be performed by another system. Data described as being accessed from a given source may be stored by and accessed from other sources. Transmissions described herein may be via a wired and or wireless network or other communications link. Further with respect to the processes discussed herein various states may be performed in a different order not all states are required to be reached and fewer additional or different states may be utilized.

User interfaces described herein are optionally presented and user instructions may be received via a user computing device using a browser other network resource viewer or otherwise. For example the user interfaces may be presented and user optionally instructions received via an application sometimes referred to as an app such as a dedicated app configured specifically for social networking and or communications activities installed on the user s mobile phone laptop pad desktop television set top box phone or other terminal. For example an app may be downloaded to a user mobile device such as a smart phone. Various features described or illustrated as being present in different embodiments or user interfaces may be combined into the same embodiment or user interface.

Various aspects and advantages of the embodiments have been described where appropriate. It is to be understood that not necessarily all such aspects or advantages may be achieved in accordance with any particular embodiment. Thus for example it should be recognized that the various embodiments may be carried out in a manner that achieves or optimizes one advantage or group of advantages as taught herein without necessarily achieving other aspects or advantages as may be taught or suggested herein. Further embodiments may include several novel features no single one of which is solely responsible for the embodiment s desirable attributes or which is essential to practicing the systems devices methods and techniques described herein. In addition various features of different embodiments may be combined to form still further embodiments. For example aspects found in different user interfaces may be combined to form still further user interface.

