---

title: Apparatus systems and methods for securely sharing content with a plurality of receiving devices
abstract: Various embodiments facilitate secure content sharing between a plurality of receiving devices, such as set-top boxes. One embodiment is a system with a distribution server communicatively coupled via a satellite communication system to a plurality of set-top boxes that are located at different customer premises. The distribution server is operable to provide access control information via the satellite communication system to a first set-top box and a second set-top box of the plurality, with the access control information enabling the first set-top box to securely share content of the first set-top box with the second set-top box. This abstract is provided to comply with rules requiring an abstract, and it is submitted with the intention that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09571894&OS=09571894&RS=09571894
owner: EchoStar Technologies L.L.C.
number: 09571894
owner_city: Englewood
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150722
---
The technical field relates to data sharing and more particularly to apparatus systems and methods for sharing data content between a plurality of receiving devices such as set top boxes that are located at distinct user locations.

In one embodiment a system is provided to facilitate secure content sharing between a plurality of set top boxes. The system includes a satellite communication system a plurality of set top boxes communicatively coupled to the satellite communication system each set top box of the plurality of set top boxes being located at a distinct respective customer premises and a distribution server communicatively coupled to the satellite communication system the distribution server configured to provide access control information via the satellite communication system to a first set top box of the plurality of set top boxes and to at least a second set top box the access control information enabling the first set top box to share content of the first set top box with the second set top box.

The first set top box of the system being configured to receive via the satellite communication system from the distribution server the access control information to share content of the first set top box for use by the second set top box and to restrict access to the shared content based at least in part on the access control information received by the first set top box such that the second set top box has access to the shared content and other set top boxes of the plurality of set top boxes do not have access to the shared content and the second set top box being configured to receive via the satellite communication system from the distribution server the access control information and to access the shared content of the first set top box based at least in part on the access control information received by the second set top box.

In another embodiment a method for securely sharing data is provided. The method includes under control of a first set top box located at a first customer premises receiving first access control information via a content distribution system sharing data of the first set top box for use by a second set top box the second set top box being located at a distinct second customer premises the second set top box having received second access control information via the content distribution system and restricting based at least in part on the first access control information access to the shared data in such a manner that the second set top box can access the shared data based at least in part on the second access control information.

In some embodiments the method may include under control of the second set top box determining a second cryptographic key based on the second access control information receiving the shared data from the first set top box restricted for access by the second set top box and decrypting at least a portion of the shared data with the second cryptographic key.

In another embodiment a method is provided to facilitate secure content sharing between a plurality of set top boxes. The method includes under control of a distribution server receiving a request to enable access for a second set top box to content of a first set top box the first set top box located in a first customer premises and the second set top box located in a second customer premises distinct from the first customer premises and providing to the first and second set top boxes via a program distribution system access control information that enables the first and second set top boxes to securely share content.

Although various embodiments of the secure content sharing system are discussed with respect to a satellite communication system network the various described techniques may apply to other types of content distribution systems including but not limited to cable systems fiber optic systems telephony systems and the like. In addition in various embodiments a content distribution system may provide various types of content including but not limited to audio e.g. music audio books etc. video e.g. television programs movies user generated content etc. and other data content.

Audio video and or data service providers such as but not limited to television service providers provide their customers located at one or more customer premises a multitude of audio video and or data programming hereafter collectively and or exclusively programming . Such programming is often provided by use of a receiving device communicatively coupled to a presentation device configured to receive the programming.

Receiving device interconnects to one or more communications media or sources such as a cable head end satellite antenna telephone company switch Ethernet portal off air antenna or the like that provide the programming. The receiving device commonly receives a plurality of programming by way of the communications media or sources described in greater detail below. Based upon selection by the user the receiving device processes and communicates the selected programming to the one or more presentation devices .

For convenience the receiving device may be interchangeably referred to as a television converter receiver set top box television receiving device television receiver television recording device satellite set top box satellite receiver cable set top box cable receiver media player and or television tuner. Accordingly the receiving device may be any suitable converter device or electronic equipment that is operable to receive programming. Further the receiving device may itself include user interface devices such as buttons or switches. In many applications a remote is operable to control the presentation device and other user devices .

Examples of a presentation device include but are not limited to a television TV a personal computer PC a sound system receiver a digital video recorder DVR a compact disk CD device game system or the like. Presentation devices employ a display one or more speakers and or other output devices to communicate video and or audio content to a user. In many implementations one or more presentation devices reside in or near a customer s premises and are communicatively coupled directly or indirectly to the receiving device . Further the receiving device and the presentation device may be integrated into a single device. Such a single device may have the above described functionality of the receiving device and the presentation device or may even have additional functionality.

A plurality of content providers provide program content such as television content or audio content to a distributor such as the program distributor . Example content providers include television stations which provide local or national television programming special content providers which provide premium based programming or pay per view programming or radio stations which provide audio programming.

Program content interchangeably referred to as a program is communicated to the program distributor from the content providers through suitable communication media generally illustrated as communication system for convenience. Communication system may include many different types of communication media now known or later developed. Non limiting media examples include telephony systems the Internet internets intranets cable systems fiber optic systems microwave systems asynchronous transfer mode ATM systems frame relay systems digital subscriber line DSL systems radio frequency RF systems and satellite systems. Further program content communicated from the content providers to the program distributor may be communicated over combinations of media. For example a television broadcast station may initially communicate program content via an RF signal or other suitable medium that is received and then converted into a digital signal suitable for transmission to the program distributor over a fiber optics system. As another nonlimiting example an audio content provider may communicate audio content via its own satellite system to the program distributor .

In at least one embodiment the received program content is converted by one or more devices not shown as necessary at the program distributor into a suitable signal that is communicated i.e. uplinked by one or more antennae to one or more satellites separately illustrated herein from although considered part of the communication system . It is to be appreciated that the communicated uplink signal may contain a plurality of multiplexed programs. The uplink signal is received by the satellite and then communicated i.e. downlinked from the satellite in one or more directions for example onto a predefined portion of the planet. It is appreciated that the format of the above described signals are adapted as necessary during the various stages of communication.

A receiver antenna that is within reception range of the downlink signal communicated from satellite receives the above described downlink signal. A wide variety of receiver antennae are available. Some types of receiver antenna are operable to receive signals from a single satellite . Other types of receiver antenna are operable to receive signals from multiple satellites and or from terrestrial based transmitters.

The receiver antenna can be located at a customer premises . Examples of customer premises include a residence a business or any other suitable location operable to receive signals from satellite . The received signal is communicated typically over a hard wire connection to a receiving device . The receiving device is a conversion device that converts also referred to as formatting the received signal from antenna into a signal suitable for communication to a presentation device and or a user device . Often the receiver antenna is of a parabolic shape that may be mounted on the side or roof of a structure. Other antenna configurations can include but are not limited to phased arrays wands or other dishes. In some embodiments the receiver antenna may be remotely located from the customer premises . For example the antenna may be located on the roof of an apartment building such that the received signals may be transmitted after possible recoding via cable or other mechanisms such as Wi Fi to the customer premises .

The received signal communicated from the receiver antenna to the receiving device is a relatively weak signal that is amplified and processed or formatted by the receiving device . The amplified and processed signal is then communicated from the receiving device to a presentation device in a suitable format such as a television TV or the like and or to a user device . It is to be appreciated that presentation device may be any suitable device operable to present a program having video information and or audio information.

User device may be any suitable device that is operable to receive a signal from the receiving device another endpoint device or from other devices external to the customer premises . Additional non limiting examples of user device include optical media recorders such as a compact disk CD recorder a digital versatile disc or digital video disc DVD recorder a digital video recorder DVR or a personal video recorder PVR . User device may also include game devices magnetic tape type recorders RF transceivers and personal computers PCs .

Interface between the receiving device and a user not shown may be provided by a hand held remote device . Remote typically communicates with the receiving device using a suitable wireless medium such as infrared IR RF or the like. Other devices not shown may also be communicatively coupled to the receiving device so as to provide user instructions. Non limiting examples include game device controllers keyboards pointing devices and the like.

The receiving device may receive programming partially from or entirely from another source other than the above described receiver antenna . Other embodiments of the receiving device may receive locally broadcast RF signals or may be coupled to communication system via any suitable medium. Non limiting examples of medium communicatively coupling the receiving device to communication system include cable fiber optic or Internet media.

Customer premises may include other devices which are communicatively coupled to communication system via a suitable media. For example but not limited to some customer premises include an optional network or a networked system to which receiving devices presentation devices and or a variety of user devices can be coupled collectively referred to as endpoint devices. Non limiting examples of network include but are not limited to an Ethernet twisted pair Ethernet an intranet a local area network LAN system or the like. One or more endpoint devices such as PCs data storage devices TVs game systems sound system receivers Internet connection devices digital subscriber loop DSL devices wireless LAN WiFi Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMax or the like are communicatively coupled to network so that the plurality of endpoint devices are communicatively coupled together. Thus the network allows the interconnected endpoint devices and the receiving device to communicate with each other. Alternatively or in addition some devices in the customer premises may be directly connected to the communication system such as the telephone which may employ a hardwire connection or an RF signal for coupling to communication system .

A plurality of information providers are coupled to communication system . Information providers may provide various forms of content and or services to the various devices residing in the customer premises such as receiving device user device and or PC . For example information provider may provide requested information of interest to such devices such as audio video and or other types of data. Information providers may further perform various transactions on behalf of a user of a receiving device such as when a user purchases a product or service via a receiving device and or one or more other devices of the user.

The above description of the communication system and the customer premises and the various devices therein is intended as a broad non limiting overview of an example environment in which various embodiments of a secure content sharing system may be implemented. The communication system and the various devices therein may contain other devices systems and or media not specifically described herein. The customer premises may differ from one customer to another may contain fewer more and or other devices systems and or media than those described herein.

As noted above the content providers the information providers and or the program distributor may provide program content and or various other types of content to a receiving device . In some embodiments the content providers the information providers and or the program distributor may restrict access to program content and or other types of content such that distributed content may only be viewed by and or otherwise accessed by authorized users. In some instances access to program content may be controlled by encrypting the program content such that only authorized devices and or users may access the program content. For example if the program distributor provides content via a satellite network comprising antenna and satellite then any person in possession of a receiving device may receive the signal or signals carrying the program content and thereby access the program content. In order to control access to the program content the program distributor may encrypt the program content prior to its transmission such that even if an unauthorized receiving device receives the program content it cannot access the program content unless it can obtain one or more appropriate decryption keys.

The receiving device may store or otherwise have access to program content and or other types of content received from various sources e.g. content providers information providers program distributor such as for use by a user of the receiving device. For example in some embodiments the receiving device may store program content such as for playback to a user of the receiving device using DVR PVR technology pay per view services and the like. Program content may include television programs movies etc. and or portions thereof e.g. clips . In addition the receiving device may store or otherwise have access to various other types of content that may be presented by or otherwise used by a receiving device such as including other audio video content e.g. user generated content audio content e.g. music image content e.g. photographs and or various other types of information. In various embodiments such program content and other content may be stored on various storage medium accessible to the receiving device including one or more hard disks included in the receiving device and or other devices that the receiving device may access via a communication link e.g. user device PC and or other storage media including removable storage media .

The various embodiments disclosed herein provide techniques to facilitate secure sharing of program content and or other content stored on and or otherwise accessible to a receiving device located at a customer premises with a group of one or more other receiving devices located at one or more other customer premises such that the group of one or more other receiving devices may present or otherwise utilize the shared content. For example such techniques may allow a customer A to share such content of a receiving device located at customer A s premises with a group of one or more other customers e.g. friends family etc. located at other customer premises such that the one or more other customers may obtain the shared content for presentation and or use by receiving devices located at the premises of the one or more other customers. After having received and or otherwise acquired shared content from customer A s receiving device the shared content may be presented by or otherwise used by the receiving devices of the one or more other customers such as for presentation on an associated presentation device e.g. presentation device displaying on a television or other display playing on a speaker or the like. Shared content of a receiving device located at a first customer premises may be provided to or otherwise obtained by a group of other receiving devices located at other customer premises in various ways in various embodiments. For example in some embodiments shared content may be transmitted between receiving devices such as via a communication network e.g. communication system or portions thereof . In some embodiments shared content may be transported between receiving devices using various other data transmission and or transfer techniques including via removable storage media and the like.

In some embodiments access to shared content of a customer s receiving device may be restricted such that only groups of one or more other receiving devices that are authorized to access the shared content may access or otherwise use the shared content. In at least some such embodiments access to shared content of a first receiving device may be restricted for use by a group of one or more authorized receiving devices by providing access control information to the first receiving device that enables the first receiving device to encrypt content that it shares with the group of one or more authorized receiving devices and separately providing access control information to the group of one or more other authorized receiving devices that enables such devices to decrypt content that has been encrypted by the first receiving device. Thus in such an embodiment only receiving devices that have been provided with the appropriate access control information may decrypt content that is shared by the first receiving device. In some embodiments access control information is provided by a program distributor to the various receiving devices via a satellite network comprising antenna and satellite . In addition in at least some embodiments some or all of the described techniques are performed by an embodiment of a secure content sharing system such as described in greater detail below.

Example embodiments described herein provide applications tools data structures and other support to implement a secure content sharing system. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth such as data formats code sequences and the like in order to provide a thorough understanding of the described techniques. Various of the embodiments described can be practiced without some of the specific details described herein or with other specific details such as changes with respect to the ordering of the code flow different code flows and the like. Thus the scope of the techniques and or functions described are not limited by the particular order selection or decomposition of steps described with reference to any particular module component or routine.

Each of the receiving devices is located at a respective one of the customer premises and receives programming and or other data provided by the program distributor via the satellite network for use of an associated customer of the particular customer premises. For example the one or more receiving devices located at customer premises receive programming and or other data provided by the program distributor for use of a customer located with the customer premises the one or more receiving devices located at a customer premises receive programming and or other data provided by the program distributor for use of a customer located with the customer premises and so on. The satellite network is part of a satellite distribution system and may include for example the antenna and the satellite described with respect to .

Various of the receiving devices are interacting with various other of the receiving devices via the other communication network such as to securely share content of the receiving devices in accordance with various of the described techniques as well as interacting with the content sharing access service to specify or otherwise manage secure content sharing groups. The other communication network may be for example a publicly accessible network of linked networks possibly operated by various distinct parties e.g. the Internet a private network e.g. corporate university etc. that is wholly or partially inaccessible to non privileged users one or more private networks with access to and or from other private and or public networks and or the like. Although not illustrated here the satellite network and the other communication network may be provided as part of the communication system described with respect to .

As previously noted various of the receiving devices may be grouped into secure content sharing groups. A secure content sharing group may for example include a group of two or more receiving devices located at different customer premises wherein at least one of the receiving devices shares content stored on and or accessible to the receiving device with the other receiving devices in the secure content sharing group such that only the other receiving devices in the group are authorized to access or otherwise use the shared content. Access to shared content may be restricted such that only the receiving devices in the secure content sharing group may access or otherwise use the shared content. A receiving device that shares content with other receiving devices in a secure content sharing group is variously referred to as a sharing device and or a sharing receiving device in various embodiments. In some embodiments a secure content sharing group may be configured to include only a single sharing device that shares its content with the other receiving devices in the group with the other receiving devices being authorized to access content shared by the single sharing device. In other embodiments a secure content sharing group may include multiple sharing devices that share content with the other receiving devices in the group and or may be configured such that all receiving devices in the group share content with each other. Furthermore in some embodiments a receiving device may be included in multiple different secure content sharing groups such as a receiving device that has been authorized to access shared content of multiple sharing devices.

As one illustrative example of a secure content sharing group the secure content sharing group includes the receiving devices and located at customer premises and respectively. In this group the receiving device shares content with the receiving device which has been authorized to access or otherwise use shared content of the receiving device . Additional receiving devices may be added or otherwise included in the secure content sharing group such that the additional receiving device may also be authorized to access or use various shared content of receiving device . For example the receiving device may be added to the secure content sharing group after which the receiving device is authorized to access or otherwise use content shared by the receiving device . Although not illustrated in various other secure content sharing groups may exist and or be created. For example a secure content sharing group may be formed that includes receiving device as a sharing device and receiving device and or any number of other receiving devices not shown as devices that are authorized to access shared content of the sharing device etc.

As part of configuring a secure content sharing group the content sharing access service interacts via the satellite network with the various receiving devices that are included in the secure content group such as to provide access control information to the receiving devices to enable the secure content sharing group to share encrypted content that only receiving devices in the group may access. The content sharing access service provides access control information to a receiving device to enable the receiving device to encrypt content that it shares with other receiving devices included in the secure content sharing group. Such access control information may cause and or otherwise allow the receiving device to determine a cryptographic key to use for encrypting content that it shares with other receiving devices in the group. The content sharing access service also provides access control information to other one or more receiving devices such as receiving device that are included in the secure content sharing group to enable such other receiving devices to decrypt content that has been encrypted by the sharing receiving device for use by device in the content sharing group. Such access control information may cause and or otherwise allow such receiving devices to determine a cryptographic key to use for decrypting the shared content that the sharing receiving device has encrypted. Of course if other receiving devices are added to the content sharing group such as receiving device the content sharing access service provides access control information via the satellite network to the other receiving devices to enable such receiving device to decrypt content shared by the receiving device

After a content sharing group has been configured to share encrypted content that only receiving devices in the group may access the receiving devices in the group may share the encrypted content in various ways in various embodiments. In some embodiments the sharing receiving device may transmit encrypted shared content to one or more other receiving devices in the shared content group e.g. receiving device via a communication network such as the other communication network and or the satellite network such as by using various data transmission protocols e.g. TCP IP FTP HTTP and the like . For example in some such embodiments the receiving device in the content sharing group may interact with the sharing receiving device via the other communication network to request one or more pieces of shared content from the receiving device with the receiving device responding to the request by encrypting the requested content pieces for access by the receiving device and providing the encrypted content to the receiving device via the other communication network . After the receiving device receives the encrypted content from the receiving device it may decrypt the content for presentation and or other use by the content receiving device . In other embodiments the sharing receiving device may store encrypted shared content on a removable storage media e.g. USB CDROM etc or other storage media that may be provided to or otherwise made accessible to the one or more other receiving devices in the content sharing group.

Additional details related to configuring receiving devices to share content in a secure content sharing group and related to secure content sharing are described below and with respect to .

A secure content sharing group may be created in various ways in various embodiments. In one exemplary embodiment the content sharing access service provides capabilities that enable customers to specify and or manage secure content sharing groups via receiving devices of the customers with the content sharing access service configuring the various receiving devices in the secure content sharing groups according to such customer specification. In some such embodiments a customer may interact with the content sharing access service to indicate one or more other customers with whom the customer authorizes to share content of a receiving device of the customer. As a result of such interactions the content sharing access service may determine the various receiving devices that are in the created secure content sharing group e.g. by accessing a customer database that includes such information etc. and interact with the various receiving devices in the created secure content sharing group via the satellite network to provide access control information to the receiving devices such as described above. As one illustrative example a customer associated with the customer premises may interact with the content sharing access service via the other communication network to create the secure content sharing group such as by providing information and or otherwise indicating that the customer wishes to share content of the receiving device with the receiving device associated with a customer associated with the customer premises . After receiving such indications the content sharing access service provides access control information to the receiving devices and to enable those receiving devices to share encrypted content with the secure content sharing group . At a later time customer may interact with the content sharing access service to add one or more other receiving devices to the group with content sharing access service providing access control information to the added receiving devices to enable them to share content within the group.

The content sharing access service may facilitate the various types of interactions by customers in various ways in various embodiments such as including programmatic interactions based on an API Application Programming Interface provided by the content sharing access service and or interactive interactions based on a graphical user interface provided to customers e.g. via one or more Web pages hosted by the content sharing access service via a client side application of the executing on a receiving device and or other computing device of a customer etc. . Although an embodiment has been described that includes a customer interacting with the content sharing service via the other communication network to specify groups of receiving devices that the customer wishes to share content with other embodiments are possible. For example in some embodiments a customer may interact with the content sharing access service to specify secure content sharing groups in other ways such as by telephoning a customer representative of the program distributor etc.

In some embodiments the content sharing access service may provide other information to the receiving devices in the secure content group to facilitate formation of a secure content sharing group such as identifiers that may be used to determine a location of where shared content resides e.g. a network address of a sharing device etc. as well as other information that may be used to identify receiving devices that are in the secure content sharing group etc. Such other information may be provided to the receiving devices in various ways such as via the satellite network the other communication network etc.

Although a satellite network is provided in the illustrated embodiment of it will be appreciated that in other embodiments of a secure content sharing system other program distribution systems networks may be used such as including but not limited to cable systems fiber optic systems telephony systems and the like. In addition in some embodiments the content sharing access service may interact with the plurality of receiving devices to facilitate secure content sharing via the other communication network .

As previously noted the content shared may be a recorded video program a DVD an audio file or some other electronic content. The following are examples that may be carried out according to various embodiments. Customer may have watched a particular program of high interest for example the Super Bowl the final show of American Idol or a particular classic movie. The program may have been recorded on the local DVR or hard disk located in the receiving device at customer premises. Customer may have indicated that such a recorded program is available for access to receiving devices in a content sharing group. At some later time customer who has been authorized to access shared content of customer may wish to view the program that is stored on customer s receiving device . In this case customer may obtain a copy of the particular recorded program such as by interacting with customer s receiving device via customer s receiving device to request access to the particular recorded program with the particular program being encrypted for use by customer s receiving device and then provided to customer s receiving device for viewing such as variously described herein.

A particular example of the use of the system is as follows. Assume that customer is having a Super Bowl party at his home. He invites a number of guests including relatives neighbors and friends to watch the Super Bowl together at his home. This is customer premises . Among the guests who attend are his sister and her family who live a few miles away. The Super Bowl party is enjoyed by those who attend as they watch the plays the replays and commercials. Customer records the Super Bowl on his local hard disk or DVD inside his receiving device while it is being transmitted so it is now stored in his local machine in his premises for replay when ever he wishes. After the party is over the guests return to their individual homes. The sister had intended to set her local set top box to record before going to the Super Bowl party but neglected to do so. Therefore when she attempts to watch some of the Super Bowl events at her own home she is not able to do so. Both have the same satellite network provider for example Dish Network provided by DISH Network LLC of Englewood Colo. The sister is customer at premises . At sometime prior the brother and sister had joined a common customer group with the satellite network provider for which they may have paid a different fee and may have a different monthly payment structure. They are both in the same Secure Content Sharing group . Using the content sharing access service as described herein the sister may obtain a copy of the Super Bowl recorded on her brother s receiving device for viewing on her receiving device . Similarly customer can send video programs audio programs movies and other data from her receiving device to customer s receiving device using the system described herein. Customers and can exchange various video programs with each other they wish using the system described herein.

Assume other people at the same Super Bowl party are not part of the same secure content sharing group . Such people will not be able to access the recorded version of the Super Bowl for customer even if they have the same satellite network provider. Unless the proper authorizations have been provided the customer would not be able to exchange recorded data or video program information with them. Without the proper codes and authorization access provided by the program distributor such sharing is not permitted.

In particular illustrates a content sharing access service providing access control information via a satellite network to a receiving device located at a customer premises and providing access control information to a receiving device located at a customer premises such as to enable the receiving device to securely share content with the receiving device such as in a secure content sharing group . In this example the content sharing access service has received an indication to enable a content sharing group that includes the receiving device as a sharing receiving device and the receiving device as a receiving device that is authorized to access content shared by the receiving device such as for example in response to an indication by a customer associated with the customer premises to create such a group.

The content sharing access service determines appropriate access control information to provide to the various receiving devices in the secure content sharing group such that the receiving devices may exchange encrypted content that only the receiving devices in the secure content group may access and provides the appropriate information to the various receiving devices via the satellite network . In this illustrated example the content sharing access service provides access control information to the receiving device that enables or otherwise instructs the receiving device to determine an appropriate encryption key to use for sharing content with one or more other receiving devices included the secure content sharing group such as the receiving device . The content sharing access service also provides access control information to the receiving device that enables or otherwise instructs the receiving device to determine an appropriate decryption key to use for accessing shared content of the receiving device

In some embodiments the encryption key and the decryption key may be symmetric keys e.g. such as shared secret keys and in such embodiments the receiving device encrypts content for use by the receiving devices in the secure content sharing group using a symmetric key algorithm such as DES Data Encryption Standard Triple DES AES Advanced Encryption Standard Blowfish RC5 RC5 RC66 Vernam Ciphers or the like. In other embodiments the encryption key and the decryption key may be an asymmetric key pair and in such embodiments the receiving device encrypts content for use by the receiving devices in the secure content sharing group using an asymmetric algorithm such as RSA Rivest Shamir Adelman ElGamal or the like.

In some embodiments the access control information may include an identifier or information that is uniquely associated with the secure content sharing group e.g. such as a randomly generated identifier a customer identifier an identifier associated with the sharing receiving device etc. such that the receiving devices may individually generate and or otherwise obtain an appropriate cryptographic key to use with the secure content sharing group. For example in some embodiments access control information and may include a unique identifier that is associated with the content sharing group with each of the receiving devices and using that information to seed a key generation algorithm to generate an appropriate cryptographic key e.g. receiving device generates an encryption key and receiving device generates a decryption key . In some such embodiments the access control information may also include indications of one or more key generation algorithms techniques to use for generating cryptographic keys.

In other embodiments the access control information may otherwise indicate one or more keys for the receiving devices to use in the secure content sharing group. For example the access control information and may indicate keys that are currently stored e.g. in a cryptographic key storage hardware in memory on disk etc. or otherwise available to the receiving devices. In some embodiments the access control information may include the appropriate cryptographic keys such as access control information may include the encryption key and access control information may include the decryption key.

In some embodiments the access control information may include various other information. For example in some embodiments the access control information and may include indications of an encryption algorithm to use for encrypting decrypting shared content indications of where to obtain shared content e.g. network address of the sharing device access identifiers to use in obtaining providing shared content etc. In some situations and embodiments the access control information and may contain the same information and or may contain different information.

As previously noted the content sharing access service determines appropriate access control information to provide to the receiving devices in a secure content sharing group. In some embodiments such information may be stored in a database and or other storage medium in association with the access control group such that the content sharing access service may obtain appropriate access control information from such storage when configuring various receiving devices to participate in the secure content sharing group. When the content sharing access service receives indications to add other devices not shown to the content sharing group the content sharing access service determines the appropriate access control information associated with the secure content sharing group e.g. obtains from storage and provides such information to the addition receiving devices via the satellite network .

In some embodiments the access control information which enables the receiving device to encrypt shared content for the secure content sharing group may be provided to the receiving device prior to adding other receiving devices such as the receiving device to the secure content group . For example in some embodiments the receiving device may be preconfigured by the content sharing access service to encrypt shared content for other devices in the secure content sharing group .

Various other embodiments may include various other features and or functionality. In some embodiments the access control information itself may be encrypted by the content sharing access service prior to being provided to the various receiving devices in the secure content sharing group such that only the receiving devices that are intended to receive the access control information may access such encrypted information. For example the access control information may be encrypted by way of an identifier or key such as a subscription key service key user key hardware identifier or the like that is uniquely associated with the receiving device such that only the receiving device may decrypt the content. Access control information may be similarly encrypted for access by the receiving device . In addition in some embodiments the access control information and or cryptographic keys may be periodically changed updated for a secure content sharing group and in such cases the content sharing access service may provide new access control information to the various receiving devices in the secure content sharing group.

The receiving device includes content sharing logic content and content sharing information including an encryption key . The content sharing logic when executed by the receiving device enables the receiving devices to securely share content of the receiving device with other receiving devices in a secure content sharing group such as receiving device . The content includes programming content and or other content that is stored on or otherwise accessible to the receiving device some of which may be shared by the receiving device . The content sharing information includes information related to one or more content sharing groups that the receiving device may be included in. For example in this illustrated embodiment the content sharing information includes the encryption key that the receiving device uses to encrypt content that it shares with receiving devices in the secure content sharing group .

The receiving device includes content sharing logic content and content sharing information including a decryption key . The content sharing logic when executed by the receiving device enables the receiving devices to access or otherwise obtain content shared by the receiving device . The content includes programming content and or other content that is stored on or otherwise accessible to the receiving device including content that the receiving device has obtained from one or more other receiving devices such as receiving device . The content sharing information includes information related to one or more content sharing groups that the receiving device may be included in. For example in this illustrated embodiment the content sharing information includes the decryption key that the receiving device uses to decrypt content that the receiving device shares with receiving devices in the secure content sharing group .

In this particular example the receiving devices and have respectively received access control information and from the content sharing access service such as illustrated in . In response to receiving access control information the receiving devices has determined the encryption key to use for encrypting content such as content that the receiving device shares with other receiving devices in the secure content sharing group such as receiving device . For example the content sharing logic may include logic for generating and or otherwise obtaining the encryption key based on the received access control information and may store the encryption key for later use in encrypting shared content. Similarly in response to receiving access control information the receiving device has determined the decryption key to use for decrypting content that the receiving device shares in the secure content sharing group and has stored the decryption key for later use in decrypting such content.

The receiving device receives requests and or other indications to share one or more pieces of content with a receiving device in the secure content sharing group . In response to such requests the receiving device determines an appropriate encryption key to use for encrypting the requested content such as the encryption key associated with the secure content sharing group . After the appropriate encryption key has been determined the receiving device encrypts the requested content using the encryption key and provides the encrypted requested content for use by the receiving device

When encrypting requested shared content the receiving device may encrypt some or all of the requested content using the encryption key . For example in some embodiments the receiving device may only encrypt audio and or video tracks of content that includes both audio and video tracks may encrypt one or more segments of a video audio track e.g. every other second etc. In some embodiments the requested content may already be encrypted such as by the program distributor or other content provider who provided the content to the receiving device . In some such cases when the receiving device shares such requested content the receiving device may not encrypt the content itself as it is already encrypted but may instead encrypt one or more cryptographic keys that may be used to decrypt the requested content using the encryption key and provides those encrypted keys along with the requested content.

The encrypted content may be provided to the receiving device in various ways in various embodiments. For example in some embodiments the receiving device may send the encrypted content directly to the receiving device via a communication network such as by sending writing streaming transmitting etc. In other embodiments the receiving device may post the encrypted shared content to a network server e.g. a file server etc. for download by the receiving device . In still other embodiments the receiving device may write the encrypted content onto a removable storage media that may subsequently be transported to the receiving device

In some embodiments the content sharing logic and or enables the receiving devices and respectively to interactively share content such as over a communication network e.g. the other communication network of . For example in some such embodiments the receiving device may interact via a communication network with the receiving device to request shared content with the receiving device encrypting and providing the requested shared content to the receiving device in response to such a request.

After the receiving device receives or otherwise obtains the encrypted content the receiving device may determine an appropriate decryption key to use with such content shared by the receiving device such as the decryption key associated with the secure content sharing group and decrypts the content . After the content has been decrypted the receiving device may present and or otherwise use the content as appropriate.

Although this embodiment has been described in terms of one way sharing from receiving device to receiving device other embodiments are possible. In some embodiments the access control information provided by the content sharing access service may enable the receiving devices in the content sharing group to share content in a two way manner such that each of the devices in the group may encrypt and share content that other receiving devices in the group may decrypt. For example as illustrated in the receiving device may optionally obtain shared content from the receiving device . In some such embodiments the receiving device may be able to perform both encryption and decryption using the encryption key while the receiving device may be able to perform both encryption and decryption using the decryption key although in other embodiments other keys not shown may have been determined from the access control information provided to the respective receiving devices and that may be used for such purposes of two way sharing. In still other embodiments an additional secure content sharing group may formed not shown in addition to the content sharing group that includes the receiving device as the sharing device and the receiving device as a device that obtains shared content from the receiving device with access control information being provided by the content sharing access service as appropriate to enable such secure sharing between the additional group.

In some embodiments the sharing logic and or may enable a customer to configure or other manage secure content sharing groups. For example the sharing logic may enable a customer to interact with an embodiment of the content sharing access service to specify manage one or more content sharing groups. In other embodiments the content sharing logic and or may enable customers to control access to various content of a receiving device. For example the content sharing logic may provide functionality that allows a customer user interacting with the receiving device to specify or otherwise indicate particular content that the customer user wishes to share such as by specifying particular pieces of content e.g. a particular program album song photo album picture etc. particular categories of content e.g. by type such as programming music photo albums etc by ratings such as PG TV PG etc and the like etc. In a similar fashion the content sharing logic may also enable a customer user of the receiving device to mark or otherwise indicate content that is not to be shared. In addition the content sharing logic may enable the customer user to provide and or restrict various shared content for use by particular other receiving devices in a secure content sharing group such as by enabling the customer user to specify which of the shared content e.g. particular content types of content etc. each of the one or more of the other receiving devices in the secure content sharing group are allowed to access. For example the customer may use such functionality to permit customer s receiving device to access all shared content while restricting access to such shared content for another receiving device in the secure content sharing group to children s programming and or particular photo albums etc.

In addition the cryptographic keys encryption key and decryption key determined respectively by the receiving devices and based on the provide access control information and may be used in other ways in other embodiments of a secure content sharing group. For example in some embodiments the receiving devices and may use their respective cryptographic key for the purposes of authenticating each other and or other receiving devices in the secure content sharing group . For example the receiving devices and may authenticate the identity of the other device using their cryptographic keys to generate validate digital signatures. In some such embodiments after a receiving device has authenticated the identity of the other receiving device as being part of the secure content sharing group or vice versa the receiving device may provide other services and or functionality for use by the receiving device

In one embodiment the receiving device computing system is configured to receive and display programming on a presentation device. In addition the receiving device may comprise one or more distinct computing systems devices and may span distributed locations. Furthermore each block shown may represent one or more such blocks as appropriate to a specific embodiment or may be combined with other blocks. Also the content sharing logic may be implemented in software hardware firmware or in some combination to achieve the capabilities described herein.

In the embodiment shown the receiving device computing system comprises a computer memory memory a display one or more Central Processing Units CPU Input Output devices e.g. keyboard mouse CRT or LCD display and the like other computer readable media and network connections . Content sharing logic is shown residing in memory . In other embodiments some portion of the contents of the content sharing logic may be stored on and or transmitted over the other computer readable media . The content sharing logic preferably executes on one or more CPUs to securely share and or access shared content and or to configure the receiving device to perform operations related secure content sharing as described herein. Other code or programs e.g. a user interface UI manager an audio video processing module a program guide manager module a Web server and the like and potentially other data repositories such as data repository also reside in the memory and preferably execute on one or more CPUs . Of note one or more of the components in may not be present in any specific implementation. For example some embodiments may not provide other computer readable media etc. The other receiving devices may include similar components and or blocks to those described with respect to the receiving device although such are not shown in here.

The content sharing logic performs various of the described functionality of the receiving device related to secure content sharing such as describe with respect to above. For example the content sharing logic may receive and or otherwise obtain access control information such as provided via the communication system and determine based on such information a cryptographic content key to use for secure content sharing and or access shared content generate as well as perform encryption decryption as appropriate for sharing content in a secure content sharing group. In addition the content sharing logic may interact via the communication system with one or more other receiving devices and possibly with the server computing system and or with other computing systems or devices not shown to perform various of the described operations related to secure content sharing.

The data repositories may include content such as programming content and or other types of content obtained from a program distributor not shown and or one or more other computing systems e.g. content providers information providers from such as via communication system . The content may be received from various other sources including the other computer readable media and or other computing systems or devices not shown such as computing systems devices located at a customer premises with the receiving device etc. As discussed elsewhere such content may include programming clips audio video audio images and or other data files etc. In at least one embodiment at least some of the content included in the data repositories may be encrypted for restricted access by the receiving device computing system e.g. by a program distributor or other content provider and may include one or more corresponding encryption keys that are usable for decrypting at least portions such content.

In this illustrated embodiment the server computing system comprises a memory one or more CPUs Input Output devices e.g. keyboard mouse CRT or LCD display and the like and or various other components not shown e.g. computer readable media network connections etc. The content sharing access service preferably executes on one or more CPUs to configure and or specify one or more secure content sharing groups as described herein. Furthermore each block shown may represent one or more such blocks as appropriate to a specific embodiment or may be combined with other blocks. Also the content sharing access service may be implemented in software hardware firmware or in some combination to achieve the capabilities described herein.

The content sharing access service performs various of the described functionality as described in . In particular the content sharing access service may interact with the receiving device and other receiving devices via the communication system such as to configure and or otherwise manage receiving devices to participate in secure content sharing groups.

In an example embodiment components modules of the content sharing logic and or the Content Sharing Access Service are implemented using standard programming techniques. For example the content sharing logic and or the Content Sharing Access Service may be implemented as native executables running on the CPU and CPU respectively along with one or more static or dynamic libraries. In other embodiments the content sharing logic and or the Content Sharing Access Service may be implemented as instructions processed by virtual machine. In general a range of programming languages known in the art may be employed for implementing such example embodiments including representative implementations of various programming language paradigms including but not limited to object oriented e.g. Java C C Visual Basic.NET Smalltalk and the like functional e.g. ML Lisp Scheme and the like procedural e.g. C Pascal Ada Modula and the like scripting e.g. Perl Ruby Python JavaScript VBScript and the like declarative e.g. SQL Prolog and the like .

The embodiments described above may also use well known or proprietary synchronous or asynchronous client server computing techniques. However the various components may be implemented using more monolithic programming techniques as well for example as an executable running on a single CPU computer system or alternatively decomposed using a variety of structuring techniques known in the art including but not limited to multiprogramming multithreading client server or peer to peer running on one or more computer systems each having one or more CPUs. Some embodiments may execute concurrently and asynchronously and communicate using message passing techniques. Equivalent synchronous embodiments are also supported by an HDM implementation. Also other functions could be implemented and or performed by each component module and in different orders and by different components modules yet still achieve the functions of the HDM.

Different configurations and locations of programs and data are contemplated for use with techniques of described herein. A variety of distributed computing techniques are appropriate for implementing the components of the illustrated embodiments in a distributed manner including but not limited to TCP IP sockets RPC RMI HTTP Web Services XML RPC JAX RPC SOAP and the like . Other variations are possible. Also other functionality could be provided by each component module or existing functionality could be distributed amongst the components modules in different ways yet still achieve the functions of an HDM.

Furthermore in some embodiments some or all of the components of the content sharing logic and or the Content Sharing Access Service may be implemented or provided in other manners such as at least partially in firmware and or hardware including but not limited to one ore more application specific integrated circuits ASICs standard integrated circuits controllers e.g. by executing appropriate instructions and including microcontrollers and or embedded controllers field programmable gate arrays FPGAs complex programmable logic devices CPLDs and the like. Some or all of the system components and or data structures may also be stored as contents e.g. as executable or other machine readable software instructions or structured data on a computer readable medium e.g. as a hard disk a memory a computer network or cellular wireless network or other data transmission medium or a portable media article to be read by an appropriate drive or via an appropriate connection such as a DVD or flash memory device so as to enable or configure the computer readable medium and or one or more associated computing systems or devices to execute or otherwise use or provide the contents to perform at least some of the described techniques. Some or all of the system components and data structures may also be stored as data signals e.g. by being encoded as part of a carrier wave or included as part of an analog or digital propagated signal on a variety of computer readable transmission mediums which are then transmitted including across wireless based and wired cable based mediums and may take a variety of forms e.g. as part of a single or multiplexed analog signal or as multiple discrete digital packets or frames . Such computer program products may also take other forms in other embodiments. Accordingly embodiments of this disclosure may be practiced with other computer system configurations.

The illustrated process starts at . At the process receives and indication to create a secure content sharing group. Typically this indication is received from a first receiving device located at a first customer premises so as to configure such a first receiving device to securely share content with other receiving devices located at other customer premises. For example a customer associated with the first customer premises may be interacting with a user interface provided by the first receiving device to indicate a desire to create a secure content sharing group. Although in other embodiments such indications may be received from other sources. In some embodiments the process may further determine the identity and or location of the first receiving device such as based on information stored in a customer database etc.

At the process provides access control information to the first receiving device located at the first customer premises to enable the receiving device to securely share content with other receiving devices that are currently in and or will be added to the secure content sharing group. The access control information is provided to the first receiving device via a satellite communication network. As discussed elsewhere such access control information may include various identifiers and or information associated with the content sharing group that may be used by the first receiving device to determine a cryptographic key with which to encrypt shared content for use by other devices in the secure content sharing group.

At the process receives an indication to add an authorized receiving device located at a different customer premises to the secure content sharing group. Typically this indication is received from the first receiving device such as in response to a customer associated with the first receiving device indicating another customer and or another customer s receiving device with which the first customer desires to share content. In some embodiments the process may further determine the identity and or location of the authorized receiving device such as by searching a database or other information storage that includes information associating one or more customers to receiving devices of those customers.

At the process provides access control information to the authorized receiving device to enable that device to access content shared by the first receiving device. As discussed elsewhere such access control information may include various identifiers and or information associated with the content sharing group that may be used by the authorized receiving device to determine a cryptographic key with which to decrypt content shared by the first receiving device.

At the process determines whether to continue. If so the process returns to step to receive other indications to add additional authorized receiving devices to the secure content sharing group. If not the process ends at .

In the illustrated process starts at . At the process receives access control information via a satellite network to enable the receiving device to securely share content with other receiving devices in a secure content sharing group. Such access control information may be provided by execution of step of process .

At the process determines based on the received access control information an encryption key to use for encrypting content that the receiving device shares with other receiving devices in the secure content sharing group. For example in some embodiments the receiving device may generate and or otherwise obtain the encryption key based on the information included in the provided access control information.

At the process receives and indication to provide content to another receiving device that is in the secure content sharing group. Typically this indication will be received from the other receiving device such as via a communication network e.g. the Internet although the indication may be received from other sources in other embodiments.

At in response to the received indication in step the process encrypts the requested content using the determined encryption key.

At the process provides the encrypted content to the other receiving device in the content sharing group. Typically the encrypted content may be provided to the other receiving device via a communication network e.g. the Internet .

At the process determines whether to continue. If so the process returns to step to receive additional requests to share content. Otherwise the process ends at .

In the illustrated process starts at . At the process receives access control information via a satellite network to enable the receiving device to access content shared by a sharing receiving device in a secure content sharing group. Such access control information may be provided by execution of step of process .

At the process determines based on the received access control information a decryption key to use for decrypting shared content that the receiving device receives from the sharing receiving device in the secure content sharing group. For example in some embodiments the receiving device may generate and or otherwise obtain the decryption key based on the information included in the provided access control information. In some embodiments the process may store the determined decryption key.

At the process receives encrypted shared content from the sharing receiving device in the secure content sharing group. For example such content may be received based on execution of step of the process .

At the process presents the decrypted shared content to a user of the receiving device on a presentation device such as a television computer and or other presentation device. In other embodiments the received shared content may be used by the receiving device in other manners as appropriate such as for example playing the content on an audio device storing transmitting to another device e.g. a PC for use by that other device etc.

At the process determines whether to continue. If so the process returns to step to receive other shared content. Otherwise the process ends at .

In other embodiments the process may perform additional and or other steps not illustrated. For example in some embodiments the process may interact with a sharing receiving device to request and or otherwise obtain the encrypted shared content from the sharing receiving device.

While various embodiments have been described hereinabove it is to be appreciated that various changes in form and detail may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention s presently or hereafter claimed.

