---

title: Smart-home hazard detector providing sensor-based device positioning guidance
abstract: A particular smart hazard detector may itself function as a guide during a process of installation of the same at an installation location. Additionally, the installation location of the particular smart hazard detector may play a central role in how various settings of the smart hazard detector are defined and adjusted over time.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09489829&OS=09489829&RS=09489829
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09489829
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151008
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 14 645 216 filed Mar. 11 2015 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 14 508 536 filed Oct. 7 2014 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional No. 61 887 969 filed Oct. 7 2013 and U.S. Provisional 61 887 963 filed Oct. 7 2013 all of which are hereby incorporated by reference for all intents and purposes.

The present disclosure is directed to or towards systems devices methods and related computer program products for providing hazard detection objectives. More particularly the present disclosure relates to a plurality of devices including intelligent multi sensing network connected hazard detection units or smart hazard detectors such as detectors that incorporate smoke detector features carbon monoxide detector features and etc. that communicate with each other and or with a central server or a cloud computing system to provide any of a variety of hazard detection objectives that are useful in smart building and or smart home environments.

Hazard detectors use sensors to detect substances in the air that may be harmful or that may indicate the development of a hazardous situation. For example carbon monoxide CO and radon gas are substances that can be harmful to humans and animals if exposed to high amounts. However these substances are difficult to detect with the human senses because they are colorless odorless and tasteless. A hazard detector can detect the presence of these substances and prevent the harmful effects of exposure by alarming to notify a user. In other instances a substance such as smoke while not necessarily harmful in and of itself can indicate the development of a hazardous situation such as fire. An early alarm of the presence of such a substance can prevent the hazardous situation from developing or minimize the harmful effects of the situation. Interconnected hazard detectors include detectors that are connected to a network enabling communication between the detectors or with a central control unit. This provides several advantages over standalone detectors including the ability to activate multiple alarms when a single detector is triggered. Hazard detectors may be certified under standards defined by governing bodies and or by companies that perform safety testing such as Underwriters Laboratories UL . For example certain UL standards define thresholds for when smoke detectors and CO detectors should sound an alarm. Certain UL standards also define the required characteristics of the alarm such as powering requirements and the volume pitch and pattern of the alarming sound.

In general a particular smart hazard detector may itself function as a guide during a process of installation of the same at an installation location. Additionally the installation location of the particular smart hazard detector may play a central role in how various settings of the smart hazard detector are defined and adjusted over time.

In an aspect a method for guiding installation of a hazard detector may include or comprise receiving by the hazard detector during installation at a particular location within a residence an input command to test whether an instant placement of the hazard detector would prevent the hazard detector from operating within specification to detect and or mitigate one or more hazards. The method may include or comprise implementing by the hazard detector in response to receiving the input command a test sequence to determine whether the instant placement of the hazard detector would prevent the hazard detector from operating within specification to detect and or mitigate one or more hazards. The method may include or comprise outputting by the hazard detector a particular notification during installation at the particular location when it is determined that the instant placement of the hazard detector would prevent the hazard detector from operating within specification to detect and or mitigate one or more hazards based upon readings of at least one component of the hazard detector.

In an aspect a hazard detector may include or comprise at least one component to test during installation of the hazard detector at a particular location whether an instant placement of the hazard detector would prevent the hazard detector from operating within specification to detect and or mitigate one or more hazards and a processing system in operative communication with the at least one component that determines based upon readings of the at least one component whether an instant placement of the hazard detector during installation thereof would prevent the hazard detector from operating within specification to detect and or mitigate one or more hazards and when it is determined that the instant placement of the hazard detector would prevent the hazard detector from operating within specification to detect and or mitigate one or more hazards causes a notification alert to be output to guide a user during installation of the hazard detector to a suitable installation location for the hazard detector.

In an aspect a hazard detector may include or comprise at least one diagnostic component at least one output device at least one processor operatively coupled to the at least one diagnostic component and at least one output device and a memory operatively coupled with and readable by the at least one processor and having stored therein processor readable instructions that when executed by the at least one processor cause the at least one processor to receive during installation of the hazard detector at a particular location within a residence an input command to test whether an instant placement of the hazard detector would prevent the hazard detector from operating within specification to detect and or mitigate one or more hazards implement a test sequence to determine whether the instant placement of the hazard detector would prevent the hazard detector from operating within specification to detect and or mitigate one or more hazards and generate a particular notification for output by the at least one output device when it is determined that the instant placement of the hazard detector would prevent the hazard detector from operating within specification to detect and or mitigate one or more hazards based upon readings of the at least one diagnostic component.

In an aspect a hazard detector is presented. The hazard detector may include means for receiving during installation at a particular location within a residence an input command to test whether an instant placement of the hazard detector would prevent the hazard detector from operating within specification to detect and or mitigate one or more hazards. The hazard detector may include means for implementing in response to receiving the input command a test sequence to determine whether the instant placement of the hazard detector would prevent the hazard detector from operating within specification to detect and or mitigate one or more hazards. The hazard detector may include means for outputting a particular notification during installation at the particular location when it is determined that the instant placement of the hazard detector would prevent the hazard detector from operating within specification to detect and or mitigate one or more hazards based upon readings of at least one component of the hazard detector.

Aspects of the present disclosure are related to intelligent multi sensing network connected hazard detection units or smart hazard detectors that incorporate smoke detector features carbon monoxide detector features and etc. and that communicate with each other and or with a central server or a cloud computing system to provide any of a variety of hazard detection objectives that are useful in smart building and or smart home environments. More specifically it is contemplated that a particular smart hazard detector may itself function as a guide during a process of installation of the same at an installation location and that the installation location of the particular smart hazard detector may play a central role in how various settings of the smart hazard detector are defined and adjusted over time. Although not so limited an appreciation of the various aspects of the present disclosure may gained in light of the following description in connection with the drawings.

For instance referring now to a first example method is shown in accordance with the principles of the present disclosure. At step an input may be provided or supplied to a particular smart hazard detector or a device or system communicatively coupled to or with the smart hazard detector for example that identifies an installation location within a residence of the smart hazard detector. An example of an installation location may include Hallway or Living Room or Garage of or within a particular residence for instance. Other examples are possible as discussed in further detail below. Further means for performing step may generally include a smart hazard detector. More specifically means for performing step may include one or more processing devices such as processors and a storage medium such as to receive and process the input that identifies the installation location within the residence of the smart hazard detector. Other examples are possible.

At step a procedure may be implemented that may serve to advise an installer for example what features of the smart hazard detector are recommended to be enabled and or disabled based upon the installation location of the smart hazard detector. For example if the installation location is Garage it is contemplated that the smart hazard detector and or or the device or system communicatively coupled to the smart hazard detector may via one or both of an audio and a visual cue indicate that Carbon monoxide detection is not advised. Would you like to disable my carbon monoxide detection capabilities. Other examples are possible as discussed in further detail below. Further means for performing step may generally include a smart hazard detector. More specifically means for performing step may include one or more processing devices such as processors and a storage medium such as to provide a user perceptible cue e.g. audio visual tactile as to what features of the smart hazard detector are recommended to be enabled and or disabled based upon the installation location of the smart hazard detector. Other examples are possible.

At step a procedure may be implemented that may serve to define an alarm condition for each detection related enabled feature of the smart hazard detector see step based upon the installation location of the smart hazard detector. For example if the installation location is Garage it is contemplated that the smart hazard detector and or or the device or system communicatively coupled to the smart hazard detector may query a table of predefined threshold settings and access a particular alarm condition setting for carbon monoxide in a garage. The smart hazard detector may then be programmed to exhibit the particular alarm condition setting. An example of a particular alarm condition setting for carbon monoxide in a garage may include detected carbon monoxide levels greater than or equal to 400 ppm after 5 minutes of monitoring. Other examples are possible as discussed in further detail below. Further means for performing step may generally include a smart hazard detector. More specifically means for performing step may include one or more processing devices such as processors and a storage medium such as to enable the smart hazard detector to be programmed to exhibit the particular alarm condition setting. Other examples are possible.

Next at step a procedure may be implemented to guide an installer for example to install the smart hazard detector at the installation location in manner so that the smart hazard detector may function according to its intended purpose. For example a particular button integral to the smart hazard detector may be pressed to instantiate a test sequence in which the smart hazard detector transmits a signal via ultrasonic transducer to determine if the smart hazard detector is positioned too close to a wall. An example scenario in which the smart hazard detector may determine that the same is too close to a wall may be when the smart hazard detector determines that the wall is less than or equal to 12 inches away. Other examples are possible as discussed in further detail below. Further means for performing step may generally include a smart hazard detector. More specifically means for performing step may include one or more processing devices such as processors and a storage medium such as to provide a user perceptible cue e.g. audio visual tactile as a guide to install the smart hazard detector. Other examples are possible.

At step a procedure may be implemented to adjust an existing alarm condition setting for each detection related enabled feature of the smart hazard detector see step based upon the installation location of the smart hazard detector. For example a historical log of data as acquired by a particular sensor of the smart hazard detector may be leveraged as part of an algorithm to enable the smart hazard detector to self adjust its own pre alarm condition settings. For instance after a particular period of time of 1 month for example a smart hazard detector installed to Garage may adjust an existing pre alarm condition setting of detected carbon monoxide levels greater than or equal to 400 ppm after 5 minutes of monitoring to detected carbon monoxide levels greater than or equal to 400 ppm after 10 minutes of monitoring based upon an analysis of a historical log of data that indicates frequent false carbon monoxide alarms in the garage. Other examples are possible as discussed in further detail below. Further means for performing step may generally include a smart hazard detector. More specifically means for performing step may include one or more processing devices such as processors and a storage medium such as to enable the hazard detector to adjust an existing alarm condition setting for each detection related enabled feature of the smart hazard detector. Other examples are possible.

In particular as shown the example environment of may include a plurality of devices including intelligent multi sensing network connected devices that seamlessly integrate with each other and or with a central server or a cloud computing system to provide any of a variety of useful smart home objectives including hazard detection objectives in accordance with the principles of the present disclosure. For example the environment may include one or more intelligent multi sensing network connected thermostats one or more intelligent multi sensing network connected hazard detection units and one or more intelligent multi sensing network connected entryway interface devices or doorbells . In general a particular smart thermostat may detect ambient climate characteristics such as temperature and or humidity and control an HVAC Heating Ventilating and Air Conditioning system accordingly such as by turning ON and or OFF a fan of the HVAC system .

When the fan of the HVAC system is on the fan operates to circulate air between the rooms of the structure and to exhaust air from the structure and draw fresh outside air into the structure . In contrast a particular hazard detector may detect the presence of a hazardous condition or a substance indicative of a hazardous condition such as smoke fire heat carbon monoxide and etc. It will be appreciated that the smart devices of the example environment may not only be integrated into the structure itself. For example a particular hazard detector may be installed to a garage that is separate from the structure itself. Still may other examples are possible.

As shown the example environment further includes one or more intelligent multi sensing network connected wall switches along with one or more intelligent multi sensing network connected wall plug interfaces . In general a particular smart wall switch may detect ambient lighting conditions detect room occupancy states control a power and or dim state of one or more lights and etc. In some examples a particular instance of a smart wall switch may also control a power state or speed of a fan such as a ceiling fan. In general a particular smart wall plug interface may detect occupancy of a room or enclosure and control supply of power to one or more wall plugs so that power is not supplied to a plug if nobody is home or in a particular room for example.

As shown the example environment further includes a plurality of intelligent multi sensing network connected appliances such as refrigerators stoves and or ovens televisions washers dryers lights stereos intercom systems garage door openers floor fans ceiling fans wall air conditioners pool heaters irrigation systems security systems and so forth. Each of the appliances are contemplated as being compatible with other elements of the example environment by cooperating with the respective manufacturers of the appliances. For example the appliances can be space heaters window air conditioning units motorized duct vents etc. When plugged in a particular appliance may announce itself to the smart home network of such as by indicating what type of appliance it is and it can automatically integrate with the controls of the smart home. Such communication may be facilitated by any particular wired or wireless communication protocols that which may or may not be implementation specific.

The example environment may further include a variety of non communicating legacy appliances such as old conventional washer dryers refrigerators and the like which can be controlled such as ON OFF by virtue of the smart wall plug interfaces . The example environment can further include a variety of other devices systems and appliances such as IR Infrared controlled wall air conditioners or other IR controlled devices which can be controlled by IR signals provided by the hazard detectors or the smart wall switches . Still many other types of smart devices may be incorporate into the example environment and such devices and corresponding technology of the same may evolve as technology evolves.

By virtue of network connectivity one or more of the smart home devices of may further allow a user to interact with the device even if the user is not proximate to the device. For example a user can communicate with a device using a computer such as a desktop computer laptop computer tablet etc. or other portable electronic device such as a smartphone . A webpage or app can be configured to receive communications from the user and control the device based on the communications and or to present information about the device s operation to the user. For example the user can view a current set point temperature for a device and adjust it using a computer. The user can be in the structure during this remote communication or outside the structure.

As discussed users can control the smart thermostat and other smart devices in the example environment using a network connected personal computer or portable mobile device . In some examples some or all of the occupants who live in the home for instance may register any particular mobile device with the example environment . Such registration may be perfected at a central server to authenticate the occupant and or the device as being associated with the home and to give permission to the occupant to use the device to control the smart devices in the home. Further an occupant can use their mobile device when registered for example to remotely control the smart devices of the home such as when the occupant is at work or on vacation etc. The occupant may also use their mobile device when registered for example to control the smart devices when the occupant is actually located inside the home such as when the occupant is sitting on a couch inside the home. Instead of or in addition to registering devices one or more components of the example environment may be configured and or arraigned to make inferences about which individuals live in the home and are therefore occupants and which devices are associated with those individuals. As such the example environment in general may learn or derive or infer who is an occupant and permit devices associated with such individuals to control the smart devices in the example environment .

In some examples in addition to containing processing and sensing capabilities it is contemplated that each of the smart devices in the example environment may be capable of data communications and information sharing with any other of the smart devices as well as to any central server or cloud computing system or any other device that is network connected anywhere in the world. The required data communications can be carried out using any of a variety of custom or standard wireless protocols such as WiFi ZigBee or 6LoWPAN for example and or any of a variety of custom or standard wired protocols such as CAT6 Ethernet or HomePlug for examples

According to examples all or some of the smart devices in the example environment may serve as wireless or wired repeaters. For example a first one of the smart devices can communicate with a second one of the smart device via a wireless router . The smart devices can further communicate with each other via a connection to a network such as the Internet. Through the Internet the smart devices may communicate with a central server s or a cloud computing system s hereinafter system . The system may be associated with a manufacturer support entity service provider associated with the device etc. In one example a user may be able to contact customer support using a device itself rather than needing to use other communication means such as a telephone or Internet connected computer. Further software updates may be automatically sent from the system to the smart devices in the example environment such as when available purchased at routine intervals and etc.

According to examples the smart devices in the example environment may communicate or combine to create an ad hoc mesh network of spokesman and low power nodes where some of the smart devices are spokesman nodes and others are low powered nodes. Here it is contemplated that some of the smart devices in the example environment may generally be battery powered while others may have access to a regular and reliable power source such as by connecting to line voltage wires behind or within the walls of the structure . The smart devices that have a regular and reliable power source may be referred to as spokesman nodes. These nodes are equipped with the capability of using any wireless protocol or manner to facilitate bidirectional communication with any of a variety of other devices in the example environment as well as with the system . On the other hand the devices that are battery powered may be referred to as low power nodes. These nodes tend to be smaller than spokesman nodes and may only communicate using wireless protocols that requires very little power such as Zigbee 6LoWPAN and etc. Further some but not all low power nodes may be incapable of bidirectional communication. These nodes may send messages but may be are unable to listen.

As described the smart devices serve as low power and spokesman nodes to create a mesh network in the example environment . Individual low power nodes in the smart home environment may regularly broadcast messages regarding what they are sensing and the other low powered nodes in the smart home environment in addition to sending out their own messages may repeat the messages thereby causing the messages to be transferred from node to node or device to device throughout the example environment . The spokesman nodes in the example environment may be able to drop down to low powered communication protocols to receive these messages translate the messages to other communication protocols and send the translated messages to other spokesman nodes and or the system . Thus the low powered nodes using low power communication protocols may send messages across the entire example environment as well as over the network to the system . According to examples the mesh network enables the system to regularly receive data from all of the smart devices in the home make inferences based on the data and send commands back to one or more of the smart devices to accomplish some of the smart home objectives as discussed throughout.

As described the spokesman nodes and some of the low powered nodes are capable of listening. Accordingly users other devices and the system may communicate controls to the low powered nodes. For example a user may use the mobile device to send commands over the network to the system which then may relay commands to the spokesman nodes in the example environment . The spokesman nodes may drop down to a low power protocol to communicate the commands to the low power nodes throughout the example environment as well as to other spokesman nodes that did not receive the commands directly from the system .

An example of a low power node is a particular hazard detector . Other examples of low powered nodes include battery powered versions of a hazard detector . Such hazard detectors may in some instances be located in an area without access to a constant and reliable power source and may include any number and type of sensors such as smoke fire heat sensors carbon monoxide dioxide sensors occupancy motion sensors ambient light sensors temperature sensors humidity sensors and the like. Furthermore hazard detectors may send messages to other smart devices sensors etc. within the example environment as well as the system such as via ad hoc mesh network techniques as contemplated above.

Examples of spokesman nodes include smart doorbells smart thermostats wired versions of hazard detectors smart wall switches and smart wall plugs interfaces . These devices may be located near and connected to a reliable power source and therefore might include more power consuming components such as one or more communication chips capable of bidirectional communication in any variety of protocols. In some examples the low powered and spokesman nodes of the example environment may function as alarm broadcasters for a hazard detection system in the example environment . For example in the event a particular hazard detector detects a hazardous condition such dangerous amounts of smoke or carbon monoxide that hazard detector may send an alarm message to the system which may then instruct other smart devices in the example environment to instantiate an alarm alerting occupants or other individual to or of the dangerous condition. Thus the hazard detection system could be enhanced by various low powered and spokesman nodes located throughout the example environment all capable of providing audible visual. In this example a user could enhance the safety of the example environment by purchasing and installing extra smart devices capable of alerting occupant to dangerous conditions.

Referring now to a network level view of an extensible devices and services platform is shown with which a plurality of smart home environments such as the example environment of may be integrated. In this example the platform is shown to include various remote servers or cloud computing architectures. As mentioned above it is contemplated that each of the intelligent network connected smart devices of may regularly communicate with the remote servers or cloud computing architectures. For example a connection to the network may be established either directly for example via 3G 4G connectivity to a wireless carrier through a hub network see also hub of example which may be a scheme or implementation ranging from a simple wireless router for example up to and including an intelligent dedicated whole home control node and or through any combination thereof.

Although in some examples provided herein elements of the example platform may communicate with and collect data from various smart devices of the example environment of it is further contemplated that one or more elements of the example platform may communicate with and collect data from a plurality of smart home environments across the world. For example the system see also may collect particular home data from devices of one or more smart home environments where the devices may routinely or regularly such as periodically or at least intermittently transmit home data or in response to a particular command to do so. Thus various elements of the example platform may routinely collect data from homes across the world. In general the home data may include for example power consumption data occupancy data HVAC settings and usage data carbon monoxide levels data carbon dioxide levels data volatile organic compounds levels data sleeping schedule data cooking schedule data inside and outside temperature humidity data television viewership data inside and outside noise level data and so on and so forth in which the type of home data as collected is only limited by type or form of smart devices as incorporated into a particular environment such as the example environment of .

According to examples smart devices may increase their logging frequency as they approach a threshold. For example a particular hazard detector may increases the frequency at which it samples air and sends corresponding data to the system as the condition in the home approaches an alarm condition. For example upon detecting more than a threshold level of smoke a particular hazard detector may samples air at a higher rate and send corresponding data to the system . In another example a particular hazard detector may increases the frequency it samples air for CO upon detecting a threshold level increase in the amount of CO in the home. Further for example a particular hazard detector may increase logging and sampling frequency during transitions. For example upon detecting increased levels of noise light etc. in a particular location a particular hazard detector may switch into a listening state where its PIR Passive Infrared Senor ultrasonic and other sensors etc. and sample and log and possibly send to the system at an increased rate or frequency. The increased levels of noise light etc. in the location may indicate the presence of humans in the room and thereby indicates that there may be data worth observing in the room.

For example it may be desirable that the smart devices be quiet most of the time so as to reduce chatter on the network e.g. to reduce frequent updates at the system . Thus if no one is in the room a smart device may be configured to sample once a minute or once an hour. However if the smart device senses a transition indicating that a person is in the room then it will sample more often. For example when the room is occupied the smart device may send to the system temperature data occupancy data etc. The server stores this data in home data and runs trend detecting algorithms against the data. For example the home data may include logs and maps of user in home movements from room to room time spent in each room intra home occupancy density maps etc. In some examples the home data may be stored to a persistent memory location of a particular hazard detector itself.

According to examples the home data may be made available to and or to smart devices themselves so users so that they can review a log of historical events in the home. For example end users may review historical CO smoke temperature etc. levels of the various rooms of the home. For instance an example historical log may indicate or include data such as pre alarm smoke level detected at 10 14 AM smoke alarm level at 10 26 AM alarm hushed at 10 31 AM and smoke diminished everything okay at 10 50 AM. This may enable the user to see that an alarm condition occurred in the home and how it was resolved. The historical log may also include a history of self checks executed by a particular smart device. For example the historical log may show a history of time the hazard detectors have tested their CO sensors. An example self check log may indicate that all hazard detectors in the home self checked between 1 AM and 2 AM and they are all working properly including their WiFi connection is of sufficient strength their battery level is acceptable their CO sensor is working properly and etc. Still further a historical log may be leveraged as part of an algorithm to enable a hazard detector to self adjust its own settings such as particular threshold level settings for example. Still many other examples are possible and it will be appreciated that such historical data may be mined manipulated and leveraged to implement many of the various features and or aspects contemplated within the present disclosure.

Referring still to the system it is contemplated that the system may further provide one or more services . The services may include for example software updates customer support sensor data collection logging remote access remote or distributed control or use suggestions such as based on home data as collected and or aggregated to improve performance reduce utility cost and etc. Data associated with the services may be stored at the example system and the system may retrieve and transmit the data at an appropriate time such as at regular intervals upon receiving a request from a user and etc.

As illustrated in the example platform may further include a processing engine which may be concentrated at a single server or distributed among several different computing entities without limitation. The processing engine may include a number of engines configured and or arranged to receive data from devices of smart home environments possibly via the network and or the hub network to index the data analyze the data and or to generate statistics based on the analysis or as part of the analysis. The analyzed data may in some examples be stored as derived home data . Results of the analysis or statistics may thereafter be transmitted back to the device that provided home data used to derive the results to other devices to a server providing a webpage to a user of the device or to other non device entities. For example use statistics use statistics relative to use of other devices use patterns and or statistics summarizing sensor readings may be generated by the processing engine and transmitted. The results or statistics may be provided via the network . In this manner the processing engine may be configured and programmed to derive a variety of useful information from the home data . A single server can include one or more engines. Still other examples are possible.

The derived data can be highly beneficial at a variety of different granularities for a variety of useful purposes ranging from explicit programmed control of the devices on a per home per neighborhood or per region basis for example demand response programs for electrical utilities to the generation of inferential abstractions that can assist on a per home basis for example an inference can be drawn that the homeowner has left for vacation and so security detection equipment can be put on heightened sensitivity to the generation of statistics and associated inferential abstractions that can be used for government or charitable purposes. For example processing engine may generate statistics about device usage across a population of devices and send the statistics to device users service providers or other entities for example that have requested or may have provided monetary compensation for the statistics.

In some examples to encourage innovation and research and to increase products and services available to users the example platform may expose a range of API s Application Programming Interface to third parties such as charities governmental entities such as the Food and Drug Administration or the Environmental Protection Agency academic institutions such as university researchers businesses such as for providing device warranties or service to related equipment targeting advertisements based on home data utility companies and various other third parties. In general the APIs may be coupled to and permit third party systems to communicate with the example system including the services the processing engine the home data and the derived home data . For example the APIs may allow applications executed by the third parties to initiate specific data processing tasks that are executed by the system as well as to receive dynamic updates to the home data and the derived home data .

Referring now to an abstracted functional view of the example platform of is shown with particular reference to the processing engine as well as other elements or devices such as shown and described above in connection with . Even though devices situated in smart home environments will have an endless variety of different individual capabilities they can all be thought of as sharing common characteristics in that each of them is a DC Data Consumer a DS Data Source a SC Services Consumer and a SS Services Source . Advantageously in addition to providing control information needed for the devices to achieve their local and immediate objectives elements of the example platform may also be configured to harness the large amount of data that is flowing out of these devices. In addition to enhancing or optimizing the actual operation of the devices themselves with respect to their immediate functions elements of the example platform may be directed to repurposing that data in a variety of automated extensible flexible and or scalable ways to achieve a variety of useful objectives. These objectives may be predefined or adaptively identified based on e.g. usage patterns device efficiency and or user input e.g. requesting specific functionality.

For example the processing engine of is shown to include a number of paradigms . For example the processing engine may include a managed services paradigm that monitors and manages primary or secondary smart device functions. The device functions may include ensuring proper operation of a device given user inputs estimating that an intruder is or is attempting to be in a dwelling detecting a failure of equipment coupled to the device implementing or otherwise responding to energy demand response events or alerting a user of a current or predicted future event or characteristic. The processing engine may further include an advertising communication paradigm that estimates characteristics such as demographic information desires and or products of interest of a user based on device usage. Services promotions products or upgrades can then be offered or automatically provided to the user. The processing engine may further include a social paradigm that uses information from a social network provides information to a social network for example based on device usage and or processes data associated with user and or device interactions with the social network platform.

The processing engine may include a challenges rules compliance rewards paradigm that informs a user of challenges competitions rules compliance regulations and or rewards and or that uses operation data to determine whether a challenge has been met a rule or regulation has been complied with and or a reward has been earned. The challenges rules or regulations can relate to efforts to conserve energy to live safely by reducing exposure to toxins or carcinogens for example to conserve money and or equipment life to improve health etc. For example one challenge may involve participants turning down their thermostat by one degree for one week. Those that successfully complete the challenge are rewarded such as by coupons virtual currency status etc. Regarding compliance an example involves a rental property owner making a rule that no renters are permitted to access certain owner s rooms. The devices in the room having occupancy sensors could send updates to the owner when the room is accessed.

In accordance with the principles of the present disclosure the processing engine may further integrate or otherwise utilize extrinsic information from extrinsic sources to improve the functioning of one or more processing paradigms. Extrinsic information can be used to interpret data received from a device to determine a characteristic of the environment near the device such as weather outside a structure that the device is enclosed in to determine services or products available to the user to identify a social network or social network information to determine contact information of entities e.g. public service entities such as an emergency response team the police or a hospital near the device etc. to identify statistical or environmental conditions trends or other information associated with a home or neighborhood or region such as a county town city state and so forth.

Referring now to and an example smart hazard detector that may be incorporated into the example environment of is shown in accordance with the principles of the present disclosure. Another view of the example hazard detector is shown below in connection with at least . In one example the hazard detector corresponds to the hazard detector described in other sections of this disclosure such as in connection with . illustrates an exploded perspective view of the hazard detector while illustrates an assembled view of the same hazard detector . In an example the hazard detector is a smoke detector that is configured to detect the presence of smoke and sound an alarm to audibly warn an occupant or occupants of the home or structure of a potential fire or other danger. In other examples the hazard detector may be a carbon monoxide detector heat detector and the like. In other examples the hazard detector may be a multi sensing detector that includes a smoke detector carbon monoxide detector heat detector motion detector and the like. Many of the present teachings are particularly advantageous for examples in which the hazard detector is a multi sensing detector particularly since combining the various sensing modes together into a single device can pose substantial challenges with respect to one or more of device compactness component powering and overall component governance and coordination.

In one example implementation the hazard detector is a roughly square or rectangular shaped object having a width of approximately 120 mm to 134 mm and a thickness of approximately 38 mm. Stated differently hazard detector is a multi sensing unit having a fairly compact shape and size that may be easily attached to a wall or ceiling of a home or structure so as to be able among other functionalities to detect the presence of smoke and alert an occupant therein of the potential fire danger. As shown in the hazard detector includes a mounting plate that may be attached to a wall of the building or structure to secure the hazard detector thereto. The hazard detector also includes a back plate that may be mounted to the mounting plate and a front casing that may be coupled with or otherwise secured to the back plate to define a housing having an interior region within which components of the hazard detector are contained.

A circuit board may be coupled with or attached to the back plate . Various components may be mounted on the circuit board . For example a smoke chamber may be coupled with or mounted on the circuit board to detect the presence of smoke. In one example the smoke chamber may be mid mounted relative to the circuit board so that air may flow into the smoke chamber from a position above the circuit board and the below circuit board . A speaker and or alarm device the alarm device may be a separate component from the speaker may also be mounted on the circuit board to audibly warn for example an occupant of a potential fire danger when the presence of smoke is detected via the smoke chamber . Other components such as a motion sensor e.g. ultrasonic passive IR etc. CO sensor temperature sensor heat sensor ambient light sensor noise sensor microprocessor and the like may further be mounted on the circuit board possibly accordingly to implementation specific requirements.

In one example a protective plate may be attached to or otherwise coupled with the circuit board to provide a visually pleasing appearance to the inner components of hazard detector and or to funnel or direct airflow to the smoke chamber . For example when the internal components of the hazard detector are viewed such as through vents in the back plate the protective plate may provide the appearance of a relatively smooth surface and otherwise hide or obscure the components or circuitry of the circuit board . The protective plate may likewise function to direct a flow of air from the vents of the back plate toward the smoke chamber to facilitate air flow into and out of the smoke chamber .

The hazard detector may also include a battery pack that provides power to the various components of hazard detector when the hazard detector is not coupled with an external power source such as a 120 V power source. A cover plate may be coupled with the front casing to provide a visually pleasing appearance to hazard detector and or for other functional purposes. In a specific example the cover plate may include a plurality of holes or openings that allow one or more sensors coupled with the circuit board to view or see through a surface of cover plate so as to sense objects external to the hazard detector . The plurality of openings of the cover plate may be arranged to provide a visually pleasing appearance when viewed by occupants of the home or structure. In one example the plurality of openings of the cover plate may be arranged according to a repeating pattern such as a Fibonacci or other sequence. Still other examples are possible.

A lens button may be coupled with or otherwise mounted to the cover plate . The lens button may allow one or more sensors to view through the lens button for various purposes. For instance in one example a PIR sensor may be positioned behind the lens button and configured to view through the lens button to detect the presence of an occupant or occupants within the home or structure. In some examples the lens button may also function as a button that is depressible by a user to input various commands to the hazard detector such as to shut off an alarm that is triggered in response to a false or otherwise harmless condition. Positioned distally behind the lens button may be a light ring that receives light such as from an LED Light Emitting Diode or another light emitting element and disperse the light within the light ring to provide a desired visual appearance or cue such as a halo behind the lens button . Positioned distally behind the light ring may be a flexible circuit board that includes one or more electrical components such as a PIR sensor LEDs and the like. The flexible circuit board or flexible ring may be electrically coupled with the circuit board to communicate and or receive instructions from one or more microprocessors mounted on a circuit board during operation of hazard detector .

Referring now specifically to the hazard detector of is shown in an assembled state. Specifically the mounting plate front casing back plate and cover plate are in an assembled configuration with the various other components contained within an interior space of hazard detector . also shows the plurality of holes or openings of cover plate forming an aesthetically pleasing design and the lens button is shown attached to the hazard detector so as to be centrally positioned with respect to the cover plate . As briefly described above the light ring may be used to provide a halo appearance of light around and behind lens button . The hazard detector when assembled provides a compact yet robust and multifunctional device.

Referring now to illustrated are front and rear perspective views of the circuit board of . In this example the circuit board includes a main body having a front side or surface and a rear side or surface. Various electrical components may be mounted on circuit board and type and form of such components may or may not be implementation specific and may evolve as technology evolves. In some examples these components may be mounted on the front surface of circuit board on the rear surface of circuit board opposite the front surface or on both surfaces of the circuit board . For instance in a specific example one or more microprocessors and or other processor related components may be mounted on the rear surface of circuit board facing the protective plate while one or more functional components such as alarm device CO detector speaker motion sensors WiFi device Zigbee device and the like are mounted on a front surface of circuit board facing a room of the home or structure in which the hazard detector is positioned. Other components may be mid mounted relative to the circuit board so that opposing surfaces are positioned on opposing sides of the circuit board as described herein.

In a specific example the front surface of circuit board may include a CO detector that detects the presence of carbon monoxide gas and triggers an alarm device if the CO gas levels are determined to be too high. The alarm device which can be a piezoelectric buzzer having an intentionally shrill or jarring sound may likewise be mounted on the front surface of the circuit board so as to face an occupant of the room in which the hazard detector is positioned to alarm the occupant of a potential danger. The alarm device may produce one or more sounds or signals to alert the occupant of the potential danger.

The front surface may further include an area in which the speaker is positioned. The speaker provide audible warnings or messages to the occupant of the room. For example the speaker may alert the occupant of a potential danger and instruct the occupant to exit the room. In some examples the speaker may provide specific instructions to the occupant such as to guide installation of the hazard detector . Other messages may likewise be communicated to the occupant such as to alert the occupant that the batteries are low that CO levels are relatively high in the room that the hazard detector needs periodic cleaning or alert the occupant of any other abnormalities or issues related to the hazard detector or components thereof.

The circuit board may also include one or more motion sensors mounted on the front surface thereof. The motion sensors may be used to determine the presence of an individual within a room or surrounding area of the hazard detector . This information may be used to change the functionality of the hazard detector and or one or more other devices connected in a common network as described previously. For example this information may be relayed to a smart thermostat to inform the thermostat that occupants of the home or structure are present so that the smart thermostat may condition the home or structure according to one or more learned or programmed settings. The hazard detector may likewise use this information for one or more purposes such as to quiet the alarm device such as via a gesture hush or for various other reasons.

In one example a first ultrasonic sensor and a second ultrasonic sensor may be mounted on the front surface of circuit board . The two ultrasonic sensors and may be offset axially so as to point in slightly different directions. In this orientation each ultrasonic sensor may be used to detect the motion of an individual based on an orientation of the hazard detector relative to the room and or occupant and determine distance from the hazard detector and one or walls or surface near or adjacent the hazard detector . Detecting the motion of the individual may be used to quiet the alarm device as described herein or for any other reason. In one example an axis of the first ultrasonic sensor may be oriented substantially outward relative to hazard detector while an axis of the second ultrasonic sensor is oriented at an angle relative to the axis of first ultrasonic sensor . The first ultrasonic sensor may sense motion of an individual when the hazard detector is mounted on a ceiling of the home or structure.

Because the first ultrasonic sensor is oriented substantially outward relative to hazard detector the first ultrasonic sensor essentially looks straight down on individuals beneath hazard detector when the same is installed to a ceiling for example. The second ultrasonic sensor may similarly sense motion of the individual when the hazard detector is mounted on a wall of the home or structure. Because the second ultrasonic sensor is oriented at an angle relative to the first ultrasonic sensor and hazard detector the second ultrasonic sensor essentially looks downward toward the floor when the hazard detector is mounted on a wall of the home or structure rather than looking directly outward as first ultrasonic sensor . In one example the angular offset of the two ultrasonic sensors may be approximately 30 or any other desired value. Other examples are possible and may vary depending on intended use. For example a different configuration may be leveraged in scenarios in which the two ultrasonic sensors and are further or alternatively or additionally intended to assist in installation of the hazard detector .

For instance in another example the two ultrasonic sensors and may be replaced by a single ultrasonic sensor that is configured to rotate within hazard detector so that the single ultrasonic sensor is capable of looking straight outward similar to first ultrasonic sensor or capable of looking downward similar to second ultrasonic sensor . The single ultrasonic sensor may be coupled to circuit board via a hinge that allows the ultrasonic sensor to rotate based on the orientation of hazard detector . For example when the hazard detector is mounted to a ceiling of the home or structure gravity may orient the ultrasonic sensor so as to look straight downward whereas when hazard detector is coupled to a wall of the home or structure gravity may cause the ultrasonic sensor to rotate via the hinge and look downward toward a floor and relative to hazard detector . In another example a motor may be coupled with the single ultrasonic sensor so as to rotate the ultrasonic sensor based on the orientation of the hazard detector . In this manner the ultrasonic sensor may always point in a direction that is likely to detect motion of an individual within the room or space surrounding the hazard detector . In yet another example the single ultrasonic sensor may have a wide field of view that is able to substantially accommodate both mounting positions of the two ultrasonic sensors and .

As shown in the main body of the circuit board also includes a substantially centrally located aperture through which the smoke chamber may be inserted so as to mid mount the smoke chamber relative to the circuit board . The aperture may also include a pair of notches through which wires are inserted to electrically couple the smoke chamber with the circuit board . Mid mounting of the smoke chamber through an aperture may allow smoke and air to enter the smoke chamber from both the front surface or side of the circuit board and the rear surface or side of circuit board . Included on the circuit board may be several other components including a system processor relatively high power wireless communications circuitry and antenna relatively low power wireless communications circuitry and antenna non volatile memory speaker one or more interface sensors a safety processor safety sensors alarm device a power source and powering circuitry.

The components are operative to provide failsafe safety detection features and user interface features using circuit topology and power budgeting methods that minimize power consumption. According to one example a bifurcated or hybrid processor circuit topology or architecture is used for handling the various features of the hazard detector wherein the safety processor is a relatively small relatively lean or thin processor that is dedicated to core safety sensor governance and core alarming functionality as would be provided on a conventional smoke CO alarm and wherein the system processor is a relatively larger relatively higher powered processor that is dedicated to more advanced features such as cloud communications user interface features occupancy and other advanced environmental tracking features and more generally any other task that would not be considered a core or conventional safety sensing and alarming task.

By way of example the safety processor may be a Freescale KL15 microcontroller while the system processor may be a Freescale K60 microcontroller. The safety processor may be programmed such that it is capable of operating and performing its core safety related duties regardless of the status or state of the system processor. Thus for example even if the system processor is not available or is otherwise incapable of performing any functions the safety processor will continue to perform its core safety related tasks such that the hazard detector still meets all industry and or government safety standards that are required for the smoke CO and or other safety related monitoring for which the hazard detector is offered.

The system processor on the other hand performs what might be called optional or advanced functions that are overlaid onto the functionality of the safety processor where optional or advanced may refer to tasks that are not specifically required for compliance with industry and or governmental safety standards. Thus although the system processor is designed to interoperate with the safety processor in a manner that can improve the overall performance feature set and or functionality of the hazard detector its operation is not required in order for the hazard detector to meet core safety related industry and or government safety standards. Being generally a larger and more capable processor than the safety processor the system processor will generally consume more power than the safety processor when both are active.

Similarly when both processors are inactive the system processor will still consume more power than the safety processor. The system processor can be operative to process user interface features and monitor interface sensors such as occupancy sensors audio sensors cameras for example which may not be directly related to core safety sensing . For example the system processor may direct wireless data traffic on both high and low power wireless communications circuitry access non volatile memory communicate with the safety processor and cause audio to be emitted from the speaker . As another example the system processor may monitor interface sensors to determine whether any actions need to be taken for example to shut off an active alarm in response to a user detected action to hush the alarm.

The safety processor may be operative to handle core safety related tasks of the hazard detector . The safety processor can poll safety sensors such as smoke and or CO sensors for example and activate the alarm device when one or more of safety sensors indicate that a hazard event is detected. The safety processor can operate independently of the system processor and can activate the alarm device regardless of what state the system processor is in. For example if the system processor is performing an active function such as performing a WiFi update for example or is shut down due to power constraints the safety processor may still activate the alarm device when a hazard event is detected.

In some examples the software running on the safety processor may be permanently fixed and may never be updated via a software or firmware update after the hazard detector leaves the factory. Compared to the system processor the safety processor is a less power consuming processor. Using the safety processor to monitor the safety sensors as opposed to using the system processor to do this can yield power savings because safety processor may be constantly monitoring the safety sensors. If the system processor were to constantly monitor the safety sensors power savings may not be realized. In addition to the power savings realized by using safety processor for monitoring the safety sensors bifurcating the processors can also ensure that the safety features of the hazard detector always work regardless of whether the higher level user interface works. The relatively high power wireless communications circuitry can be for example a WiFi module capable of communicating according to any of the 802.11 protocols.

By way of example the relatively high power wireless communications circuitry may be implemented using a Broadcom BCM43362 WiFi module. The relatively low power wireless communications circuitry can be a low power Wireless Personal Area Network 6LoWPAN module or a ZigBee module capable of communicating according to a 802.15.4 protocol. For example in one example the relatively low power wireless communications circuitry may be implemented using an Ember EM357 6LoWPAN module. The non volatile memory can be any suitable permanent memory storage such as for example NAND Flash a hard disk drive NOR ROM or phase change memory. In one example the non volatile memory can store audio clips that can be played back using the speaker . The audio clips can include installation instructions or warnings in one or more languages. The interface sensors can includes sensors that are monitored by the system processor while the safety sensors can include sensors that are monitored by the safety processor.

The interface sensors may include for example an ALS Ambient Light Sensor such as could be implemented using a discrete photodiode a noise sensor a PIR motion sensor such as could be implemented using an Excelitas PYQ1348 module and one or more ultrasonic sensors such as could be implemented using one or more Manorshi MS P2360H12TR modules. The safety sensors can include for example the smoke chamber which could employ or leverage for example an Excelitas IR module the CO module which could employ or leverage for example a Figaro TGS5342 sensor and a temperature and humidity sensor which could employ or leverage for example a Sensirion SHT20 module. The power source may supply power to enable operation of the hazard detector and can include any suitable source of energy. Examples discussed herein can include AC line power battery power a combination of AC line power with a battery backup and externally supplied DC power such as USB Universal Serial Bus supplied power. Examples that use AC line power AC line power with battery backup or externally supplied DC power may be subject to different power conservation constraints than battery only examples.

Preferably battery only powered examples are designed to manage power consumption of a finite energy supply such that hazard detector operates for a minimum period of time of at least seven eight nine or ten years. Line powered examples are not as constrained. Line powered with battery backup examples may employ power conservation methods to prolong the life of the backup battery. In battery only examples the power source can include one or more batteries such as the battery pack . The batteries may be constructed from different compositions such alkaline or lithium iron disulfide for example and different end user configurations such as permanent user replaceable or non user replaceable for example may be used. In one example six cells of Li FeSmay be arranged in two stacks of three. Such an arrangement may yield about 27000 mWh of total available power for the hazard detector . Other examples are possible.

Referring now to an example method for setting up a hazard detector and establishing a pairing between the hazard detector and an online management account is shown according to the principles of the present disclosure. Each step of the example method is discussed in detail below and some steps are discussed with reference to additional figures that may provide physical illustrations related to the steps of the example method . The method is an exemplary method of setting up and pairing a hazard detector some illustrated steps may not be necessary or applicable and other additional steps may be appropriate or implemented as desired the same of which may or may not be implementation specific.

At step a central server or a cloud computing system e.g. system of may receive input corresponding to a code. This code may be correspond to a unique identifier or ID of a hazard detector such as hazard detector . The code may also be associated with additional information stored on a server or system e.g. the manufacture date of the hazard detector the software version that was initially installed on the hazard detector and or other information about the hazard detector. Before the server can receive this code in step a user first may obtain the code from the hazard detector . The code may be contained in the product packaging of the hazard detector or displayed on the hazard detector and provided to the system via an app or a webpage configured to provide communication to the system .

Referring now additionally to an example physical process for obtaining the mentioned code and providing it for the server to receive the code is shown according to the principles of the present disclosure. Firstly the hazard detector may be removed from its product packaging. This may be accomplished by separating top and bottom portions of the box exposing the hazard detector as shown in . Then the hazard detector may be removed from the box along with the other contents of the box as shown in . The other contents may include a mounting plate e.g. mounting plate fasteners for securely affixing the mounting plate to a wall of a home or other structure and a hazard detector information packet . In some examples it may be necessary for a user to pull a battery tab in order to expose the terminals of the batteries e.g. the batteries of battery pack and provide operating power or backup power to hazard detector .

The hazard detector and the mounting plate may include corresponding features such that hazard detector becomes locked onto mounting plate when a user twists the hazard detector in a rotational direction as shown in . The hazard detector may also include circuitry and sensors that cause the hazard detector to boot up or initiate its operating system when the sensors detect that hazard detector has been mounted on mounting plate . As shown in the hazard detector may generate music to indicate that it is booting up e.g. the hazard detector may generate music via speaker . Alternatively the hazard detector may generate any form of an audio indication such as tones speech etc. and or visual indication such as LED lights that may produce light according to a predetermined pattern.

As shown in after the hazard detector has booted up a user may press the lens button in a direction to begin communicating with the hazard detector . Alternatively the user may use voice commands to begin communicating with the hazard detector . In response the hazard detector may generate audio and or visual indicators as shown in . For example the hazard detector may tell the user Device ready Press again to test. The hazard detector may also generate pulsing blue light rays or other visual effects via the light ring . As discussed below these audio and or visual indicators direct or instruct the user to open an app or a webpage at a computing device in order to provide the code. The hazard detector may also generate audio and or visual indicators and receive input via the lens button in order to allow the user to select a language preference for the operation of hazard detector .

Selecting the setup button brings up an interface of the application as shown in that instructs the user to provide the unique code for hazard detector . The user may enter an alphanumeric code manually in the field and select a done button when finished. Alternatively the user may select a scan button to bring up an interface of the application as shown in . That interface may be used for scanning QR codes. The QR code and the alphanumeric code may be found on a sticker that is located on back plate of hazard detector . As shown in the application may enter a camera mode interface in order to allow a user to take a picture of a QR code located on the sticker and next to alphanumeric code . The application may process the QR code in order to determine or otherwise identify the alphanumeric code another unique ID of hazard detector or other information concerning hazard detector . The application may automatically input or populate the alphanumeric code into the field shown in following the scanning of QR code .

In order for a central server to process and store a received hazard detector code e.g. the alphanumeric code it may be necessary to associate that code with a user and or a user s online management account. As discussed below steps and of the method may enable a central server to process and store a received hazard detector code e.g. the alphanumeric code . In particular at step of the example method system or system of for example may receive input corresponding to credentials for accessing an online management account. For example after detecting depression of the done button see the application may send credentials for an online management account which credentials may have been previously stored on application to the system . These credentials may have been entered at the application at a previous time e.g. after first opening the application or at some other time before beginning step above. Alternatively a user may be prompted to create an online management account after pressing the done button . The online management account may be created at the application or a webpage configured to provide communication to system . The credentials for the newly created online management account may then be provided to the system by or via the application e.g. in a manner similar to providing the alphanumeric code to the system via the application . Online management accounts which may be uniquely identified by an email address for example may allow users to access or otherwise benefit from online services e.g. services as discussed above in connection with .

At step a central server or a cloud computing system e.g. system may associate the hazard detector and an online management account using a code e.g. the alphanumeric code and credentials for the online management account. This may also allow data e.g. home data of to be collected stored and linked to and or accessible at a user s online management account. Additionally this association may allow for remote access and or remote or distributed control of the hazard detector via a user s online management account. However in order for data collected from and or remote control of hazard detector to be possible the hazard detector may need to have access to a network connection.

Referring now additionally to an example of a physical process for connecting the hazard detector to the network see e.g. is shown according to the principles of the present disclosure. For example as shown in an interface may be provided at or by the application on the mobile device in order to provide instructions for connecting the hazard detector to the network . For example the instructions may comprise a number of steps for connecting the hazard detector to the network and continuing the setup process for hazard detector including 1 open the Settings app and 2 under WiFi connect to the network called Device 659F38 and 3 return to the application in order to complete the setting up of the hazard detector . Some of these steps may be specific to type or form of the mobile device which may for example correspond to the iPhone by Apple Inc. of Cupertino Calif. but similar steps may be taken for other computing devices e.g. tablets laptops netbooks gaming consoles all in one computers and etc. in order to connect the same to the temporary network broadcasted by the hazard detector .

The Device 659F38 network may be temporary WiFi network broadcasted by the hazard detector during the setup process. Alternatively the hazard detector may broadcast one or more other networks for communicating with computing devices e.g. the mobile device using other wireless protocols e.g. any of the other wireless protocols mentioned herein. This temporary network may provide a convenient initial means for allowing the hazard detector to communicate with the mobile device while the hazard detector is not connected to the network .

The application may then display a screen as shown in in order to provide confirmation that the hazard detector has connected to the OurHouse local network the network and the system via a host.com website. The hazard detector may also generate a corresponding audio and or visual indicator. For example as shown in the hazard detector may generate the following audio Device connected to nest.com Alternatively the hazard detector may generate other audio and or visual confirmation of the successful connections. Further the mobile device itself may generate an audio and or tactile or vibratory output for confirmation of the successful connections. These confirmations may signify that the hazard detector has been associated with an online management account and the user is able to access or otherwise benefit from the services see e.g. e.g. the user may communicate with the hazard detector using a computing device such as a desktop computer laptop computer tablet or other device such as the mobile device .

Referring now back to at step of the example method the hazard detector may receive or otherwise detect user input corresponding to its location within a home or building such as an end user inputting information into the mobile device or by manual depression of the lens button that which provides an indication as to where the hazard detector is physically located. In some examples the hazard detector may transmit the location information to the central server or system . As alluded to the user input could correspond to location information such as indication of a room type or room name where hazard detector is currently or instantly being installed. The location information could be stored locally to the hazard detector and or at the user s online management account e.g. the system and used to enhance the features of services provided by and to hazard detector .

The location information may be used to further configure the hazard detector . For example the location of hazard detector may be used to alter the way alerts and or alarms are provided and or how the hazard detector interprets data as acquired by its various sensors. More specifically for example the hazard detector may account for the environmental characteristics of a kitchen by adjusting a pre alarm threshold to make the hazard detector less sensitive to smoke and heat commonly observed in a kitchen environment. Also for example the hazard detector may account for increased humidity since higher levels of humidity is a characteristic of a kitchen environment e.g. higher humidity might develop in the kitchen when water is boiling on the stovetop. Further for example the hazard detector may alter an alert or alarm sequence such as by providing a user more opportunities to preemptively hush an alarm for a known safe smoke condition. In another example the hazard detector may be installed in a bedroom. To account for the environmental characteristics of a bedroom the hazard detector may automatically based upon a particular algorithm or manually based upon a particular user input become more sensitive to smoke and CO and or it may increase its alarm volumes for the purpose of waking up sleeping individuals upon detection of a potentially dangerous condition.

Referring now additionally to an example of the physical process associated with step is shown in accordance with the principles of the present disclosure. In this example an interface may be provided by or at the application on the mobile device to allow or enable a user select a particular installation location for or of the hazard detector by selecting a room type such as living room master bedroom and etc. It is contemplated that the user may perform a slide gesture on a list object causing the list of room types included on the list object to scroll up or down and place one of the room types in a select field . When the desired room type appears in the select field the user may select a done button to submit the user input that indicates the location of the hazard detector within the home. As shown in the list object includes the following selectable room types Living Room Master Bedroom Kids Bedroom Guest Bedroom and Dining Room. In general though the list object may also include different and or additional selectable room types e.g. other house rooms office building rooms a garage or mobile home rooms and so on and so forth. Alternatively the application may provide a field such as the field as shown in in which the user can manually enter a room name or room type for the location in which hazard detector is installed or another name for hazard detector .

Referring now additionally to another example of the physical process associated with step is shown in accordance with the principles of the present disclosure. According to this example the hazard detector may generate audio instructions such as Get ready to input a location of the detector. Here the hazard detector may pause for a moment and then output the audio Press now for Kitchen. If or when the user presses the lens button soon after hearing the Press now for Kitchen instruction then the hazard detector may set its location to Kitchen. If however the user does not press the lens button the hazard detector may output audio Press now for Bedroom. If the user presses the lens button soon after hearing the Press now for Bedroom instruction the hazard detector may set its location to Bedroom. It is contemplated that this process may continue until the user selects a particular location for installation of the hazard detector . Such audible commands are provided for illustrative purposes and there is an unlimited number of words and word combinations that may be used to communicate the same or different instructions.

Referring now back to at step of example method a user may be advised of recommended settings for the hazard detector based upon the identified location of the hazard detector . Some features of hazard detector may not be desirable for some locations and when installed in those locations the hazard detector can be placed in a limited operation mode in which one or more of those features are disabled. For example it is contemplated that garages are inadvisable locations in which to place a CO detector. However it is further contemplated that garages are advisable locations in which to place heat detectors. Accordingly and referring now additionally to if a user inputs Garage as the location at step then according to step the application may provide the user with a message informing the user that CO detection is not advisable in garages and giving the user the option of turning Off the CO detection function via a control element .

Referring now back to at step of the example method responsive to being advised of recommended settings for the hazard detector based on the location of the hazard detector the user may input their selections of which features to turn ON and OFF. As discussed above in connection with responsive to being advised that CO detection is not recommended in Garages the user can may press the control element to answer Yes or No to the question of whether to turn OFF the CO detection function. After selecting Yes or No the user may press the button to submit the selection. As discussed above in connection with responsive to being presented with the a list of recommended functions for a location a user may press a particular button to select which features the user wants turned OFF or ON. The user may then press the button to input the selections.

At step of the example method a test may performed to ensure that the hazard detector is not being or is installed in a bad or non preferable or non optimal location such as where one or more of its sensors are obstructed. In this example it is contemplated that the hazard detector may execute a self test where it leverages its ultrasonic sensor s to determine its position relative to walls ceilings floors and or other objects located in the room. For example the hazard detector may use its ultrasound sensor s to see if the hazard detector is located too deep in a corner or behind an obstruction where it does not have unobstructed access to monitor the conditions of a room including detecting occupancy of the room. In one example the hazard detector may test to determine whether it is too far in a corner by using its ultrasound sensor to detect whether the perpendicular walls are within a predetermined distance such as five feet or a couple of meters for example.

Referring now additionally to an example of a physical process associated with step is shown in accordance with the principles of the present disclosure. In this example an interface may be provided at or by the application on mobile device to explain that the hazard detector is ready to test whether it is installed in a good location where it can optimally detect hazardous conditions. Here it is contemplated that the user may press the button to begin the test. Also as illustrated in the hazard detector can output an audible message Press button to test my location. In response a particular individual users may press the lens button in the direction to begin the test. If the test fails due to hazard detector being position too close to an object for example such as a wall the application may display message and or hazard detector may output an audio and or visual cue or message indicating that hazard detector may be too close to an object such as a wall and also recommend relocation of the hazard detector to another position or location for installation.

Referring now back to at step of the example method the system see may confirm setup and pairing of the hazard detector . For example at step the application may provide one or both of an audio and visual cue or confirmation message that confirms the pairing association created at step and the setup selections made at steps and were or was successful. Referring now additionally to an example of a physical process associated with step is shown in accordance with the principles of the present disclosure. Here the application may display or output a screen in order to provide confirmation that the setup for the hazard detector is complete. The hazard detector may also generate a corresponding audio and or visual indicator. For example as shown in the hazard detector may generate the following output when the Kids Bedroom is the location selected at step Kids Bedroom Device Ready. Alternatively the hazard detector may generate other audio and or visual confirmation of the successful association. These confirmations may signify that hazard detector has been associated with the selected location at the online management account on the system . The user may then tap the continue button to confirm that the confirmation screen has been viewed. Although additional steps may not be required in order to complete the setup of hazard detector the user may still proceed with additional steps to verify that the hazard detector is functioning properly.

In some examples the input provided at the application as discussed in the context of the example method may be accomplished using speech recognition air gestures eye tracking and blink detection and or other input means. Again as mentioned above the method may also occur at a webpage as accessed via or by a personal computer or any other computing device. Furthermore although the communication between hazard detector and the mobile device is described above as occurring over WiFi other wireless protocols supported by both the hazard detector and the mobile device . Also while a limited number of visual and audio indicators generated by hazard detector were described above other indicators may also be generated by hazard detector during the example method .

According to the principles of the present disclosure alarm condition detection and notification services are provided to detect and warn users of alarm conditions in an environment such as a home. More particularly the hazard detector for example may detect alarm conditions based on information obtained from its sensors and provide corresponding alarms to perceivable to users or customers. In general alarm conditions may for example be divided into two categories pre hazardous conditions and serious hazardous conditions. Serious hazardous conditions may comprise situations where sensor data indicates that conditions in an environment are dangerous to the health and safety of individuals in the environment. Pre hazardous conditions may however comprise situations where the sensor data is not strong enough to support a serious hazardous condition but the sensor data is enough to suggest that a pre hazardous condition may exist in the environment and that it may be beneficial to notify users so they can investigate the condition and assess whether remedial measures are warranted to prevent the pre hazardous condition from escalating to a serious hazardous condition.

As mentioned the hazard detector may provide an alarm to users upon determining that an alarm condition exists in an environment. In a smoke related example the hazard detector may provide an alarm for smoke indicating an alarm condition for smoke exists in the environment. In one example the hazard detector may determine that an alarm condition for smoke exists when based on data obtained from its sensors it observes that conditions in the environment have reached or exceeded one or more predetermined thresholds including one or more of a smoke threshold a humidity threshold a CO threshold and a temperature threshold. In a particular example the hazard detector may determine that an alarm condition for smoke exists when the smoke level in the environment exceeds a threshold trend for smoke such as 0.5 obscuration for thirty consecutive seconds for example. In another smoke related example the hazard detector may determine that an alarm condition for smoke exists when the smoke level in the environment exceeds a threshold trend for smoke and the humidity level of the environment is decreasing. In other examples the hazard detector may determine that an alarm condition for smoke exists when the CO level of the environment exceeds a threshold value for CO such as CO 70 instantaneously for example or when the temperature of the environment exceeds a threshold trend for temperature such as temperature of environment increases by 10 F. in last three minutes for example.

In a CO related example the hazard detector may provide an alarm indicating an alarm condition for CO exists in the environment. In this example the hazard detector may determine that an alarm condition for CO exists when based on data from its sensors it observes that conditions in the environment have reached or exceeded one or more predetermined thresholds used to determine whether an alarm condition for CO exists. In one example the hazard detector may determine that an alarm condition for CO exists and then provide a corresponding alarm when its CO sensor observes CO levels above a threshold trend for CO such as CO concentration exceeds 50 ppm for thirty consecutive seconds or CO concentration exceeds 300 ppm after a three minute period etc. In some example a power law function such as a quadratic function may be used to model the threshold trend for CO. In an example quadratic function time is the independent variable and CO level is the dependent variable. If at a particular time the CO level of the environment exceeds the CO level provided by the quadratic function for that particular time then the hazard detector may determine that an alarm condition for CO exists. Other examples are possible.

In a heat related example the hazard detector may provide a pre alarm indicating a pre hazardous condition for heat that exists in the environment. In this example the hazard detector may determine that a pre alarm condition for heat exists when based on data from its sensors it observes that conditions in the environment have reached or exceeded one or more predetermined thresholds used to determine whether a pre hazardous condition for heat exists. In one example the hazard detector may determine that a pre hazardous condition for heat exists and provides a corresponding pre alarm when its heat sensor observes heat levels above a threshold value for heat such as when heat exceeds 90 F. In another example the hazard detector may determine that a pre hazardous condition for heat exists and then may provide a corresponding pre alarm when its heat sensor observes heat levels above a threshold trend for heat such as temperature that has increased by at least 12 F. over sixty seconds.

In yet another example the hazard detector may determine that a pre hazardous condition for heat exists and may then provide a corresponding pre alarm when its heat sensor observes heat levels above a threshold value and a threshold trend for heat such as temperature that exceeds 90 F. and the temperature has increased by at least 12 F. over sixty seconds. It should be appreciated that a linear function such as a piecewise linear function may be used to model the threshold trend for heat. In an example linear function time is the independent variable and temperature is the dependent variable. If at a particular time the temperature of the environment exceeds the temperature provided by the linear function for that particular time then the hazard detector may determine that a pre hazardous condition for heat exists.

As discussed throughout the hazard detector of the present disclosure may provide a pre alarming or pre alarm capability which may also be referred to as a heads up capability to provide a warning to a user that a pre hazardous condition has been detected in which there are elevated readings corresponding to a type of hazard s being detected but those readings do not yet rise to levels corresponding to an actual or serious alarm condition. Examples of pre alarm or heads up conditions may include but not limited to readings for carbon monoxide that are elevated but not high enough to warrant the sounding of a standard emergency carbon monoxide alarm or readings for smoke levels that are elevated but not high enough to warrant a sounding of a standard emergency smoke alarm.

When a heads up condition is detected the hazard detector may sound or output an audible but not ear piercing pre alarm or heads up message that audibly informs those within earshot of the pre alarm condition. In some examples a modulated light glow of a concerning color such as red or yellow and or spatiotemporal light pattern output via the light ring of the hazard detector may accompany the audio pre alarm message. One example of such an audible message that may be provided in the context of a pre alarm level of smoke for a hazard detector installed in a bedroom may comprise a bell or bell like sound followed by an voice message Heads up. There is smoke in the bedroom. In some examples once the pre alarm condition has gone away or subsided such as when for example an individual user has gone to the bedroom and snuffed out a cigarette that was in the ash tray and that action was successful in clearing up the smoke the hazard detector may then audibly advise that the pre alarm condition has cleared such as Smoke has cleared in or from the bedroom. In the event the pre alarm condition escalates into an actual or serious alarm condition then an ear piercing alarm my sound possibly accompanied by an emergency indicating halo glow output via the light ring such as a flashing red light also accompanied by during any regulation required or regulation permitted silence intervals between alarming a voice or audio alarm such as EMERGENCY. THERE IS SMOKE IN THE BEDROOM GET OUT NOW. Other examples are possible.

According to some examples users may hush the hazard detector to cause it to stop pre alarming and to continue monitoring the environment. While the hazard detector is hushed or quieted users may investigate whether the indicated pre hazardous condition indeed exists and take any necessary remedial measures. However if the pre hazardous condition persists the hazard detector may provide another pre alarm indicating that the pre hazardous condition still exists. Further the hazard detector may provide a regular or emergency or serious hazardous alarm indicating a serious hazardous condition exists if the pre hazardous condition escalates to a serious hazardous condition. In some examples the thresholds that the hazard detector uses when determining whether a serious hazardous condition exists are set to or at least based on UL Standards for Safety. In general those thresholds may not be adjusted or modified in a manner similar to of the pre alarm or heads up thresholds as discussed throughout. The present disclosure though is not so limited. For instance in some examples the thresholds that the hazard detector uses when determining whether a serious hazardous condition exists those set to or at least based on UL Standards for Safety may be adjusted or modified in a manner similar to of the pre alarm or heads up thresholds as discussed throughout possibly based upon implementation specific details.

According to examples the pre alarms indicating pre hazardous conditions provide details about the pre hazardous condition. For example the hazard detector and or the system may send a message to the mobile device of user stating specifics about the condition. In one particular example the message may comprise The CO level in your home has increased twenty percent in the last two weeks. You might consider having an expert inspect your home to determine the cause. Also for example the hazard detector and or other smart devices in the home may make similar audible announcements or display similar written messages such as for example via user interface or projection onto a wall or ceiling.

According to examples thresholds such as smoke thresholds CO thresholds heat thresholds etc. used by the hazard detector to determine whether a pre alarm condition exists are adjusted or set based at least in part on where the hazard detector is located. For example the thresholds used by a particular hazard detector located in a kitchen to detect pre alarm conditions in the kitchen may be different than the thresholds used to by a particular hazard detector located in a bedroom to detect pre alarm conditions in the bedroom. For example thresholds used by the hazard detector located in the kitchen may account for smoke levels common to kitchens thereby making the hazard detector less sensitive to smoke resulting from normal cooking activities that occur in kitchens and less likely to cause an undesired pre alarm. Reducing undesired pre alarms is one notable advantage provided by adjusting or setting thresholds based on where the hazard detector is located.

Referring now to an example method of setting one or more thresholds used by a hazard detector to determine whether an pre alarm condition exists. In this example the thresholds are set based the location of a particular hazard detector within a home or residence. As indicated at step the example method generally begins with the hazard detector receiving location information. In one example the location information may be provided by an individual during the process of installing the hazard detector . For example a user may provide the hazard detector with user input that indicates the location of the hazard detector within the home or residence. For example the user input may indicate the name or type of the room or area such as bedroom kitchen garage etc. where the hazard detector is located.

Examples of the hazard detector receiving such user input that indicates the location of the hazard detector are illustrated in . For example the application which is running on the mobile device may provide a user interface that allows a user to input a location for the hazard detector . To do so the user may interact with the list object causing the list of room types included on the list object to scroll up or down and place one of the room types in the select field . When the desired room type appears in select field the user may select the done button to submit the user input that indicates the location of the hazard detector within the home and the mobile device may then transmit the information to hazard detector .

At step predetermined thresholds that correspond to the location of the hazard detector may be accessed. In this example data may be provided that includes predetermined thresholds that the hazard detector may uses to set detection thresholds or threshold values which it uses to determine whether pre alarm conditions for smoke CO and heat among others exist in the location where it is installed. The predetermined thresholds vary based on location. For example thresholds for determining that an pre alarm condition for smoke exists in a nursery may be set to be substantially more sensitive less than the thresholds for determining that a pre alarm condition for smoke exists in the kitchen. This is consistent with the fact that a parent will likely want to have a heads up alert even for a little bit of smoke in the nursery whereas they will not want to be bothered by a pre alarm in the kitchen unless there is substantially more smoke because some degree of smoke is to be expected in the kitchen.

In some examples data having predetermined thresholds and corresponding locations is stored locally on the hazard detector . For example the data may be a lookup table stored in memory on the hazard detector . Thus to access predetermined thresholds according to step of the example method the hazard detector may access the lookup table stored in local memory. In other examples this data may be stored to or on a remote server such as the system . According to these examples the hazard detector may obtain a pre alarm threshold by receiving the same from a server via a network communication. For example the hazard detector may transmit via a network connection to a server such as the system for example a query message that includes the room type inputted by the user. Upon receiving the message the server may access data having room types and corresponding pre alarm thresholds to identify the pre alarm alarm thresholds that correspond to the room type. The server may then populate the identified pre alarm thresholds in a response message and send that message back to the hazard detector . Here the hazard detector may receive via the network connection from the server the response message that includes the pre alarm threshold that corresponds to the room type. Upon accessing data having predetermined thresholds and corresponding locations according to step the example method may proceed to step for identifying in the accessed data the predetermined thresholds that correspond to the location information.

Referring still to the method may then proceed to step for setting the thresholds of the hazard detector to be equal to the identified predetermined thresholds that correspond to the location of hazard detector . According to examples the hazard detector may set respective thresholds it uses to detect pre alarm conditions for smoke CO and heat equal to the corresponding predetermined thresholds identified according to step . According to further examples the hazard detector may automatically create a dynamically adjustable pre alarm based on historical CO data to detect a pre alarm condition involving CO in a garage even if the hazard detector is not located in the garage. CO detectors are typically not recommended for garages because of the high frequency of false alarms due to the high levels of CO produced by cars. However it is contemplated that it may be beneficial to provide CO detection for garages.

To provide said CO detection for garages the hazard detector may record a historical log of CO data that it has detected. This log may be stored locally on the hazard detector itself or it may be stored at the system . A processor of the hazard detector or of the system may apply one or more algorithms against the log of CO data to determine whether the data indicates that one or more automobiles are regularly started nearby. For example the algorithms may detect occasional CO spikes that quickly dissipate and based on the amount by which the CO level increases and the amount of time it takes for the detected CO to dissipate and the hazard detector or system may infer that the spike was caused by a car that was started and then driven away. If after making this inference that a car is regularly started and driven away the hazard detector may observe an incident where the CO spikes but does not dissipate according to schedule or known profile. Then the hazard detector may determine that a pre hazard condition for CO exists even if the increase CO levels are not high enough to warrant a serious hazardous condition or even a pre hazardous condition under usual circumstances.

Referring now back to as discussed above in connection with the same illustrates an example implementation of a particular smart hazard detector such as the hazard detector that may itself function as a guide during a process of installation of the same at an installation location and that the installation location of the particular smart hazard detector may play a central role in how various settings of the smart hazard detector are defined and adjusted over time. In particular at step an input may be provided or supplied to a particular smart hazard detector or a device or system communicatively coupled to or with the smart hazard detector for example that identifies an installation location within a residence of the smart hazard detector. An example of an installation location may include Hallway or Living Room or Garage of or within a particular residence for instance.

Such a feature or step may in some examples enable a method for configuring a hazard detector having a plurality of features and a default configuration profile that specifies predetermined ones of the plurality of features as enabled or disabled. An example default configuration profile is shown and discussed below in connection with a Table 1 and the subject example method may include or comprise a step i.e. a sub step of step of for example of providing an opportunity for a user to input a designated location for installation of the hazard detector within a residence in a manner similar to that as discussed throughout.

The method may additionally or alternatively include or comprise a step i.e. a sub step of step of for example of identifying at least one feature of the plurality of features to enable or disable based upon the designated location in response to receiving the designated location and a step of instantiating a command to enable or disable the at least one feature of the plurality of features of the hazard detector in response to identifying the at least one feature. The phrase in response to may in some examples discussed throughout refer to or otherwise designate a step s and or feature s of the present disclosure implemented and or performed automatically or as part of an automated process by a computer system or device such as the hazard detector without explicit manual user input. Other examples are possible.

Further as an example the mentioned plurality of features may include a smoke detection feature and a carbon monoxide detection feature and the mentioned default configuration profile may include an indication and or specify both of the smoke detection feature and carbon monoxide detection feature as enabled or activated or placed in an ON or a ready state etc. where the carbon monoxide detection feature may be disabled by the hazard detector when the mentioned designated location is of a predetermined type of location for which carbon monoxide detection is inadvisable or not recommended or the like. An example of such a type of location may include a garage type of location. Advantageously when the hazard detector is installed to such a particular type of location the carbon monoxide detection feature may be disabled or deactivated or placed in an OFF or a standby state etc. so as to prevent or at least minimize the instantiation of an alarm such as a heads up pre alarm for example due to carbon monoxide levels resultant from the starting running e.g. at least temporarily of a vehicle in a garage for example. In general a user may be advised that it is recommended to disable the carbon monoxide detection feature of a hazard detector installed in a garage for this and possibly other reasons. Other examples are possible.

The method may additionally or alternatively include or comprise a step of accessing information pre stored in a memory of the hazard detector to identify the at least one feature to enable or disable based upon the designated location. Additionally or alternatively the method may include or comprise a step of accessing information pre stored in a database remote from the hazard detector to identify the at least one feature to enable or disable based upon the designated location. Advantageously such an implementation may enable the hazard detector to when a network connection is available for example negotiate with a remote server system to identify the at least one feature to enable or disable based upon the designated location. Such information as stored and or maintained at or by the remote server system may periodically or at least intermittently be refreshed or updated so that in turn the hazard detector may be supplied the most current and up to date information as to recommended features to enable disable based upon the designated location. In this example the information pre stored in the memory of the hazard detector may then too be periodically or at least intermittently be refreshed or updated so that in instances when a network connection is not instantly or currently available. Accordingly such information as stored and or maintained at or by the hazard detector may periodically or at least intermittently be refreshed or updated so that in turn the hazard detector may have the most current and up to date information as to recommended features to enable disable. Other examples are possible.

The method may additionally or alternatively include or comprise a step of providing an opportunity for the user to override a particular setting in the default configuration profile so that an associated feature of the plurality of features is switched between enabled and disabled. In general with reference to Table 1 below that which is discussed in further detail below a user may interact with their smartphone for instance to navigate a website or a mobile application for example to selectively enable disable particular features of the hazard detector. as described above shows an example of a user interface that may enable the user to override or change a particular setting in the default configuration profile so that an associated feature of the plurality of features is switched between enabled and disabled. Advantageously such an implementation may allow the user to even further customize each instance of the hazard detector in their home based at least in part on where or what location a particular hazard detector is installed i.e. the designated location. Other examples are possible.

The method may additionally or alternatively include or comprise a step of outputting by a speaker system of the hazard detector an audible request for input of the designated location for installation of the hazard detector and receiving via actuation of a mechanical input device of the hazard detector an indication of the designated location for installation of the hazard detector. as described above shows an example of such an implementation. Other examples are possible. For instance the method may additionally or alternatively include or comprise a step of causing a computing device external to the hazard detector to prompt via user interface for input of the designated location for installation of the hazard detector and causing the computing device external to the hazard detector to transmit the designated location to one of the hazard detector and a computing device external to the hazard detector to identify the at least one feature to enable or disable based upon the designated location. as described above shows an example of such an implementation. Advantageously such example implementations may allow the user interact directly with the hazard detector to provide input or a specification as to the above mentioned designated location or when possible may allow the user interact directly with their smartphone to provide input or a specification as to the above mentioned designated location. Accordingly a user or customer need not necessarily have a smartphone or even access to a computer to provide input or a specification as to the above mentioned designated location. Still other examples are possible.

The method may additionally or alternatively include or comprise a step of receiving a designation of a particular region specific location of the residence identifying at least one feature of the plurality of features to enable or disable based upon the designation and instantiating a command to enable or disable the at least one feature of the plurality of features of the hazard detector. In this example it is contemplated that the phrase region specific may refer to at least one of a political boundary a geographical boundary one or more subsets of the same or any other type or form of demarcation and etc. For example a designation of a particular region specific location of the residence may include West Coast of the United States or California or Bay Area and etc. Other examples may include a postal code such as 94124 a time zone such as Pacific Standard Time a particular street address and or any combination thereof. Many other examples are possible and it is contemplated that such an implementation may advantageously enable the hazard detector to be served or provided with relevant region specific information that may then be conveyed in some way to a user or customer. For example information associated with national weather service warnings Amber Alerts daylight savings time settings and etc. may be aggregated by one or more delocalized server systems and then pushed down to the hazard detector and or a particular smartphone so that a user or customer may be informed of what might be considered particularly relevant information. For example an audio cue such as Severe Weather Is Approaching Your Home may be output by the hazard detector and at the same time an email or text message or the like might be sent to their smartphone stating the same. Still many other examples are possible.

As mentioned above the present disclosure is directed to or towards systems devices methods and related computer program products for providing hazard detection objectives. Accordingly the example implementation as discussed in connection with step of may take many forms. For example it is contemplated that a hazard detector may include or comprise a plurality of integrated features including one or more alarming functions and one or more home life enhancement functions and a processing system in operative communication with the plurality of integrated features that switches the at least one integrated feature from a first status to one of an enabled status and a disabled status an indication of which is output as a recommendation via user interface in response to a user based input that designates a particular location within a residence for installation of the hazard detector.

An example of the indication of which is output as a recommendation via user interface is shown and described above in connection with at least and . An example processing system is shown and described below in connection with at least and . Further it is contemplated that the plurality of integrated features may be selected from but not limited to a carbon monoxide detection feature a motion activated illumination feature a doorbell notification feature an intercom communication feature a voice command recognition feature a glass break recognition feature a distressed voice recognition feature an occupancy detection feature and a power outage notification feature. Table 1 below provides a summary of such example features and among other things illustrates example default or out of box settings of such features as well as an example of recommend settings of such features itemized on an room specific installation basis 

Table 1 is for example purposes only. In Table 1 represents ON and X represent OFF and a default row shows example default or out of box settings of features of the hazard detector of the present discussion e.g. hazard detector that which are itemized in the columns and the other rows show example recommended settings of the itemized features on a room type specific basis. With specific reference to the columns column 1 SK represents a smoke detection feature column 2 CO represents a carbon monoxide detection feature column 3 ML represents a motion pathway lighting or Pathlight feature column 4 DL represents a doorbell notification feature column 5 IC represents an intercom communication feature column 6 VR represents a voice command recognition feature column 7 OA represents an alarm if any occupancy feature column 8 GB represents a glass break microphone feature column 9 OD represents a disable occupancy detection feature column 10 BC represents a notify if baby cry feature column 11 PO represents a notify if power outage feature and column 12 IAQ represents an indoor air quality feature. It will thus be appreciated that such features represent hazard detection features as well as convenience features. This is consistent with the principles of the present disclosure in which it is contemplated that the hazard detector for instance in addition to providing hazard detection capabilities and warnings may also be seamlessly incorporated into a smart home automation environment. The example features of the hazard detector shown in Table 1 are discussed in further detail in connection with least .

Referring now again back to as discussed above in connection with the same illustrates an example implementation of a particular smart hazard detector such as the hazard detector that may itself function as a guide during a process of installation of the same at an installation location and that the installation location of the particular smart hazard detector may play a central role in how various settings of the smart hazard detector are defined and adjusted over time. In particular at step an input may be provided or supplied to a particular smart hazard detector or a device or system communicatively coupled to or with the smart hazard detector for example that identifies an installation location within a residence of the smart hazard detector. An example of an installation location may include Hallway or Living Room or Garage of or within a particular residence for instance.

Such a feature or step may in some examples enable a method for configuring a hazard detector having a heads up pre alarm capability a standard emergency alarm capability and a default configuration profile in which there is a first heads up pre alarm threshold for a hazard to be detected and an emergency alarm threshold for the hazard to be detected. An example default configuration profile is shown and discussed in connection with Table 1 above and the subject example method may include or comprise a step i.e. a sub step of step of for example of providing an opportunity for a user to input a designated location for installation of the hazard detector within a residence in a manner similar to that as discussed throughout.

The method may additionally or alternatively include or comprise a step i.e. a sub step of step of for example of identifying a second heads up pre alarm threshold based upon the designation of the particular location upon receiving the designated location and a step of instantiating a command to operate the hazard detector according to the second heads up pre alarm threshold and the emergency alarm threshold. Other examples are possible. However in this example and as discussed in detail above a heads up pre alarm is different than an emergency alarm in that a heads up pre alarm may be considered more of a gentle warning e.g. a beep beep followed by a particular audio visual notification of the possibility of a dangerous condition or scenario whereas a standard emergency alarm may be considered more of a serious warning e.g. an ear piercing siren followed by a particular audio visual notification that indicates the presence or imminent presence a dangerous condition or scenario.

The method may additionally or alternatively include or comprise a step of instantiating a command to set the second heads up pre alarm threshold to a level greater than the first heads up pre alarm threshold when the designated location corresponds to a type of household location predicted to be associated with levels of the hazard to be detected generally greater than one or more other types of household locations. In some examples the type of household location predicted to be associated with levels of the hazard to be detected generally greater than one or more other types of household locations may be selected from a kitchen type of location and a garage type of location. Other examples are however possible. Advantageously by raising the pre alarm threshold in such a manner the hazard detector may be less prone to outputting pre alarm warnings for a particular type of hazard when it is known that that type of hazard is common or the like in concentrations that would not necessarily warrant output of a standard emergency alarm. For example the pre alarm threshold for a smoke detection feature of a particular hazard detector installed in a kitchen might be raised in the example scenario so that smoke from burnt toast would not necessarily trigger a heads up pre alarm. At the same time the emergency threshold for the smoke detection feature of the hazard detector installed in the kitchen might be left alone or unchanged so that smoke from an oil fire likely to be more substantial than smoke from burnt toast would trigger an emergency alarm assuming one or more associated criterion are determined to be met by the hazard detector. Other examples are possible.

The method may additionally or alternatively include or comprise a step of instantiating a command to set the second heads up pre alarm threshold to a level less than the first heads up pre alarm threshold when the designated location corresponds to a type of household location predicted to be frequented by one or more individuals susceptible to irritation by the hazard to be detected. In some examples the type of household location predicted to be frequented by one or more individuals susceptible to irritation by the hazard to be detected may be selected from a bedroom type of location and a caregiver type of location. Other examples are possible. Advantageously by lowering the pre alarm threshold in such a manner the hazard detector may output pre alarm warnings for a particular type of hazard when it is known that that type of hazard is common in concentrations that might not necessarily trigger a pre alarm warning if the threshold were not lowered but those concentrations may or might still affect at risk individuals. For example the pre alarm threshold for a smoke detection feature of a particular hazard detector installed in a bedroom of child that has asthma might be lowered in the example scenario so that smoke that wafts in from a kitchen due to burnt toast might still trigger a heads up pre alarm even though concentration of the smoke in the bedroom might be considered minimal or low. In this way a parent or guardian might be sufficiently warned so as to be able to address the situation before the child is affected by the smoke even when there is not much smoke in the air at any particular instance in time. Other examples are possible.

The method may additionally or alternatively include or comprise a step of accessing information pre stored in a database remote from the hazard detector to identify the second heads up pre alarm threshold based upon the designation of the particular location. Additionally or alternatively the method may include or comprise a step of accessing information pre stored in a memory of the hazard detector to identify the second heads up pre alarm threshold based upon the designation of the particular location. Additionally or alternatively the method may include or comprise a step i.e. a sub step of step of for example of periodically or intermittently receiving an update to the second heads up pre alarm threshold from a computing system remote from the hazard detector. Advantageously such an implementation may enable the hazard detector to when a network connection is available for example negotiate with a remote server system to identify the second heads up pre alarm threshold based upon the designation of the particular location. Such information as stored and or maintained at or by the remote server system may periodically or at least intermittently be refreshed or updated so that in turn the hazard detector may be supplied the most current and up to date information as to a particular value of the second heads up pre alarm threshold based upon the designation of the particular location. Accordingly such information as stored and or maintained at or by the hazard detector may periodically or at least intermittently be refreshed or updated so that in turn the hazard detector may have the most current and up to date information as to a particular value of the second heads up pre alarm threshold based upon the designation of the particular location. Other examples are possible.

The method may additionally or alternatively include or comprise a step of providing an opportunity for the user to manually modify or adjust the second heads up pre alarm threshold. The method may additionally or alternatively include or comprise a step of prompting via user interface for input to modify or adjust the second heads up pre alarm threshold and instantiating a command to increase or decrease the second heads up pre alarm threshold based on received user input. It is contemplated that the example user interface of and or may be modified so as to enable such features as discussed in the context of the present disclosure. For example a sensitivity control or button or the like may be positioned or located adjacent or at least near the CO Detection ON OFF button or control as shown in . It is contemplated that an indicator or indication such as Current threshold setting is CO 200 ppm instantaneously after 5 min of monitoring press the increase or decrease control button to increase decrease the setting in increments of 50 ppm may be presented. Since the subject hazard detector is installed to a garage type of location a savvy user or customer might press the increase control button until the indicator reads Current threshold setting is CO 400 ppm instantaneously after 5 min of monitoring press increase or decrease control button to increase decrease concentration setting in increments of 50 ppm. By raising the pre alarm threshold in this scenario annoying false alarms due the starting of a vehicle for example might be minimized. It is contemplated that such an action when performed may ultimately enable the hazard detector to self adjust its pre alarm threshold setting s so the subject pre alarm threshold of the present example may be raised or elevated or increased accordingly. Advantageously such an implementation may allow the user to even further customize each instance of the hazard detector in their home based at least in part on where or what location a particular hazard detector is installed i.e. based upon the designation of the particular location. Other examples are possible.

As mentioned above the present disclosure is directed to or towards systems devices methods and related computer program products for providing hazard detection objectives. Accordingly the example implementation as discussed in connection with step of may take many forms. For example it is contemplated that a hazard detector may include or comprise at least one hazard detection feature and a processing system in operative communication with the at least one hazard detection feature that adjusts a first heads up pre alarm threshold of the at least one hazard detection feature to a second heads up pre alarm threshold in response to a user input that identifies a particular installation location of the hazard detector within a residence so that the at least one hazard detection feature operates according to the second heads up pre alarm threshold for a hazard to be detected and a standard emergency alarm threshold for the hazard to be detected.

In one example the second heads up pre alarm threshold may be adjusted to a level greater than the first heads up pre alarm up threshold. In another example the second heads up pre alarm threshold is adjusted to a level less than the first heads up pre alarm up threshold. In one example the at least one hazard detection feature may in include or comprise a carbon monoxide detection feature. In another example the at least one hazard detection feature may include or comprise a smoke detection feature. Many other examples are possible. Further it is contemplated that the hazard detector may include or comprise any of a variety of other components or elements.

For example the hazard detector may include or comprise an output device such as a speaker and or microphone system. In this example it is contemplated that a particular audible alert of first volume intensity may be generated by the output device when a detected magnitude of the hazard is determined to be greater than the second heads up pre alarm threshold and less than the emergency alarm threshold and another particular audible alert of second volume intensity greater than the first volume intensity may be generated by the output device when the detected magnitude of the hazard is determined to be greater than the emergency alarm threshold. Such an implementation is consistent with the above described differences between heads up pre alarms and standard emergency alarms of the present disclosure. In particular a heads up pre alarm is different than a standard emergency alarm in that a heads up pre alarm may be considered more of a gentle warning of the possibility of a dangerous condition or scenario whereas an emergency alarm may be considered more of a serious warning that indicates the presence or imminent presence a dangerous condition or scenario. It is though contemplated that other alarms or alerts may be output by the output device.

For instance in one example a particular audible alert may be output by the output device when a detected magnitude of the above mentioned hazard is determined to be increasing to indicate rising levels of the hazard. An example of such an output may include CO levels are increasing. Open a window in the bedroom. Other examples are possible. For instance in one example a particular audible alert may be output by the when a detected magnitude of the above mentioned hazard is determined to be decreasing to indicate falling levels of the hazard. An example of such an output may include CO levels are decreasing and it has been detected that the window in the bedroom is open. It is OK to now close the window in the bedroom. Still many other examples are possible.

Referring now again back to as discussed above in connection with the same illustrates an example implementation of a particular smart hazard detector such as the hazard detector that may itself function as a guide during a process of installation of the same at an installation location and that the installation location of the particular smart hazard detector may play a central role in how various settings of the smart hazard detector are defined and adjusted over time. With reference to step such an implementation may enable a method for guiding installation of a hazard detector. For example the method may include or comprise a step i.e. a sub step of step of for example of receiving by the hazard detector during installation at a particular location within a residence an input command to test whether an instant placement of the hazard detector would prevent the hazard detector from operating within specification to detect and or mitigate one or more hazards. The method may additionally or alternatively include or comprise a step of implementing by the hazard detector in response to receiving the input command a test sequence to determine whether the instant placement of the hazard detector would prevent the hazard detector from operating within specification to detect and or mitigate one or more hazards. The method may additionally or alternatively include or comprise a step of outputting by the hazard detector a particular notification during installation at the particular location when it is determined that the instant placement of the hazard detector would prevent the hazard detector from operating within specification to detect and or mitigate one or more hazards based upon readings of at least one component of the hazard detector.

Other examples are possible. In the present example though the phrase instant placement may in some examples refer to a current or present position and or orientation of the hazard detector as intended for installation. For example an individual who is in the process of installing the hazard detector may hold the same in their hand and then place or position the hazard detector to a specific location or spot on a ceiling in a hallway of the residence. At this point though the hazard detector is not secured or otherwise fastened to the ceiling. That though may be done to perfect installation of the hazard detector at the instant placement of the same. Further the phrase prevent the hazard detector from operating within specification to detect and or mitigate one or more hazards or variations thereof may in some examples refer to a scenario in which at least one function or feature of the hazard detector would not be able to operate or function as intended if the hazard detector were secured or otherwise fastened at a position corresponding to the instant placement of the same. For example if the hazard detector were worst case scenario placed in a drawer or closet features such as a carbon monoxide detector smoke detector ambient light detector etc. of the hazard detector may not operate as intended if the hazard detector were secured or otherwise fastened to surface in the drawer. This is because the hazard detector in this example would be installed in a tightly confined space. As another example if the hazard detector were installed in a ceiling corner this may violate a recommended and or mandated placement of the hazard detector to be 6 inches or greater or more from any particular wall surface for example. Still many other examples are possible.

The method may additionally or alternatively include or comprise a step of determining based upon readings of a proximity sensor of the hazard detector that the instant placement of the hazard detector is within a prohibitive distance from one or more wall or ceiling surfaces and in response to the determining outputting the particular notification to indicate that the instant placement of the hazard detector would prevent the hazard detector from operating within specification to detect and or mitigate one or more hazards. In some examples the proximity sensor may comprise of an ultrasonic sensor. In other example the proximity sensor may comprise of an LED time of flight range finder. Still many other examples are possible. In these examples though it is contemplated that the proximity sensor may transmit an interrogating pulse such as once every 10 milliseconds for example so that the proximity sensor and ultimately the hazard detector may determine if the hazard detector at a position corresponding to the instant placement of the same is too close to a surface of one or more walls for example. If this were the case it is contemplated that the hazard detector may provide feedback such as an audible the hazard detector is placed too close to the wall and or a visual flashing red or flashing yellow sequence as output by the light ring of the hazard detector. In practice if the hazard detector were in real time moved to a distance that is not or no longer too close to a surface of one or more walls it is contemplated that the hazard detector may provide additional feedback such as an audible the hazard detector is no longer too close the wall and or a visual flashing green sequence or a steady green visual cue. Still many other examples are possible.

The method may additionally or alternatively include or comprise a step of determining based upon a reading of an orientation sensor of the hazard detector that an instant spatial orientation of the hazard detector is unsuitable for one or more features of the hazard detector to operate as intended and in response to the determining outputting the particular notification to indicate that the instant placement of the hazard detector would prevent the hazard detector from operating within specification to detect and or mitigate one or more hazards. In some examples the orientation sensor may comprise of an accelerometer. In some examples the orientation sensor may comprise of a gyroscope. Still many other examples are possible. In these examples though it is contemplated that the orientation sensor may detect an instant orientation of the hazard detector such as 45 degrees as measured with respect to a reference axis or normal as shown in which might be defined as 0 degrees when the hazard detector is placed face up on a flat surface. Thus in a typical installation scenario the hazard detector when positioned to a flat ceiling surface may be determined by the orientation sensor to be at 180 degrees as measured with respect to a reference axis or normal as shown in . The example method though by which the hazard detector or a component thereof quantifies or determines orientation of the hazard detector is an example only. In many instances the orientation sensor of the hazard detector itself may be calibrated so that no frame of reference as defined with respect to another features or surface of the hazard detector would be needed or necessary.

In some examples a particular orientation may not be preferable in comparison to other orientations. For example in some implementation specific situations or scenarios it may be more preferred to have the hazard detector when installed to be at 180 degrees e.g. approximately upside down as opposed to 45 degrees or within a tolerance range thereof. Further similar to the above example it is contemplated that the hazard detector may provide feedback such as an audible the hazard detector is currently placed at a non optimal angle and or a visual flashing red or flashing yellow sequence as output by the light ring of the hazard detector. In practice if the hazard detector were in real time moved or manipulated to a more optimal or preferred orientation it is contemplated that the hazard detector may provide additional feedback such as an audible the hazard detector is currently placed at an appropriate angle and or a visual flashing green sequence or a steady green visual cue. Still many other examples are possible.

The method may additionally or alternatively include or comprise a step of determining that an instant wireless signal strength detected by the hazard detector is within an unacceptable range and in response to the determining outputting the particular notification to indicate that the instant placement of the hazard detector would prevent the hazard detector from operating within specification to detect and or mitigate one or more hazards. In some examples a WiFi module or radio of the hazard detector may determine that signal strength is too low or too intermittent or the like for the hazard detector to establish a reliable communication link with a local network or the like. Here it is contemplated that the hazard detector may provide feedback such as an audible the hazard detector cannot connect to the home network and or a visual flashing red or flashing yellow sequence as output by the light ring of the hazard detector. In practice if the hazard detector were in real time moved or manipulated to a more optimal orientation it is contemplated that the hazard detector may provide additional feedback such as an audible signal strength is good and the hazard detector is now connected to the home network and or a visual flashing green sequence or a steady green visual cue. Still many other examples are possible.

The method may additionally or alternatively include or comprise a step of determining that a particular hazard detection feature of the hazard detector is operating within an unacceptable range due to instant or current readings being outside of an acceptable range and in response to the determining outputting the particular notification to indicate that the instant placement of the hazard detector would prevent the hazard detector from operating within specification to detect and or mitigate one or more hazards. In some examples the particular hazard detection feature may comprise of a carbon monoxide detection feature. In some examples the particular hazard detection feature may comprise of a smoke detection feature. In some examples the particular hazard detection feature may comprise of an ambient light sensor detection feature. In some examples the particular hazard detection feature may comprise of an ambient temperature detection feature. Still many other examples are possible. In these examples though if the particular hazard detection feature cannot function properly due to sensor or sensory overload an obstruction or the like the hazard detector may provide feedback such as an audible the temperature sensor of the hazard detector is not functioning properly is the hazard detector placed in direct sunlight and or a visual flashing red or flashing yellow sequence as output by the light ring of the hazard detector. In practice if the hazard detector were in real time moved or manipulated to a more optimal orientation or position it is contemplated that the hazard detector may provide additional feedback such as an audible the temperature sensor of the hazard detector is now functioning properly and or a visual flashing green sequence or a steady green visual cue. Still many other examples are possible.

As mentioned above the present disclosure is directed to or towards systems devices methods and related computer program products for providing hazard detection objectives. Accordingly the example implementation as discussed in connection with step of may take many forms. For example it is contemplated that a hazard detector may include or comprise at least one component to test during installation of the hazard detector at a particular location whether an instant placement of the hazard detector would prevent the hazard detector from operating within specification to detect and or mitigate one or more hazards and a processing system in operative communication with the at least one component that determines based upon readings of the at least one component whether an instant placement of the hazard detector during installation thereof would prevent the hazard detector from operating within specification to detect and or mitigate one or more hazards and when it is determined that the instant placement of the hazard detector would prevent the hazard detector from operating within specification to detect and or mitigate one or more hazards causes a notification alert to be output to guide a user during installation of the hazard detector to a suitable installation location for the hazard detector. In this example it is contemplated that the at least one component may take many forms examples of which are discussed here and also in further detail in connection with at least .

For instance in one example the at least one component may include or comprise an ultrasound sensor that determines a distance of the hazard detector from at least one surface in proximity to the hazard detector based on reflections of interrogating ultrasonic waves. As another example the at least one component may include or comprise a time of flight LED component that determines a distance of the hazard detector from at least one surface in proximity to the hazard detector based on reflections of interrogating optical waves. As yet another example the at least one component may include or comprise a video camera that determines a distance of the hazard detector from at least one surface in proximity to the hazard detector based on image segmentation and surface recognition. In such implementation specific examples the notification alert may be output by the hazard detector when it is determined that the distance of the hazard detector from the at least one surface is less than or equal to a predetermined and regulated distance. Such a distance may be an authority mandated distance such as 12 inches or greater from a wall surface for example. Other examples are possible and may be specific to region specific or country specific possibly mandated requirements.

As another example the at least one component may include or comprise a GPS component that determines whether the particular location is of a type prohibitive for installation of the hazard detector. In this example the notification alert may be output by the hazard detector when it is determined that the particular location is a prohibited or non recommended type for installation of the hazard detector such as a garage or shed for example. For instance the GPS component may be able to resolve possibly in tandem with one or more other component of the hazard detector such as a WiFi module or radio that might be able to derive via triangulation approximate position or location of the hazard detector within the residence that the hazard detector an intended installation location of the hazard detector is a garage or shed for example. Here based on that determination the hazard detector might output an audible the garage is not an optimal location of installation the hallway adjacent the garage might be a better choice and or a visual flashing red or flashing yellow sequence as output by the light ring of the hazard detector. In the example scenario if the hazard detector were in real time moved to the hallway adjacent the garage for installation thereto it is contemplated that the hazard detector may provide additional feedback such as an audible thank you for deciding to install at the recommended location and or a visual flashing green sequence or a steady green visual cue. Still many other examples are possible.

As yet another example the hazard detector may include or comprise various other components such as a communication interface that receives from a camera system external to the hazard detector an indication of whether the instant placement of the hazard detector would prevent the hazard detector from operating within specification to detect and or mitigate one or more hazards. In this example notification alert may be output by the hazard detector when it is determined based upon the indication that the instant placement of the hazard detector would prevent the hazard detector from operating within specification to detect and or mitigate one or more hazards. For example the camera system may detect that the hazard detector is being installed in a closet and then transmit a particular signal to the hazard detector to prompt the hazard detector to output an audible the closet is not an optimal location for installation of your hazard detector the ceiling in the bedroom is but do not install the hazard detector so that it is within 6 inches of any wall surface and or a visual flashing red or flashing yellow sequence as output by the light ring of the hazard detector. In the example scenario if the hazard detector were in real time moved to the ceiling in the bedroom is for installation thereto it is contemplated that the hazard detector may provide additional feedback such as an audible thank you for deciding to install at the recommended location and or a visual flashing green sequence or a steady green visual cue. Still many other examples are possible.

Referring now again back to as discussed above in connection with the same illustrates an example implementation of a particular smart hazard detector such as the hazard detector that may itself function as a guide during a process of installation of the same at an installation location and that the installation location of the particular smart hazard detector may play a central role in how various settings of the smart hazard detector are defined and adjusted over time. With reference to step such an implementation may enable a method for adjusting pre alarm thresholds of a hazard detector that is installed to a particular location within a residence and that has a heads up pre alarm capability and a standard emergency alarm capability. For example the method may include or comprise a step i.e. a sub step of step of for example of analyzing data as detected by a particular sensor of the hazard detector over a particular time period to identify a reoccurring trend in which hazard levels are sufficient to exceed a pre alarm threshold but insufficient to exceed an emergency alarm threshold and a step of raising the pre alarm threshold to a particular level upon detection of onset of a subsequent instance of the reoccurring trend so that the hazard detector is less prone to instantiate a pre alarm alert for detected instances of the reoccurring trend but does instantiate a pre alarm alert in absence of the reoccurring trend and when detected hazard levels are sufficient to exceed the pre alarm threshold but insufficient to exceed the emergency alarm threshold.

Other examples are possible. In the present example though the particular time period may correspond to one of a particular day time period a particular week time period a particular month time period and a particular year time period. Further historical data as acquired by the particular sensor of the hazard detector may be analyzed to identify a reoccurring or recurring trend in the data that may be representative of and or reflect on a particular user activity or the like for instance. For example upon an analysis of the historical data as acquired by the particular sensor of the hazard detector it may be determined that every morning Monday Friday carbon monoxide levels moderately increase generally sometime between 6 30 AM to 7 00 AM and then dissipate relatively quickly. In this example it is contemplated that an initial pre alarm threshold for carbon monoxide level may be set low enough so that levels associated with the reoccurring trend may trigger a pre alarm alert but do not trigger an emergency alarm. Here the hazard detector may in response to a command raise or increase the pre alarm threshold to a particular level so that the reoccurring trend does not trigger a pre alarm alert. When the reoccurring trend though is not detected by the hazard detector and carbon monoxide levels exceed the initial pre alarm threshold the levels may still trigger a pre alarm alert.

The method may additionally or alternatively include or comprise a step i.e. a sub step of step of for example of correlating occurrence of the reoccurring trend with a particular sensor reading of another particular sensor of the hazard detector and raising the pre alarm threshold to the particular level upon detection of onset of the subsequent instance of the reoccurring trend and when an instant sensor reading of the another particular sensor correspond to the particular sensor reading. In this example historical data as acquired by another particular sensor of the hazard detector may too or in tandem be examined or analyzed possibility during or concurrently to step to determine whether another detectable event typically coincides with occurrence of the reoccurring trend. For example historical data as acquired by an ambient light sensor of the hazard detector may indicate that a general increase in light intensity or brightness such as due to the opening of a garage door typically coincides with occurrence of the reoccurring trend a carbon monoxide trend in this example. In this example detection by the hazard detector of the reoccurring trend and a general increase in light intensity or brightness may trigger the hazard detector to raise the pre alarm threshold to the particular level. Other examples are possible.

The method may additionally or alternatively include or comprise a step of correlating occurrence of the reoccurring trend with a particular hazard level as detected by a particular sensor of another hazard detector that is installed to another particular location within the residence and raising the pre alarm threshold to the particular level upon detection of onset of the subsequent instance of the reoccurring trend and when an instant hazard level as detected by the particular sensor of the another hazard detector is greater than or equal to the particular hazard level. In this example historical data as acquired by a particular sensor of another hazard detector may too be examined or analyzed possibility during step to determine whether another detectable event typically coincides with occurrence of the reoccurring trend. For example historical data as acquired by an occupancy sensor of the another hazard detector may indicate that presence of an individual in a living room typically coincides with occurrence of the reoccurring trend that is detected by the hazard detector installed to a garage. In this example this may correspond to the individual waiting for their car to warm up in the garage and detection by the hazard detector of the reoccurring trend a carbon monoxide trend in this example together with an affirmative occupancy sensor reading of the another hazard detector may trigger the hazard detector to raise the pre alarm threshold to the particular level. Other examples are possible.

The method may additionally or alternatively include or comprise a step of correlating occurrence of the reoccurring trend with a particular status of a particular element of a home automation system installed at the residence and raising the pre alarm threshold to the particular level upon detection of onset of the subsequent instance of the reoccurring trend and when an instant status of the particular element of the home automation system corresponds to the particular status. In this example the hazard detector may be communicatively coupled to a home automation gateway device and historical data as acquired by the home automation gateway device may too be examined or analyzed possibility during step to determine whether another detectable event typically coincides with occurrence of the reoccurring trend. For example historical data as acquired by the home automation gateway device may indicate that the opening of a garage door typically coincides with occurrence of the reoccurring trend a carbon monoxide trend in this example. In this example detection by the hazard detector of the reoccurring trend and opening of the garage door may trigger the hazard detector to raise the pre alarm threshold to the particular level. Other examples are possible.

The method may additionally or alternatively include or comprise a step of correlating occurrence of the reoccurring trend with a particular time period of day and raising the pre alarm threshold to the particular level upon detection of onset of the subsequent instance of the reoccurring trend and when an instant time of day is determined by the hazard detector to correspond with the particular time period of day. The method may additionally or alternatively include or comprise a step of correlating occurrence of the reoccurring trend with a particular time period of year and raising the pre alarm threshold to the particular level upon detection of onset of the subsequent instance of the reoccurring trend and when an instant time of day is determined by the hazard detector to correspond with the particular time period of year. In these examples it is contemplated that a temporal aspect such as time of day and or time of year may play into the decision by the hazard detector to raise the pre alarm threshold.

For example upon an analysis of the historical data as acquired by the particular sensor of the hazard detector it may be determined that every morning Monday Friday carbon monoxide levels moderately increase generally sometime between 6 30 AM to 7 00 AM and then dissipate relatively quickly. As another example upon an analysis of the historical data as acquired by the particular sensor of the hazard detector it may be determined that every morning M F only during the winter months carbon monoxide levels moderately increase generally sometime between 6 30 AM to 7 00 AM and then dissipate relatively quickly. In these examples detection by the hazard detector of the reoccurring trend during the time period between 6 30 AM to 7 00 AM and possibly during a particular winter month such as January may trigger the hazard detector to raise the pre alarm threshold to the particular level. Other examples are possible.

As mentioned above the present disclosure is directed to or towards systems devices methods and related computer program products for providing hazard detection objectives. Accordingly the example implementation as discussed in connection with step of may take many forms. For example it is contemplated that a hazard detector that is installed to a particular location within a residence and that has a heads up pre alarm capability and a standard emergency alarm capability may include or comprise at least one sensor and a processing system in operative communication with the least one sensor that raises a pre alarm threshold associated with the at least one sensor to a particular level in response to detection by the at least one sensor of onset of an instance of a recurring trend so that the hazard detector is less prone to instantiate a pre alarm alert for detected instances of the recurring trend but does instantiate a pre alarm alert in absence of the recurring trend and when hazard levels detected by the at least one sensor are sufficient to exceed the pre alarm threshold but insufficient to exceed an emergency alarm threshold associated with the at least one sensor. Such a feature may be beneficial and or advantages for reasons similar to that discussed above in connection with at steps . Still other examples are possible as may be understood upon inspection of the present application in its entirety.

Referring now to an embodiment of system that includes a hazard detector having various components that can be enabled or disabled separately depending on the operating environment of the hazard detector is shown. In general the hazard detector may correspond to the hazard detector as shown and described above. The hazard detector may include a smoke detection module a carbon monoxide detection module a conditional lighting module a doorbell notification module an intercom communication module a voice recognition module a conditional occupancy alarm module a glass break monitor an occupancy detection disabler a baby cry monitor a power outage monitor an air quality monitor and a wireless communication interface . One or more of such components may be implemented using one or more processors of the hazard detector and or one or more sensors of the hazard detector .

The smoke detection module may represent one or more sensors configured to detect smoke in the environment of the hazard detector . The smoke detection module may be configured to determine when smoke levels in the ambient environment of the hazard detector has risen above one or more threshold values. For instance the smoke detection module may determine when the smoke level in the ambient environment has reached a pre alarm level e.g. a heads up and also when it has reached an alarm emergency level. The smoke detection module may be enabled or disabled depending on the type of location in which hazard detector has been specified as installed.

The carbon monoxide detection module may represent one or more sensors configured to detect carbon monoxide in the environment of the hazard detector . The carbon monoxide detection module may be configured to determine when carbon monoxide levels in the ambient environment of the hazard detector has risen above one or more threshold values. For instance the carbon monoxide detection module may determine when the carbon monoxide level in the ambient environment has reached a pre alarm level e.g. a heads up and also when it has reached an alarm emergency level. The carbon monoxide detection module may be enabled or disabled depending on the type of location in which hazard detector has been specified as installed. As an example if hazard detector is installed within a garage it may be desirable for carbon monoxide detection module to be disabled to prevent pre alarms based on a vehicle s emissions.

The conditional lighting module which may also be referred to as a path light feature may output lighting e.g. via light ring under certain conditions such as when motion is detected in the ambient environment of the hazard detector and the brightness level detected by a light sensor of the hazard detector indicates the ambient brightness level is below a stored threshold value. The conditional lighting module may therefore illuminate a light of the hazard detector when a user is moving in the vicinity of the hazard detector in the dark. The conditional lighting module may be enabled or disabled depending on the type of location in which hazard detector has been specified as installed. As an example if hazard detector is installed within a bedroom it may be desirable for conditional lighting module to be disabled such that movements of a person while asleep do not trigger the conditional lighting module to activate the light of the hazard detector .

The doorbell notification module and the intercom communication module may respectively be coupled either directly or indirectly via a home automation gateway system to enable the hazard detector to output via speaker system a notification e.g. doorbell sound when a particular doorbell actuator is pressed and to enable the hazard detector to function as a two way communication system via a microphone speaker system incorporated into the intercom communication module . The voice recognition module in contrast may be configured to receive affirmative voice commands via one or more microphones of the hazard detector . For instance commands may be received to enable or disable various other modules of the hazard detector . As an example a user may be able to state disable conditional lighting module. Such a command may disable the illumination of a light of the hazard detector when motion is detected and the ambient brightness levels are below threshold value.

The voice recognition module and or the baby cry monitor may also be able to perform distressed voice recognition. Such distressed voice recognition may be the ability to identify stress in a human voice in the ambient environment of the hazard detector. Such detection may be useful for determining when an emergency is present in the vicinity of the hazard detector if a baby is crying and etc. The voice recognition module may be enabled or disabled depending on the type of location in which the hazard detector has been specified as installed. As an example if the hazard detector is installed within a home theatre or other place where a television is typically present it may be desirable for the voice recognition module to be disabled or at least the distressed voice recognition is disabled such that human voice from a television program e.g. a scary movie does not trigger an action by voice recognition module .

The conditional occupancy alarm module may monitor for undesired human presence such as in a home security scenario and when an undesired human presence is detected the conditional occupancy alarm module may command the hazard detector to output an emergency alarm and possible contact a third party such as 911 for example. In some examples the occupancy detection disabler may enable disable occupancy detection functionality of the hazard detector . The glass Break monitor may be configured to monitor for the sound of glass breaking in the ambient environment of hazard detector . The glass break monitor may receive audio via one or more microphones of the hazard detector . The glass break monitor may be triggered to alert one or more other devices if glass is detected as breaking possibly signaling a break in or vandalism. The glass break monitor may be enabled or disabled depending on the type of location in which the hazard detector has been specified as installed. As an example if the hazard detector is installed within a home theatre or other place where a television is typically present it may be desirable for the glass break monitor to be disabled such that sound from a television program e.g. an action movie does not trigger an action by the glass break monitor .

The baby cry monitor may be configured to monitor for the sound of a baby crying in the ambient environment of the hazard detector . The baby cry monitor may receive audio via one or more microphones of hazard detector . The baby cry monitor may be triggered to alert one or more other devices if a baby is determined to be crying in the vicinity of the hazard detector. The baby cry monitor may be enabled or disabled depending on the type of location which hazard detector has been specified as installed. As an example if the hazard detector is installed within a nursery it may be desirable for the baby cry monitor to be disabled such that a baby crying where it is usually located e.g. his or her crib does not trigger an action by the baby cry monitor .

The power outage monitor may be configured to monitor for the hazard detector losing power from the electrical power source of a structure which is typically 120 VAC or 240 VAC. The power outage monitor may be configured to determine when power is no longer available via the structures wired power source to the hazard detector . The power outage monitor may confirm the power loss via one or more additional arrangements such as by detecting the decrease in artificial lighting at around the same time power was lost or for example by receiving a message from another smart home device indicative of power being lost. The power outage monitor may be enabled or disabled depending on the type of location which the hazard detector has been specified as installed. As an example if the hazard detector is installed on a circuit that loses power frequently it may be desirable for the power outage monitor to be disabled such that a temporary power loss does not trigger an action by the power outage monitor .

The air quality monitor may be configured to monitor the air quality in the vicinity of the hazard detector . The air quality monitor may monitor the ambient air quality for various contaminants such as volatile organic compounds carbon monoxide excessive carbon dioxide ammonium etc. The air quality monitor may be configured to notify one or more devices when various stored threshold values are met by measurements of the ambient air. The air quality monitor may be enabled or disabled depending on the type of location which the hazard detector has been specified as installed. As an example if the hazard detector is installed in a kitchen it may be desirable for the air quality monitor to be disabled such that burning food does not trigger an action by the air quality monitor .

The supplemental features module may include one or more features to at least enable the hazard detector to output a particular notification during installation of the hazard detector at the particular location when it is determined that an instant placement of the hazard detector may prevent the hazard detector from operating within specification to detect and or mitigate one or more hazards. An example of such a feature may include but is not limited to a proximity sensor such as an ultrasonic sensor and an LED time of flight range finder for example an orientation sensor such as an accelerometer and gyroscope for example a wireless signal strength module for example a carbon monoxide detection feature a smoke detection feature an ambient light sensor detection feature and an ambient temperature detection feature for example. Another example of such a feature includes a video camera that determines a distance of the hazard detector from at least one surface in proximity to the hazard detector based on image segmentation and surface recognition. Another example of such a feature includes a GPS component that determines whether a particular location of installation of the hazard detector is of a type prohibitive for installation of the hazard detector.

Also shown in is a video camera that is separate and external from the hazard detector . The video camera camera includes an audio acquisition module to acquire or capture audio a video acquisition module to acquire or capture video and a communication interface to transfer audio and or video to the communication interface of the hazard detector possibly along with an indication of whether an instant placement of the hazard detector might prevent the hazard detector from operating within specification to detect and or mitigate one or more hazards in a manner as discussed throughout.

Referring now to an exemplary environment with which examples may be implemented is shown with a computer system that can be used by a user to remotely control for example one or more of the sensor equipped smart home devices according to one or more of the examples. The computer system or server can alternatively be used for carrying out one or more of the server based processing paradigms described hereinabove or as a processing device in a larger distributed virtualized computing scheme for carrying out the described processing paradigms or for any of a variety of other purposes consistent with the present teachings. The computer system can include a computer keyboard a network router a printer and a monitor . The monitor computer and keyboard are part of a computer system which can be a laptop computer desktop computer handheld computer mainframe computer etc. The monitor can be a CRT flat screen etc.

A user can input commands into the computer using various input devices such as a mouse keyboard track ball touch screen etc. If the computer system comprises a mainframe a user can access the computer using for example a terminal or terminal interface. Additionally the computer system may be connected to a printer and a server using a network router which may connect to the Internet or a WAN. While element is labeled Internet it is contemplated that element may incorporate or exhibit any number of features or elements of various wireless and or hardwired packet based communication networks such as for example a WAN Wide Area Network network a HAN Home Area Network network a LAN Local Area Network network a WLAN Wireless Local Area Network network a cellular communications network or any other type of communication network configured such that data may be transferred between and among respective elements of the environment .

The server may for example be used to store additional software programs and data. In one example software implementing the systems and methods described herein can be stored on a storage medium in the server . Thus the software can be run from the storage medium in the server . In another example software implementing the systems and methods described herein can be stored on a storage medium in the computer . Thus the software can be run from the storage medium in the computer system . Therefore in this example the software can be used whether or not computer is connected to network router . Printer may be connected directly to computer in which case the computer system can print whether or not it is connected to network router .

Referring now to an example of a special purpose computer system is shown. For example one or more intelligent components the processing engine and components thereof may be a special purpose computer system . The above methods may be implemented by computer program products that direct a computer system to perform the actions of the above described methods and components. Each such computer program product may comprise sets of instructions codes embodied on a computer readable medium that directs the processor of a computer system to perform corresponding actions. The instructions may be configured to run in sequential order or in parallel such as under different processing threads or in a combination thereof. After loading the computer program products on a general purpose computer system it is transformed into the special purpose computer system .

Special purpose computer system comprises a computer a monitor coupled to computer one or more additional user output devices optional coupled to computer one or more user input devices e.g. keyboard mouse track ball touch screen coupled to computer an optional communications interface coupled to computer a computer program product stored in a tangible computer readable memory in computer . Computer program product directs the special purpose computer system to perform the above described methods. Computer may include one or more processors that communicate with a number of peripheral devices via a bus subsystem . These peripheral devices may include user output device s user input device s communications interface and a storage subsystem such as random access memory RAM and non volatile storage drive e.g. disk drive optical drive solid state drive which are forms of tangible computer readable memory.

Computer program product may be stored in non volatile storage drive or another computer readable medium accessible to computer and loaded into memory . Each processor may comprise a microprocessor such as a microprocessor from Intel or Advanced Micro Devices Inc. or the like. To support the computer program product the computer runs an operating system that handles the communications of the computer program product with the above noted components as well as the communications between the above noted components in support of the computer program product . Exemplary operating systems include Windows or the like from Microsoft Corporation Solaris from Sun Microsystems LINUX UNIX and the like.

User input devices include all possible types of devices and mechanisms to input information to computer . These may include a keyboard a keypad a mouse a scanner a digital drawing pad a touch screen incorporated into the display audio input devices such as voice recognition systems microphones and other types of input devices. In various examples user input devices are typically embodied as a computer mouse a trackball a track pad a joystick wireless remote a drawing tablet a voice command system. User input devices typically allow a user to select objects icons text and the like that appear on the monitor via a command such as a click of a button or the like. User output devices include all possible types of devices and mechanisms to output information from computer . These may include a display e.g. monitor printers non visual displays such as audio output devices etc.

Communications interface provides an interface to other communication networks and devices and may serve as an interface to receive data from and transmit data to other systems WANs and or the Internet . Examples of communications interface typically include an Ethernet card a modem telephone satellite cable ISDN a asynchronous digital subscriber line DSL unit a FireWire interface a USB interface a wireless network adapter and the like. For example communications interface may be coupled to a computer network to a FireWire bus or the like. In other examples communications interface may be physically integrated on the motherboard of computer and or may be a software program or the like.

RAM and non volatile storage drive are examples of tangible computer readable media configured to store data such as computer program product examples of the present invention including executable computer code human readable code or the like. Other types of tangible computer readable media include floppy disks removable hard disks optical storage media such as CD ROMs DVDs bar codes semiconductor memories such as flash memories read only memories ROMs battery backed volatile memories networked storage devices and the like. RAM and non volatile storage drive may be configured to store the basic programming and data constructs that provide the functionality of various examples of the present invention as described above.

Software instruction sets that provide the functionality of the present disclosure may be stored in RAM and non volatile storage drive . These instruction sets or code may be executed by the processor s . RAM and non volatile storage drive may also provide a repository to store data and data structures used in accordance with the present invention. RAM and non volatile storage drive may include a number of memories including a main random access memory RAM to store instructions and data during program execution and a read only memory ROM in which fixed instructions are stored. RAM and non volatile storage drive may include a file storage subsystem providing persistent non volatile storage of program and or data files. RAM and non volatile storage drive may also include removable storage systems such as removable flash memory.

Bus subsystem provides a mechanism to allow the various components and subsystems of computer to communicate with each other as intended. Although bus subsystem is shown schematically as a single bus alternative examples of the bus subsystem may utilize multiple busses or communication paths within the computer .

For a firmware and or software implementation the methodologies may be implemented with modules e.g. procedures functions and so on that perform the functions described herein. Any machine readable medium tangibly embodying instructions may be used in implementing the methodologies described herein. For example software codes may be stored in a memory. Memory may be implemented within the processor or external to the processor. As used herein the term memory refers to any type of long term short term volatile nonvolatile or other storage medium and is not to be limited to any particular type of memory or number of memories or type of media upon which memory is stored.

Moreover as disclosed herein the term storage medium equivalently nontransitory storage medium may represent one or more persistent memories for storing data including read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic RAM core memory magnetic disk storage mediums optical storage mediums flash memory devices and or other machine readable mediums for storing information. The term machine readable medium includes but is not limited to portable or fixed storage devices optical storage devices wireless channels and or various other storage mediums capable of storing that contain or carry instruction s and or data.

Various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Indeed various user interfaces for operating hazard detectors HVACSs and other devices have been provided yet the designs are meant to be illustrative and not limiting as to the scope of the overall invention. While methods and systems have been described for receiving hazard detection and hazard detector status information it is contemplated that these methods may be applied to receive and or communicate other information. It is to be further appreciated that the term hazard detector as used throughout can include hazard detectors having direct wired connection with hazard response systems and can further include hazard detectors that do not connect directly with the hazard response systems but that provide alerts concerning detected potential hazard conditions.

The methods systems and devices discussed above are examples. Various configurations may omit substitute or add various method steps or procedures or system components as appropriate. For instance in alternative configurations the methods may be performed in an order different from that described and or various stages may be added omitted and or combined. Also features described with respect to certain configurations may be combined in various other configurations. Different aspects and elements of the configurations may be combined in a similar manner. Also technology evolves and thus many of the elements are examples and do not limit the scope of the disclosure or claims.

Specific details are given in the description to provide a thorough understanding of example configurations including implementations . However configurations may be practiced without these specific details. For example well known circuits processes algorithms structures and techniques have been shown without unnecessary detail in order to avoid obscuring the configurations. This description provides example configurations only and does not limit the scope applicability or configurations of the claims. Rather the preceding description of the configurations will provide those of skill with an enabling description for implementing described techniques. Various changes may be made in the function and arrangement of elements without departing from the spirit or scope of the disclosure.

Also configurations may be described as a process which is depicted as a flow diagram or block diagram. Although each may describe the operations as a sequential process many of the operations may be performed in parallel or concurrently. In addition the order of the operations may be rearranged. A process may have additional steps not included in the figure. Furthermore examples of the methods may be implemented by hardware software firmware middleware microcode hardware description languages or any combination thereof. When implemented in software firmware middleware or microcode the program code or code segments to perform the necessary tasks may be stored in a non transitory computer readable medium such as a storage medium. Processors may perform the described tasks.

Furthermore the example aspects or features described herein may be implemented as logical operations in a computing device in a networked computing system environment. The logical operations may be implemented as i a sequence of computer implemented instructions steps or program modules running on a computing device and ii interconnected logic or hardware modules running within a computing device.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

