---

title: Machine learning for determination of shipping rules and shipping methods for order fulfillment
abstract: Systems, methods, and devices for determining shipping rules and shipping methods for an order are disclosed herein. A computer implemented method includes receiving an electronic record of an order placed with a merchant. The method further includes determining a smallest available package size in which the order content can be shipped and one or more additional available package sizes having dimensions larger than the smallest available package size in which the order content can be shipped. The method also includes determining a shipping price to ship the order content and presenting a plurality of shipping methods to a user with the shipping price.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09619775&OS=09619775&RS=09619775
owner: 
number: 09619775
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20151125
---
The disclosure relates generally to methods systems and apparatuses for order fulfillment and more particularly relates to intelligent automated package and shipping method selection for orders.

Online catalog and even brick and mortar retailers or merchants often fulfill customer orders by shipping products to the customer. Shipping volumes and innovations have led to increased competition reduced shipping costs and a wide range of options to customers and merchants for shipping products.

With the wide array of shipping options it is important that merchants and or customers are able to quickly and efficiently choose package and shipping options that best match their desires. Thus retailers or shippers may need to determine how to best ship products within an order. For example when an order is received an employee may take a plurality of ordered items and try to fit them into a few different box or envelope sizes. Furthermore the employee may need to determine which shipping methods or which of the available packages to use to ship the order. However Applicant has recognized that significant cost and time is currently wasted on determining which available packaging an order can fit in and selecting shipping methods. This process can be exacerbated because one merchant may have shipping packages that they stock and which another merchant does not stock. Additionally errors are often made where more expensive packaging or shipping methods are used than could have been used.

For the foregoing and other reasons Applicants have developed systems devices and methods for order fulfillment that improve packaging and shipping method selection based on previous orders. In one embodiment methods devices and systems may benefit any shipper such as an online retailer or other order fulfillment service provider. For example merchants who fulfill orders using available shipping methods from available carriers such as USPS FedEx UPS or the like or ship small to medium size items may benefit from automated package and method selection. For example machine learning or package and method selection based on previous orders may enable a retailer to significantly reduce costs and time to ship an order as well as to reduce costs paid for shipping services by a carrier. Machine learning may include analysis of or referring back to one or more previously shipped orders to make predictions or selections for future orders.

In one embodiment a computer implemented method includes receiving an electronic record of an order placed with a merchant wherein the electronic record indicates an order content comprising a plurality of items for the order. The method also includes determining a smallest available package size in which the order content can be shipped and automatically determining based on the smallest available package size one or more additional available package sizes having dimensions larger than the smallest available package size in which the order content can be shipped. The method includes calculating for each of the smallest available package size and the one or more additional available package sizes a shipping price to ship the order content. The method includes presenting a plurality of shipping methods for shipping for each of the plurality of available package sizes having shipping rules wherein each of the plurality of shipping methods comprises a package identifier and a shipping price.

Referring now to the figures illustrates an example system for receiving and processing orders. The system includes a fulfillment system that includes a shipping component a customer computer a customer service computer a shipping warehouse computer a label printer and data storage . The different components may communicate directly with each other or via a network such as a local area network a wide area network and or the Internet. The components are given by way of example only. Furthermore interconnections between and locations of the components are illustrative only. For example the shipping component may be located separately from the shipping component or may be part of another component or any of the other components of the system .

The fulfillment system is configured to receive and process one or more orders from customers. For example the order information may be received from a customer computer or a customer service computer . The storage may include information about available products their prices and other details. The storage may also be used to store order information customer information or other information for usage by the fulfillment system . The fulfillment system includes a shipping component configured to determine one or more shipping details for an order. For example the shipping component may determine packaging shipping methods or the like based on an order and will be discussed in further detail below. The shipping component may provide an interface to shipping employees on a shipping warehouse computer . The shipping details may be provided to the shipping warehouse computer and or to a label printer for printing of a label to initiate packaging and shipping of a customer s order.

The fulfillment system may include one or more servers located remotely from a customer computer or other components of the system . For example the customer computer may include a computing device such as a desktop laptop tablet or mobile computing devices which access a web page provided by the fulfillment system in order to browse available products and or place orders for products. The fulfillment system may also receive orders from a customer service computer . For example the customer computer may be operated by a merchant or employee of a merchant. The customer service computer may be used to enter order and payment details received by a customer service representative from a customer via phone email or in any other manner. The order details including any payment details may be provided from the customer computer or the customer service computer to the fulfillment system for processing.

The fulfillment system may include a product inventory system that determines whether one or more products are available for ordering shipping or purchasing. For example while a customer browses a website provided by the fulfillment system or an employee takes an order from a customer the fulfillment system may provide information about whether specific products are available and or when the products will be available. For example a potential customer browsing a merchant s website may be able to search and view products available for purchase from the merchant. The fulfillment system may pull data from the storage to populate the website to indicate availability of products.

The fulfillment system may include a payment component or payment processing system that process an order price and customer payment details to process payment for an order. For example the payment component or system may process an electronic transfer electronic check payment card details or any other payment information to initiate payment from a customer to a merchant. The payment component or system may validate that the payment details are valid or that payment for the order has been received.

The order component is configured to receive an electronic record of an order placed with a merchant. For example the electronic record may include an indication of an order placed by a customer using a customer device via a network or an order entered by a customer service representative on behalf of the user. The electronic record may indicate include information about a customer and and or one or more products ordered by the customer. For example the electronic record may include a customer name mailing address phone number email address or any other identifying or contact information. The electronic record may also include customer payment information such as a payment card number account number or other financial account identifier or payment information.

The electronic record also may include an indication of order content. For example the indication of order content may include identifiers for a plurality of items ordered by the customer. The order content may include one or more product names inventory identifiers e.g. stockkeeping unit SKU number for one or more different products and a quantity for the products. The order component may determine one or more products and a quantity for each of the one or more products that are included in the order content.

The product profiles component is configured to store shipping profiles for a plurality of products available for shipping by the merchant. For example each product available in inventory or each product which is sold by a merchant may have a corresponding shipping profile that includes a physical description of the product as it will be shipped. In on embodiment the shipping profiles include dimensions and weight for each of the plurality of products available for shipping by the merchant. The dimensions may include a length a width and a height. In one embodiment the dimensions may include greater detail for products that do not have cuboid or rectangular prism shape. In one embodiment the shipping profiles also include a weight of the product. In one embodiment the shipping profiles may include dimensions weight or other details provided by a party that manufactures or supplies the product to the merchant. In one embodiment the shipping profiles may be entered by the merchant or an employee of the merchant. The shipping profiles may be stored for later access by a fulfillment system or shipping component such as within the storage of .

The drop ship component is configured to identify one or more products within the order content of an order that should be drop shipped. Drop shipping generally refers to a practice where an order is placed with a specific merchant but a different party such as an original manufacturer or supplier actually ships the order to a customer. For example even though the order is placed with a specific merchant the merchant may not ship the product and instead allow a different party with to ship the product. This may allow a merchant to receive income for selling products on behalf of another supplier without actually having inventory of the product.

In one embodiment the drop ship component identifies one or more products in an order that correspond to a brand or product marked for drop shipping. For example a list of drop shipped products by product identifier brand identifier or other category may be stored by the storage of . The list may be accessed by the drop ship component to determine whether any items within the order content are in the list of drop shipping items. If an item is in the list of drop shipped products the drop ship component may eliminate one or more products from the order content as far as the previous order component package size component shipping rules component and shipping price component are concerned. For example the components may operate as if the order does not include the drop shipped products because they may not actually be included in a package shipped by the merchant.

The previous order component is configured to identify one or more previous orders that match the current order. For example a previous order may match a current order by having the same order content or similar order content. In one embodiment the previous order component may determine whether a previous order matches a current order based on one or more drop shipped items being excluded from the current order or the previous order. In one embodiment a previous order may have the same order content if the contents of the order exactly match the contents of the previous order. For example the order contents of both orders may include the exact same products and the exact same quantity for each product. In one embodiment the previous order component may determine that the order and a previous order have the same order content based on matching product identifiers and quantities. For example the order contents for both orders may include the same SKUs and quantities corresponding to the SKUs. The previous order and new order may have a same one or more products and a same quantity for the one or more products.

In one embodiment the previous order component may compare the order content of a recently received order with one or more records of previous orders stored within an order log. For example the previous order component may compare the order content of a current order to order contents of boxes or packages previously shipped by the merchant. The log may include a record of each box or package shipped that has a specific order content. The record of the previously shipped box or package may include an indication of one or more products included in the package the packaging type or size used to ship the order content a quantity for the one or more products a weight for each of the one or more products dimensions for each of the one or more products and or a final shipping weight for the package including the products package box or envelope a smallest box or package in which the order content fit and or any packing material. In one embodiment if a previous order exactly matches a current order one or more or all of the details from the record e.g. final shipping weight package or box dimensions and or the like of the previously shipped box or package may be used for shipping the current order. By comparing the order content of the current order to the order content of previously shipped boxes or orders employee effort and or computation by the fulfillment system may be significantly reduced. For example if the order content of a current order matches the previous order content the information about the previous order content may be used for the current order to reduce the need to recalculate or re determine how to ship the order content of the current order. Furthermore reduction in employee errors where products are shipped using other than a lowest cost shipping option including packaging and or shipping rates.

In one embodiment the previous order component may locate an order that does not have the same order content but instead has a similar order content. In one embodiment orders may have similar order content when they have a same quantity of products and the products have the same or similar shipping profiles. For example one or more products of the previous order or previously shipped package may not exactly match the current order but may instead have same or similar dimensions. For example each of a length width and height of the different products may be identical or within a threshold percentage or unit length. As another example a longest dimension middle dimension and shortest dimension may be required to match exactly between different products in order for the previous order component to determine that the order content is similar. In one embodiment the weight of different products being different may not keep the previous order component from determining that an order content is similar.

In one embodiment the previous order component may compare dimensions of a shipping profile for each product in a current order with dimensions of products in previous orders or previous packages. For example the previous order component may search for matching product dimensions exactly matching or at least within a threshold value rather than matching products. In this way the previous order component may identify previous orders that although not identical may still provide specific information about how the current order can or should be shipped.

In one embodiment when the previous order component locates a previous order with similar order content in a log of previous orders the previous order component may pull information about packaging size packaging type final shipping weight or the like. In one embodiment the previous order component may also pull specific weights of one or more products included in a similar or matching previous order. For example the weights of the specific products may be used to calculate a weight for the current order. In one embodiment a weight for the current order may be calculated by subtracting a weight for a first product in a previous order from a final shipping weight of the previous order and adding the weight of a different second product that is in the current order that has the same or similar dimensions as the first product.

In one embodiment the previous order component may determine that there is no previous order that has the same order content or a similar order content to the order content of a current order. In one embodiment the previous order component may notify the log component to add information about the current order to the log of previously shipped orders. For example after the current order has been packaged weighed and shipped the log component may store information about the current order to the log. Thus any future orders that have the same or similar order content as the current order may then be processed with less computing or employee resources.

The package size component is configured to determine a smallest package size that can be used to ship the order content of the current order. In one embodiment the package size component may determine the smallest package size based on a reduced number of order contents due to elimination of one or more products by the drop ship component .

In one embodiment the package size component is configured to determine the smallest available package size that can be used to ship the order contents based on information provided by a user. For example a user may provide in an interface an indication of a smallest available box or package size that can be used to ship the order contents. The user interface may present a plurality of different package options and the user may be able to select a box in which the contents will fit. For example the user may gather the order contents and try one or more boxes to determine which of the available boxes is large enough to accommodate all of the order contents except for example any drop shipping products .

In one embodiment the package size component is configured to determine the smallest package size based on a previous order that had the same or similar order content as a current order. For example if the previous order component identified a previous order from a log that has the same or similar order content the package size component may pull information from the log to determine the smallest available box size that the order content of the current order will fit in. In one embodiment the records of previously shipped orders in the log indicate a smallest package size in which the contents will fit. For example the record of a previously shipped order may include information about a package that was actually used to ship the order and or information about a smallest package size that would accommodate the order contents. In one embodiment the record of a previously shipped order may include a list of all available package sizes that would accommodate the order content.

In one embodiment the package size component is configured to determine one or more additional package sizes in which the order content of the current order will fit. The package size component may identify which available package sizes can accommodate the order from a list of package sizes available to a merchant. For example the merchant may keep one or more box envelope or other package sizes in stock to use for shipping products. By using the available box sizes the merchant may be able to save costs associate with stocking a large number of different boxes or creating custom sized boxes for orders. In one embodiment the available box or package sizes may include one or more regional rate boxes or envelopes one or more flat rate boxes or envelopes or the like. For example some carriers offer flat rate or regional rate boxes that can in some situations provide better rates than even smaller packages sizes.

In one embodiment the package size component may identify one or more additional package sizes in which the contents will fit based on the smallest available package size in which the content will fit. For example the package size component may identify the additional package sizes based on the smallest available package size indicated by a user or determine from a previous order with a same or similar order content. In one embodiment all boxes that are larger in one or more dimensions than the smallest available package size may be selected. For example if all dimensions of a specific box are the same or greater than dimensions of the smallest available box size the package size component may identify that specific box size as one in which the order content can be shipped.

In one embodiment the package size component identifies the one or more additional packages sizes based on a previously shipped order. For example if the previous order component identified a previous order that had the same or similar order content as a current order the package size component may pull information about one or more available box sizes that the previous order would fit in. The package size component may determine that if the previous order with the same order content could fit in the one or more additional available box sizes then the current order may also fit within those additional available box sizes.

The shipping rules component is configured to determine one or more shipping rules to ship order content of an order. The shipping rules component may determine the shipping rules based on order content that eliminates any drop shipped items ordered by a customer. In one embodiment the shipping rules component may determine shipping rules including one or more of package dimensions shipping weight or the like. In one embodiment the shipping rules component may retrieve the package size and any additional package sizes from the package size component for inclusion in the order rules. In one embodiment the shipping rules component is configured to determine shipping rules comprising packaging dimensions and a final shipping weight for each of the smallest available package size and the one or more additional available package sizes.

In one embodiment the shipping rules component determines the shipping rules based on information provided by a user into an interface. For example a user may provide box dimensions or weight into the example interface of . The shipping rules component may use the input as the shipping rules or use the input to calculate shipping rules.

In one embodiment the shipping rules component is configured to automatically determine one or more or all shipping rules without user input. For example the shipping rules component may determine the shipping rules based on information in a record of a previously shipped order stored in a log and or identified by the previous order component . In one embodiment the shipping rules component is configured to determine dimensions for one or more package sizes based on the previous order. For example if the previous order used a box with specific dimensions the shipping rules component may use the box with the specific dimensions for the shipping rules. Similarly the shipping rules component may also pull information regarding a smallest available box size and or one additional available box sizes from the previous order.

In one embodiment the shipping rules component may automatically determine a weight or a final shipping weight for one or more different box sizes. For example the shipping rules component may determine the weight based on a previous order having a same or similar order content. For example using the weight of the previous order the shipping rules component may calculate a weight for the current order. In one embodiment for the same order content in the same packaging as the previous order the shipping rules component may determine that the current order will have the same final shipping weight as the previous order. In one embodiment for different order content in the same packaging the shipping rules component may determine that the current order will have a different final shipping weight. For example the previous order may include a first product that has a first weight and the dimensions of the first product may be the same or similar to a second product in the current order that has a different second weight. The shipping rules component may calculate a final shipping weight for the current order by subtracting a weight of the first product from the finals shipping weight of the previous order and adding the weight of the second product.

In one embodiment the shipping rules component may determine rules for a plurality of different box sizes for the same order. Determining shipping rules for a plurality of different box sizes may allow estimation of costs for a plurality of different shipping methods. In one embodiment the shipping rules component may determine a final shipping weight for each available box size for the order content. For example the shipping rules component may substitute weights of different box sizes to calculate final shipping weights for orders that use a different box size than an actual box size used to ship a previous order.

The shipping price component is configured to determine a shipping price for one or more packaging options for order content of an order. In one embodiment the shipping price component is configured to determine the shipping price based on one or more drop shipped products being eliminated from the order content. In one embodiment the shipping price component is configured to determine the shipping price based on the shipping rules determined by the shipping rules component . For example the shipping price component may calculate a shipping price for one or more of the package sizes in which order content will fit. In one embodiment the shipping price component may calculate a shipping price for each of the smallest available package size and the one or more additional available package sizes. For example the shipping price component may receive shipping rules including dimensions and weight for each of the different packages and determine a price to ship the order content in that packaging. In one embodiment calculating a shipping price may include calculating based on a weight for a previous order and based on a difference in weight between one or more products of the order and one or more products of the previous order.

In one embodiment the shipping price component may determine a shipping price based on different shipping methods. For example different shipping methods may be with different carriers with different shipping speeds different packaging or the like. In one embodiment the shipping price component may determine a price for a specific carrier by submitting shipping rules to an application program interface API of the carrier and receive a shipping price back via the API. In one embodiment the shipping price component may determine a shipping price for a plurality of shipping methods available for the order content.

The shipping price component may also identify a lowest cost shipping method and or packaging based on the calculated shipping prices. The lowest cost shipping method may use a package that uses a packaging having a larger size than a smallest available package. For example flat rate or regional rate packaging and shipping methods may be cheaper than other shipping methods that use smaller packages. In one embodiment the shipping price component may select a lowest cost shipping method for shipping the order content even if it has larger dimensions that the smallest available box size that will fit the order content. In one embodiment the shipping price component may select a lowest cost shipping method and provide that information to an automated packaging system. For example an automated packaging system may automate one or more of product retrieval package retrieval product loading within a package taping and or attaching of a label. In one embodiment the automated packaging system may receive the order and or shipping details and automatically perform one or more aspects of packaging including using a box label and or shipping method indicated by other components of the shipping component or fulfillment system . The automated packaging system may include one or more actuators conveyor belts taping mechanisms and or label printers to automate at least some portions of a package assembly and shipping process.

The interface component is configured to provide user interfaces for a user. For example the interfaces may be presented to a user at a shipping location such as on a shipping warehouse computer in . The interface component may provide an interface for communicating with a user. For example the interface component may provide a visual interface for displaying information and receiving input from a user. The interface component may provide an interface that can receive keyboard mouse touch screen voice or any other type of input from a user. Example interfaces which may be provided by the interface component are illustrated in which are discussed further below.

In one embodiment no interface for shipping an order may be displayed because the shipping component may automatically identify previous orders with the same order content determine shipping rules calculate prices determine an optimal packaging and shipping methods and print a label without user input or approval. In another embodiment the same interfaces may be used to obtain approval even when a previous order with the same order content has been identified. For example a user may be allowed to confirm or modify shipping rules or shipping methods to oversee the label creation and shipping process.

The label component is configured to print a label for shipping an order. In one embodiment the label component may pull information from an electronic order or other components to generate an electronic shipping label for an order. In one embodiment the label component may automatically populate fields of an electronic label based on a user selected or system selected shipping method and print a label for the order. The label component may send the electronic shipping label to a printer. In one embodiment the shipping label may be printed with a box or package identifier. A shipping employee may then take the shipping label and retrieve the correct packaging and products to prepare for shipping.

The log component is configured to log an order to a previous order log. For example if the previous order component determines that a current order does not have a same or similar order content as any other previous order in the previous order log the log component may log one or more details about the order and one or more shipping rules to the order log. For example the log component may log one or more of the order content of the order dimensions for products within the order content the smallest available package size for the order content the one or more additional available package sizes and a final shipping weight for at least one of the plurality of available package sizes.

Turning to example operation of the system of is illustrated. Specifically illustrate example interfaces which may be provided to a user for shipping products in response to an order. The interfaces will be discussed in relation to shipping an order by a merchant or employee of a merchant.

In one embodiment if the dimensions and the quantities or products in the shipping profiles of a current order and previous order match exactly all of the shipping rules except for the box weight information will be entered automatically based on existing shipping rules. For example if two different products have the same dimensions they may be interchanged except for weight in an existing shipping rule. For example the same shipping rule except for weight may be used since the products have the same dimensions as in the existing shipping rule.

Following is a description of the parts of the shipping rules interface . The order content section describes the content of an order. In one embodiment shipping rules are set according to the quantity and shipping profiles for the order content. The box dimensions section include the box dimensions for a box for the smallest box size that a merchant carries that the order content will ship in. For example a user may manually enter these dimensions or they may be autopopulated based on a previous order that has the same or similar order content. In the box dimensions section is a Ship as is checkbox. For example if the item can be shipped in its original product box as provided to the merchant by a supplier a user may enter the dimensions for the product box and select Ship as is. The box weight section includes a final shipping weight for the box including the products and any filler and or marketing items such as packing peanuts packing air bags brochures etc. that are included in that order content. The priority mail section includes a listing of priority mail boxes. In the embodiment of USPS Priority Mail flat rate envelopes and boxes and regional boxes are listed. A user or a system may select all options that the order content can fit into. If any of the sizes also exist in the priority mail express section they will be checked automatically.

The priority mail express section includes a listing of USPS Priority Mail Express flat rate envelopes and boxes. In one embodiment none of the boxes in this section are checkable as all of these sizes also are listed in the priority mail section. For example when the matching size is checked in the priority mail section the same size option will be automatically checked in the priority mail express section. Above the priority mail section is a Check all Flat Rate Regional Rate Box checkbox. Checking the Check all Flat Rate Regional Rate Box checkbox this option will cause the shipping rules interface or the package size component to automatically select all boxes that are the same size or larger than the selected box dimensions. In one embodiment the option to automatically check larger boxes or packages does not apply to envelopes and the user may still need to manually select any applicable envelope options. A user may also allow a user to check for other box sizes that the order content will fit into because the dimensions in the box dimensions section are for the smallest box that is available rather than the actual dimensions for the order content.

The box quantity section lists a quantity for a number of boxes to be shipped. For example if order content will not fit into a single box the order content may be split between multiple boxes. In one embodiment a value of two or more for the box quantity will cause the flat rate regional box options to disappear. For example if an order requires shipping in two or more boxes it is a larger order and the benefits of using flat rate regional shipping may not apply. An Add a Box button is listed below the box quantity section. Selection of the Add a Box button may cause the addition of another box with additional sections. The additional box may allow a user to choose a second set of dimensions and a weight for another different sized box. This option may not show the flat rate regional box options.

It should also be noted that if there is a previous order having a same or similar order content a message may be displayed that indicates that that the rules have been prepopulated based on the existing shipping rules with an exception of box weight. In one embodiment if the dimensions and the quantities in the shipping profiles match exactly e.g. matching dimensions but not matching products or weights all of the shipping rules except for the box weight information will be populated automatically based on existing shipping rules. In this case a user may only have to enter the box weight information.

In one embodiment default settings may be configured to reduce shipping costs. As an example if the least expensive shipping option is a non flat USPS Priority Mail box or FedEx UPS Ground and the second least expensive option is a USPS Priority Mail Flat Rate Envelope Box and the difference in cost is a threshold amount or less e.g. 2.00 or less the system may default to selecting the USPS Priority Mail Flat Rate Envelope Box as the default shipping method on the label creation page. This example may be used for example in the case that all USPS supplies are free while purchasing cardboard boxes can cost anywhere from 0.40 to 2.00 per box.

In one embodiment a merchant or merchant employee may choose a shipping method from a drop down menu. The shipping options in the drop down menu may be sorted by price with the least expensive at the top and the most expensive at the bottom or according to some other order. For example the system may retrieve prices for one or more shippers through respective APIs e.g. a USPS price may be retrieved via a USPS API that provides exact prices for the order based on one or more shipping rules and a customer code or the like provided by a user s computer . When sending weight information to a shipper via an API e.g. to receive a shipping price the system may round up the ounce oz to the nearest pound lb if it is a threshold number of ounces or higher and round down to the nearest pound otherwise. This may be useful for example in cases that a shipper does not accept ounces or decimal points for box weight.

The systems and methods disclosed herein may greatly increase savings for shipping for example by identifying cost saving usages of flat rate and regional rate options. Merchants may be able to gain greater costs savings by clearly identifying a lowest cost shipping price as well as by reducing employee time or computer processing time in preparation of orders for shipping. For example because certain embodiments are able to identify and compare a plurality of different shipping options that are specific to the order content a lowest cost option can easily be determined. Merchants may obtain further benefit because some embodiments allow a user to set specific shipping rules per order content in regards to flat rate and regional rate options from one or more carriers while most other shipping label systems automatically generate shipping options based on the order content for only one carrier or shipping method. Merchants may also benefit from some embodiments because a plurality of different package sizes are identified and compared. Merchants may further benefit because some embodiments only prompt a user for shipping rules if that specific order content is being shipped for the first time. For future orders that have the exact same order content or even similar order content a user may not have to set shipping rules again but instead will be able to skip directly to a label creation page. As time goes on and more orders are shipped shipping employees may need to set shipping rules on a less frequent basis. In one embodiment a system will be able to identify when a shipping profiles dimensions and the quantities match existing shipping rules. This can allow pre population of matching shipping rules saving the merchant time and processing time for computing systems.

Referring now to a schematic flow chart diagram of a method for determining shipping rules or a shipping method for an order according to one embodiment is illustrated. The method may be performed by an order fulfillment system or shipping component such as the order fulfillment system of or the shipping component of .

The method begins and an order component receives an electronic record of an order placed with a merchant. The electronic record may include an order content comprising a plurality of items for the order. A previous order component identifies based on a log of shipped orders a previous order shipped by the merchant that includes similar order content to the order content of the order. A package size component determines based on the previous order a smallest package size in which the order can ship and a plurality of available package sizes for the merchant in addition to the smallest package size that can accommodate the order. A shipping rules component automatically determines shipping rules that include packaging dimensions and a final shipping weight for one or more of the smallest available package size and the one or more additional available package sizes. A shipping price component calculates for one or more of the smallest available package size and the one or more additional available package sizes a shipping price to ship the order content based on the shipping rules. An interface component presents a plurality of shipping methods to a user on a shipping method page for shipping the order. For example the shipping methods may include shipping methods for a plurality of different box sizes different carriers and the like.

The method begins and an order component receives an electronic record of an order placed with a merchant. The electronic record may include an order content comprising a plurality of items for the order. A package size component determines based on the previous order a smallest package size in which the order can ship. The package size component also determines a plurality of available package sizes for the merchant in addition to the smallest package size that can accommodate the order. A shipping price component determines for one or more of the smallest available package size and the one or more additional available package sizes a shipping price to ship the order content based on the shipping rules. An interface component presents a plurality of shipping methods to a user on a shipping method page for shipping the order. For example the shipping methods may include shipping methods for a plurality of different box sizes different carriers and the like with associated shipping costs and or packaging sizes.

Example 1 is a computer implemented method that includes receiving an electronic record of an order placed with a merchant wherein the electronic record indicates an order content comprising a plurality of items for the order. The method includes determining a smallest available package size in which the order content can be shipped. The method also includes automatically determining based on the smallest available package size in which the order content can be shipped one or more additional available package sizes having dimensions larger than the smallest available package size in which the order content can be shipped. The method includes calculating for each of the smallest available package size and the one or more additional available package sizes a shipping price to ship the order content. The method includes presenting a plurality of shipping methods for shipping for each of the plurality of available package sizes having shipping rules wherein each of the plurality of shipping methods comprises a package identifier and a shipping price.

In Example 2 the method of Example 1 further includes identifying a lowest cost package from the plurality of available package sizes wherein the lowest cost package comprises larger dimensions than the smallest available package size and wherein presenting the plurality of shipping methods comprises providing a shipping method utilizing the lowest cost package as a default selection.

In Example 3 one or more of the one or more additional available package sizes in any of Examples 1 2 includes one or more of a size of a flat rate package for flat rate shipping or a size of a regional rate package for regional rate shipping.

In Example 4 the method of any of Examples 1 3 further include identifying from a log of shipped orders a previous order shipped by the merchant including a same order content as the order content of the order. The same order content may include a same one or more products and a same quantity for the one or more products as the order content of the order and one or more of determining the smallest available package size and determining one or more additional available package sizes comprises determining based on the previous order.

In Example 5 the method of Example 4 includes determining a weight for the previous order and wherein calculating a shipping price includes calculating based on the weight for the previous order.

In Example 6 the method of any of Examples 1 5 further include identifying from a log of shipped orders a previous order shipped by the merchant comprising a similar order content as the order content of the order. The similar order content includes a same quantity of products and the same quantity of products include a similar shipping profile. Furthermore one or more of determining the smallest available package size and determining one or more additional available package sizes includes determining based on the previous order.

In Example 7 the similar shipping profile of Example 6 includes a plurality of matching dimensions with the products of the order content.

In Example 8 the similar shipping profile of Example 6 includes a dimensions within a threshold size of dimensions of the products of the order content.

In Example 9 the method of any of Examples 6 8 further include determining a weight for the previous order and calculating a shipping price includes calculating based on the weight for the previous order and a difference in weight between one or more products of the order and one or more products of the previous order.

In Example 10 the method of any of Examples 1 9 further include logging to a previous order log one or more of the order content of the order dimensions for products within the order content the smallest available package size the one or more additional available package sizes and a final shipping weight for at least one of the plurality of available package sizes.

In Example 11 the method of any of Examples 1 10 further include identifying one or more products in the order that correspond to a brand or product marked for drop shipping and eliminating one or more products from the order content for one or more of determining the smallest available package size determining the one or more additional available package sizes calculating the shipping price and presenting the plurality of options for shipping.

Example 12 is a machine learning system that includes an order component a previous order component a package size component a shipping rules component and a shipping price component. The order component is configured to receive an electronic record of an order placed with a merchant wherein the electronic record includes an order content comprising a plurality of items for the order. The previous order component is configured to identify based on a log of shipped orders a previous order shipped by the merchant including a similar order content to the order content of the order. The package size component is configured to automatically determine based on the previous order a smallest package size in which the order can ship and a plurality of available package sizes for the merchant in addition to the smallest package size that can accommodate the order. The shipping rules component is configured to automatically determine shipping rules including packaging dimensions and a final shipping weight for each of the smallest available package size and the one or more additional available package sizes. The shipping price component is configured to calculate for each of the smallest available package size and the one or more additional available package sizes a shipping price to ship the order content based on the shipping rules. The interface component is configured to present a plurality of shipping methods on a shipping method page for shipping each of the plurality of available package sizes each of the plurality of shipping methods comprising a package identifier and the shipping price.

In Example 13 the previous order component of Example 12 is configured to identify the previous order based on the order content of the order include a same one or more products and a same quantity for the one or more products as the previous order. The shipping rules component is configured to determine the final shipping weight for at least one of the smallest available package size and the one or more additional available package sizes including a same final shipping weight as the previous order.

In Example 14 the previous order component of any of Examples 12 13 is configured to identify the previous order based on the order content of the order comprising a different one or more products and a same quantity of products as the previous order. The different one or more products have dimensions within a threshold size or percentage of corresponding products in the previous order. The shipping rules component is configured to determine the final shipping weight for at least one of the smallest available package size and the one or more additional available package sizes by substituting a weight for product of the previous order with a weight of a product of the order.

In Example 15 the system of any of Examples 12 14 includes a product profiles component configured to store shipping profiles for a plurality of products available for shipping by the merchant. The shipping profiles include dimensions and weight for each of the plurality of products available for shipping by the merchant.

In Example 16 the order in any of Examples 12 1 includes a first order and wherein the order component is further configured to receive an electronic record of a second order placed with the merchant. The previous order component is configured to determine that there is not a previous order having a similar order content to the second order based on an order log. The interface component displays a shipping rules page for the second order the shipping rules page providing an interface for a user to input shipping rules comprising one or more of one or more packaging sizes and a final shipping weight. For the first order the system skips the shipping rules page and automatically generates the shipping rules based on the previous order.

In Example 17 the interface component of Example 16 is configured to receive a selection of a smallest package size for the second order from a user. The package size component is configured to automatically determine based on the smallest package size for the second order one or more available package sizes for the second order in addition to the smallest package size for the second order. The interface component is configured to automatically update the shipping rules page to indicate that the one or more available package sizes for second order can accommodate the second order.

In Example 18 the shipping price component in any of Examples 12 17 is configured to identify a shipping method having a lowest shipping price. In one embodiment the shipping method with the lowest shipping price includes larger dimensions than the smallest available package size and presenting the plurality of shipping methods comprises providing the lowest shipping price as a default selection.

In Example 19 one or more of the one or more additional available package sizes in any of Examples 12 18 includes one or more of a size of a flat rate package or a size of a regional rate package.

In Example 20 the system of any of Examples 12 19 further includes a label component configured to automatically populate fields of an electronic label based on a selected shipping method and print a label for the order.

In Examples 21 the shipping rules component of any of Examples 12 20 is further configured to identify one or more products in the order that correspond to a brand or product marked for drop shipping and eliminate one or more products from the order content for one or more of determining the smallest available package size determining the one or more additional available package sizes calculating the shipping price and presenting the plurality of options for shipping.

Example 22 is computer readable storage media storing instructions that when executed by one or more processors cause the one or more processors to receive an electronic record of an order placed with a merchant wherein the electronic record includes an order content for the order. The instructions cause the one or more processors to identify based on a log of shipped orders a previous order shipped by the merchant that includes a similar order content to the order content of the order. The instructions cause the one or more processors to automatically determine based on the previous order a smallest package size in which the order can ship and a plurality of available package sizes for the merchant in addition to the smallest package size that can accommodate the order. The instructions cause the one or more processors to automatically determine shipping rules that include packaging dimensions and a final shipping weight for each of the smallest available package size and the one or more additional available package sizes. The instructions cause the one or more processors to determine for each of the smallest available package size and the one or more additional available package sizes a shipping price to ship the order content based on the shipping rules. The instructions cause the one or more processors to print a label for a package size corresponding to a lowest cost shipping method wherein the package size for the lowest cost shipping method includes larger dimensions than the smallest available package size.

In Example 23 identifying the previous order in Example 22 includes identifying based on the order content of the order including a same one or more products and a same quantity for the one or more products as the previous order. Additionally determining the final shipping weight includes determining for at least one of the smallest available package size and the one or more additional available package sizes including a same final shipping weight as the previous order.

In Example 24 identifying the previous order in any of Examples 22 23 includes identifying based on the order content of the order including a different one or more products and a same quantity of products as the previous order. The different one or more products have dimensions within a threshold size or percentage of corresponding products in the previous order. Determining the final shipping weight includes determining for at least one of the smallest available package size and the one or more additional available package sizes by substituting a weight for a product of the previous order with a weight of a product of the order.

In Example 25 the instructions in any of Examples 22 24 further cause the one or more processors to store shipping profiles for a plurality of products available for shipping by the merchant wherein the shipping profiles include dimensions and weight for each of the plurality of products available for shipping by the merchant.

On Example 26 the order in any of Examples 22 25 includes a first order and the instructions further cause the one or more processors to receive an electronic record of a second order placed with the merchant determine that there is not a previous order having a similar order content to the second order display a shipping rules page for the second order the shipping rules page providing an interface for a user to input shipping rules comprising one or more of one or more packaging sizes and a final shipping weight receive a selection of a smallest package size for the second order from a user determine based on the smallest package size for the second order one or more available package sizes for the second order in addition to the smallest package size for the second order and automatically update the shipping rules page to indicate that the one or more available package sizes for second order can accommodate the second order wherein for the first order the instructions cause the processor to skip the shipping rules page and automatically generate the shipping rules based on the previous order.

In Example 27 one or more of the one or more additional available package sizes of any of Examples 22 26 include one or more of a size of a flat rate package or a size of a regional rate package.

In Example 28 determining the shipping price in any of Examples 22 27 includes causing the one or more processors to send one or more shipping rules to an API and receive a price for the order based on the shipping rules.

Example 29 is a system or device that includes means for implementing a method or realizing a system or apparatus in any of Examples 1 28.

In the present disclosure reference has been made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific implementations in which the disclosure may be practiced. It is understood that other implementations may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. References in the specification to one embodiment an embodiment an example embodiment etc. indicate that the embodiment described may include a particular feature structure or characteristic but every embodiment may not necessarily include the particular feature structure or characteristic. Moreover such phrases are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment. Further when a particular feature structure or characteristic is described in connection with an embodiment it is submitted that it is within the knowledge of one skilled in the art to affect such feature structure or characteristic in connection with other embodiments whether or not explicitly described.

Implementations of the systems devices and methods disclosed herein may comprise or utilize a special purpose or general purpose computer including computer hardware such as for example one or more processors and system memory as discussed in greater detail below. Implementations within the scope of the present disclosure may also include physical and other computer readable media for carrying or storing computer executable instructions and or data structures. Such computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer system. Computer readable media that store computer executable instructions are computer storage media devices . Computer readable media that carry computer executable instructions are transmission media. Thus by way of example and not limitation implementations of the disclosure can comprise at least two distinctly different kinds of computer readable media computer storage media devices and transmission media.

Computer storage media devices includes RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM solid state drives SSDs e.g. based on RAM Flash memory phase change memory PCM other types of memory other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store desired program code means in the form of computer executable instructions or data structures and which can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer.

An implementation of the devices systems and methods disclosed herein may communicate over a computer network. A network is defined as one or more data links that enable the transport of electronic data between computer systems and or modules and or other electronic devices. When information is transferred or provided over a network or another communications connection either hardwired wireless or a combination of hardwired or wireless to a computer the computer properly views the connection as a transmission medium. Transmissions media can include a network and or data links which can be used to carry desired program code means in the form of computer executable instructions or data structures and which can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Computer executable instructions comprise for example instructions and data which when executed at a processor cause a general purpose computer special purpose computer or special purpose processing device to perform a certain function or group of functions. The computer executable instructions may be for example binaries intermediate format instructions such as assembly language or even source code. Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the described features or acts described above. Rather the described features and acts are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the disclosure may be practiced in network computing environments with many types of computer system configurations including an in dash computer personal computers desktop computers laptop computers message processors hand held devices multi processor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers mobile telephones PDAs tablets pagers routers switches various storage devices and the like. The disclosure may also be practiced in distributed system environments where local and remote computer systems which are linked either by hardwired data links wireless data links or by a combination of hardwired and wireless data links through a network both perform tasks. In a distributed system environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

Further where appropriate functions described herein can be performed in one or more of hardware software firmware digital components or analog components. For example one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs can be programmed to carry out one or more of the systems and procedures described herein. Certain terms are used throughout the description and claims to refer to particular system components. As one skilled in the art will appreciate components may be referred to by different names. This document does not intend to distinguish between components that differ in name but not function.

Embodiments of the disclosure have been directed to computer program products comprising such logic e.g. in the form of software stored on any computer useable medium. Such software when executed in one or more data processing devices causes a device to operate as described herein.

While various embodiments of the present disclosure have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only and not limitation. It will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art that various changes in form and detail can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. Thus the breadth and scope of the present disclosure should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents. The foregoing description has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the disclosure to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. Further it should be noted that any or all of the aforementioned alternate implementations may be used in any combination desired to form additional hybrid implementations of the disclosure.

Further although specific implementations of the disclosure have been described and illustrated the disclosure is not to be limited to the specific forms or arrangements of parts so described and illustrated. The scope of the disclosure is to be defined by the claims appended hereto any future claims submitted here and in different applications and their equivalents.

