---

title: System and method for generating a call report
abstract: Systems and methods for generating call reports which may allow access to the child call for each selected attendee via the group call, and enable users to capture data and make edits to detailing and sampling information unique to each attendee directly in the child call. Access to controls within the attendees section may enable mass entry of supported activities for a subset of attendees.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09549069&OS=09549069&RS=09549069
owner: Veeva Systems Inc.
number: 09549069
owner_city: Pleasanton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150429
---
The subject technology relates generally to customer relationship management CRM and more particularly to generating a call report in a customer relationship management system.

In the pharmaceutical sales industry sales representatives are required to use call reports to record meetings and other interactions with doctors including face to face meetings and discussions via phone or the Internet and the call reports need to include the doctors professional information the medical products discussed the materials shown to the doctors the samples left etc. Non compliant call reports may expose company employers e.g. a pharmaceutical company to regulatory penalties or other legal liabilities. Thus it is desirable to enable sales representatives to prepare call reports efficiently and their company employers to use data in the call reports effectively especially when a sales representative talks to many doctors at one organization.

The disclosed subject matter relates to a method for generating a call report which comprises displaying an attendee selection user interface UI in response to selection of a group account from a customer relationship management system wherein the attendee selection user interface comprises two or more members who are associated with the group account and wherein the customer relationship management system stores account information for each of the two or more members. The method further comprises in response to an input on the attendee selection user interface displaying a first call user interface which displays a first and second attendees selected for the call and a first button for the call wherein the first and second attendees are selected from the two or more members. The method further comprises displaying a second call user interface in response to an input on the first button for the call wherein the second call user interface comprises an area for receiving information unique to the first and second selected attendees and wherein the information unique to the first and second selected attendees is about one or more products discussed during one or more meetings with the first and second selected attendees. The method also comprises sending the information unique to the first and second selected attendees to the customer relationship management system to update only the first and second selected attendees call information in the customer relationship management system.

The detailed description set forth below is intended as a description of various configurations of the subject technology and is not intended to represent the only configurations in which the subject technology may be practiced. The appended drawings are incorporated herein and constitute a part of the detailed description. The detailed description includes specific details for the purpose of providing a thorough understanding of the subject technology. However the subject technology is not limited to the specific details set forth herein and may be practiced without these specific details. In some instances well known structures and components are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the concepts of the subject technology.

The subject technology is directed to techniques for generating call reports for meetings with doctors or health care practitioners. For sales representatives that call on group accounts e.g. a hospital or a healthcare practice group many times they speak to multiple individual accounts e.g. doctors throughout their visits and oftentimes have different discussions with each. Also different quantities of different samples are generally left with more than one doctor. Recording these meetings as multiple individual calls may be labor intensive for the sales representatives or users. It may be also inefficient for a sales representative s company employer e.g. a pharmaceutical company if it chooses to capture all of these activities at a group level. In order to allow for more accurate recording and reporting of field activities the present invention allows sales representatives to capture unique detailing and sampling information for each doctor marked as an attendee on a call to a group account or a group call. The present invention also allows sales representatives to capture detailing and sampling information unique to a subset of the doctors. The group account may act as a hub to capture the main information of the group call which consists of a parent call and one or more child calls. A parent call is created from the group call to capture the information common to the group account and also to contain a summary of the information recorded against all individual accounts in the group account i.e. doctors . Child calls may be created from the group call to capture the information recorded against a subset of individual account or specific to each individual account associated with the group account. Thus detailing and sampling information unique to each attendee can be recorded against him her on the group call and detailing and sampling information common to a subset of attendees can be recorded against this subset of attendees on the group call. Call objectives specific to each attendee can be completed against the respective attendees on their child calls as well. The detailing and sampling information unique to each attendee may include e.g. call details discussions key messages media shown and samples.

The user computing devices may be any machine or system that is used by a user to access the CRM via the network and may be any commercially available computing devices including laptop computers desktop computers mobile phones smart phones tablet computers netbooks and personal digital assistants PDAs . A client application may run from a user computing device e.g. and access the CRM via the network . User computing devices are illustrated in more detail in .

The content repository may store content that a user e.g. a sales representative may access via client applications e.g. in user computing devices and show to a doctor and may be any commercially available storage devices. In an embodiment the content repository is a cloud based or distributed network based system for consolidating an enterprise s data oftentimes integrating multiple content repositories in an enterprise into a single system having coordinated control measuring and auditing of data creation access and distribution. In an embodiment this content repository may include specific data collections for the life sciences industry although it may store content for other industries. In one embodiment the content repository may provide an end to end solution for the development approval distribution expiration and withdrawal of promotional materials. Specific features include support for global pieces approved Form FDA or similar international forms form generation online document and video annotation and a built in digital asset library DAL .

The customer relationship management server is typically a remote computer system accessible over a remote or local network such as the network and may provide access to the customer relationship management subsystem . The customer relationship management server could be any commercially available computing devices. A client application e.g. process may be active on one or more user computing devices . The corresponding server process may be active on the customer relationship management server . The client application process and the corresponding server process may communicate with each other over the network thus providing distributed functionality and allowing multiple client applications to take advantage of the information gathering capabilities of the CRM .

In one implementation the customer relationship management server may include a call report controller which may control the process for generating a call report as will be described with reference to below.

Although the customer relationship management server and the call report controller are shown in one server it should be understood that they may be implemented in multiple servers.

In one implementation the customer relationship management subsystem contains all contact information that may be available to users. In addition to storage of contact information the customer relationship management subsystem may also be capable of storing configurations regarding specific preferences regulatory limitations and requirements and other fields that will facilitate communications in general or on a by recipient basis.

In one implementation the customer relationship management subsystem is capable of communication with multiple sources through the customer relationship management server or through other channels to maintain a current and accurate collection of information regarding customer accounts which may include group accounts and individual accounts. The interface with the multiple sources can be for example through an Applications Programming Interface or API as the API interface will allow compatibility with a flexible array of third party provider servers. The information being updated may include but is not limited to licensing information area of practice and location of the various customer accounts. In this manner the customer relationship management subsystem pulls the approved version of what represents an account which may be a hospital or physician which then pulls from multiple networks to ensure that the information regarding an account is up to date.

In one implementation the CRM may be a multi tenant system where various elements of hardware and software may be shared by one or more customers. For instance a server may simultaneously process requests from a plurality of customers. In a multi tenant system a user is typically associated with a particular customer. In one example a user could be an employee of one of a number of pharmaceutical companies which are tenants or customers of the CRM .

Although the embodiments are described with a customer relationship management subsystem the customer information and content may be from other types of information management systems e.g. a Closed Loop Marketing CLM system.

In one embodiment the CRM may run on a cloud computing platform. Users can access content on the cloud independently by using a virtual machine image or purchasing access to a service maintained by a cloud database provider. The customer relationship management subsystem may be a cloud based customer database that provides a central access to store and distribute consistent data across customer companies as well as their possible third party partners and agencies that are used to keep this data updated. This system can provide standard data formats and provide an easy and automated way for customers to have access to coordinated and frequently updated CRM data.

In one embodiment the CRM may be provided as Software as a Service SaaS to allow users to access it with a thin client.

The processing unit may be configured to execute computer instructions that are stored in a computer readable medium for example the system memory . The processing unit may be a central processing unit CPU .

The system memory typically includes a variety of computer readable media which may be any available media accessible by the processing unit . For instance the system memory may include computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and or random access memory RAM . By way of example but not limitation the system memory may store instructions and data e.g. an operating system program modules various application programs and program data.

A user can enter commands and information to the computing device through the input device . The input device may be e.g. a keyboard a touchscreen input device a touch pad a mouse a microphone and or a pen.

The computing device may provide its output via the output device which may be e.g. a monitor or other type of display device a speaker or a printer.

The computing device through the network interface may operate in a networked or distributed environment using logical connections to one or more other computing devices which may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device a smart phone or any other media consumption or transmission device and may include any or all of the elements described above. The logical connections may include a network e.g. the network and or buses. The network interface may be configured to allow the computing device to transmit and receive data in a network for example the network . The network interface may include one or more network interface cards NICs .

When the user selects a doctor the doctor s name may be displayed in an attendee row in an attendees table area on a parent call UI as shown in . A child call button may be displayed to the left of each attendee. The user may tap or click on the child call button or anywhere on the attendee row to open a child call report UI for the corresponding attendee which will be described in detail below with reference to .

The parent call UI may have a Record Details button . The user may click on the Record Details button to begin a mass detailing process which will be described in detail below with reference to .

The parent call UI may have a Record Samples button . The user may click on the Record Samples button to start a mass sampling process which will be described in detail below with reference to .

The parent call UI may have a Media button . The user may click on the Media button to begin showing digital media presentation to one or more attendees.

The parent call UI may have a Sign button . The user may click on the Sign button to capture signatures from one or more attendees electronically.

In one implementation one or more attendee specific fields may be displayed under each attendee row as shown in . The user may input attendee specific information in the attendee specific fields such as an attendee s specialty and role. The attendee specific fields to be displayed may be configured by the customer.

When there is a user input on the product badge e.g. a tap click or mouse over a popup window may be displayed to list the products detailed in priority order as shown in . When there is a user input on the media badge a popup window may be displayed to list media thumbnails and key message descriptions for the media presented e.g. slides video and audio from the content repository in the sequence they were shown as shown in . When there is a user input on the sample badge a popup window may be displayed to list the sampled products as shown in . In one implementation the samples are listed by product type display order then alphabetically. In one implementation the quantity and lot may be shown in parentheses after the product name. When there is a user input on the signature badge information about signatures acquired may be displayed.

Using the Record Details button in the parent call UI may allow the user to start to record mass details for a subset of selected attendees on the group call. illustrates an example UI for selecting attendees for a mass detailing process according to one embodiment of the present invention. When the user clicks on the Record Details button on the parent call UI in the attendees table shown in the attendees table area may change to a multi select list one row for each attendee and the child call buttons next to the selected attendees may be replaced with multi select checkboxes . In addition the Record Details button the Record Samples button the Media button and the Sign button may be replaced with a Cancel button a Select All button and a Next button . The user may choose one or more attendees in the multi select list for the mass detailing process. The user may add or remove attendees using the checkboxes when the multi select list is displayed. Selection of the Cancel button may clear the multi select checkboxes and replace with the child call buttons selection of the Select All button may select all the checkboxes and selection of the Next button may open a mass detailing UI over the UI . The Next button may become active if at least one attendee is selected.

The mass detailing UI may include a detailing priority area which may allow the user to add remove and modify detailed products and detailing priority. The mass detailing UI may also include a key message area which may allow the user to add remove and modify key messages e.g. patient tolerability of a product and new indication of a product .

The mass detailing UI may have a header which may include the header name Record Mass Details a Cancel button and a Save button . The user may click on the Cancel button to close the mass detailing UI without saving and return to the parent call UI . When the user clicks on the Save button data captured on the mass detailing UI e.g. detailed products and detailing priority may be stored in the customer relationship management subsystem and applied to each of the selected attendees e.g. Dr. Stephanie Edwards and Dr. Joshua Williams on each respective child call so that their attendee specific information may be updated in the customer relationship management subsystem . If a child call report already exists for the attendee the detail information may be updated as shown in . If a child call report does not exist for the attendee a new child call report may be created for the attendee with the mass details when mass details are applied. The badges shown in may be updated accordingly.

Using the Record Samples button on the parent call UI may allow the user to record unique sampling information for a subset of selected attendees on the group call. illustrates an example UI for selecting attendees for a mass sampling process according to one embodiment of the present invention. When the user clicks on the Record Samples button on the parent call UI shown in the attendee table shown in the attendees table area may change to a multi select list one row for each attendee and the child call buttons next to the selected attendees may be replaced with multi selected checkboxes . In addition the Record Details button the Record Samples button the Media button and the Sign button may be replaced with a Cancel button a Select All button and a Next button . The user may choose one or more attendees in the multi select list for the mass sampling process. The user may add and remove attendees using the checkboxes when the multi select list is displayed. Selection of the Cancel button may clear the multi select checkboxes and replace with the child call buttons selection of the Select All button may select all the checkboxes and selection of the Next button may open a mass sampling UI as shown in over the UI . The Next button may become active if at least one attendee is selected.

A sample status indicator may appear to the left of the attendee name to indicate if the attendee is eligible to receive samples. If samples are locked down for an attendee e.g. has a signature this particular attendee e.g. Dr. Robert Goldberg may not be selected for the mass sampling process.

The mass sampling UI may include a Samples and Promotional Items area . The user may enter sample related information in fields in the area e.g. types of the samples lots numbers quantity left recipients and ship to addresses.

The mass sampling UI may have a header which may include the header name Record Mass Samples a Cancel button and a Save button . The user may click on the Cancel button to close the mass sampling UI without saving and return to the parent call UI . When the user clicks on the Save button data captured on the mass detailing UI e.g. types of the samples lot numbers quantity left recipients and ship to addresses may be stored in the customer relationship management subsystem and applied to each of the selected attendees e.g. Dr. Stephanie Edwards and Dr. Joshua Williams on each respective child call so that their attendee specific information may be updated in the customer relationship management subsystem . The badges shown in may be updated accordingly.

Selecting the Media button on the parent call UI may allow the user to record unique media details and key messages for a subset of selected attendees on the group call. The Media button may open a media presentation selection UI from which the user can select a digital media presentation to show the attendees. Media may be filtered based on restricted products for the group account allowed products on territory specific field TSF for the group account and allowed products on the group call for the business account. After the user selects the presentation the attendee selection wizard may be displayed which is a multi select picklist that displays a list of selected attendees. Data captured on the media presentation selection UI may be stored in the customer relationship management subsystem and applied to each of the selected attendees e.g. Dr. Stephanie Edwards and Dr. Joshua Williams to update their information in the customer relationship management subsystem . Specifically the subject product of the selected presentation may be added as a detailed product to the child call reports of the selected attendees. In addition the key messages from displayed slides of the selected presentation may be added to the child call reports of the selected attendees. The badges shown in may be updated accordingly.

Using the Sign button on the parent call UI may allow the user to capture signatures for a subset of selected attendees on the parent call. The Sign button may open an attendee selection wizard which may display a single select picklist that displays a list of attendees selected for the parent call and a message SELECT ONE ATTENDEE TO SIGN . A signature UI may be provided for the user to enter signature related information and capture an attendee s signature. When the user clicks on an Accept button on the signature UI signature data captured on the signature UI may be stored in the customer relationship management subsystem and applied to the select attendee who signed e.g. Dr. Stephanie Edwards to update her information in the customer relationship management subsystem . The badges shown in may be updated accordingly.

When the user selects the child call button on the parent call UI he may start to record a child report. and illustrate an example UI for a child call report according to one embodiment of the present invention. The child call report UI may be a standard edit window that opens on top of the parent call UI . The child call report UI may have a header which may include attendee name and actions such as cancel jump to another selected attendee media and sign. When the user selects the Cancel button the child call may be closed and the user may be navigated back to the parent call UI . When the user selects the Jump to button he may be allowed to select another attendee. Attendee name displays the name of the attendee for the child call e.g. Robert Goldberg. The Media button may navigate the user to a media selection screen. The Sign button may allow the user to enter signature information on the child call.

The header may also have other actions such as save delete new email and new medical inquiry. The Save button may be used to save all changes to the child call report and navigate the user back to the parent call UI . The Delete button may be used to delete the child call report and navigate the user back to the parent call UI . The Medical Inquiry may open a new medical inquiry record for the attendee. The Send Email button may open a UI for email template selection.

The child call report UI may have fields for the user to enter information about the child call e.g. date time duration sample card number sample card reason sample send card and supervising physician.

The child call report UI may have a detailing priority section . The user may enter information about the subject product of the child call. The user may also remove or modify detailed products and detailing priority.

The child call report UI may have a key messages section . The user may enter information about key messages including the subject product name of the key messages description of the key messages e.g. the product s efficacy and safety and the attendee s reaction. The user may also remove or modify key messages.

The child call report UI may have a media section . The system may record information about media shown during the child call with the attendee e.g. presentation name subject product message description key messages and the attendee s reaction. The user may remove or modify media information.

The child call report UI may have a call objectives section . The user may enter information about call objectives e.g. the six month checkpoint and the one year checkpoint for a product. The user may also remove or modify call objectives.

The child call report UI may have a samples and promotional items section . The user may input information about samples or promotional items such as products lots quantity left ship to address and recipients. The user may also remove or modify samples and promotional items.

When a child call report is saved if there are one or more detailed products selected on the child call the detail badge may be displayed next to the attendee name as shown in . If there are one or more slides presented on the child call the media badge may be displayed. If there are one or more samples or other promotional items selected on the child call the sample badge may be displayed next to the attendee name. If a signature is required on a child call but has not yet been received a signature required badge may appear next to the attendee name. If a signature has been captured on a child call a signed badge may be displayed next to the attendee name.

At it may be determined by the group call controller if a user selected a group account from the customer relationship management subsystem to start a call report.

At it may be determined by the group call controller if a member of the group account is selected on the attendee selection UI.

At it may be determined by the group call controller if there is any user input on the badge or . If not the process may proceed to .

Otherwise at popup windows for the detailed products media shown and samples left may be displayed as shown in .

At it may be determined by the group call controller if the Record Mass Details button on the parent call UI is clicked on. If not the process may process to .

Otherwise at a user selection UI for the mass detailing process e.g. the UI shown in may be displayed.

At it may be determined by the group call controller if the user has selected one or more attendees to record mass details.

At call information of attendees selected for the mass detailing process e.g. Dr. Stephanie Edwards and Dr. Joshua Williams shown in in the customer relationship management subsystem may be updated with the information received on the mass detailing UI.

At updated call information of attendees selected for the mass detailing process may be displayed e.g. on the user interfaces and shown in .

At it may be determined by the group call controller if the Record Mass Samples button on the parent call UI is clicked on. If not the process may proceed to .

Otherwise at an attendee selection UI for the mass sampling process e.g. the UI shown in may be displayed.

At it may be determined by the group call controller if the user has selected one or more attendees to record mass samples.

At call information of attendees selected for the mass sampling process e.g. Dr. Stephanie Edwards and Dr. Joshua Williams shown in in the customer relationship management subsystem may be updated with the information received on the mass sampling UI.

At updated call information of attendees selected for the mass sampling process may be displayed on e.g. on the user interfaces and shown in .

At it may be determined by the group call controller if the child call button on the parent call UI is clicked on.

Information about a child call e.g. with Dr. Robert Goldberg may be received on the child call UI at .

At account information of the attendee selected for the child call e.g. Dr. Robert Goldberg shown in in the customer relationship management subsystem may be updated with the received child call information.

At updated call information of the attendee selected for child call e.g. Dr. Robert Goldberg shown in may be displayed e.g. on the user interfaces and shown in . The process may then return to .

The above described features and applications can be implemented as software processes that are specified as a set of instructions recorded on a computer readable storage medium also referred to as computer readable medium . When these instructions are executed by one or more processing unit s e.g. one or more processors cores of processors or other processing units they cause the processing unit s to perform the actions indicated in the instructions. Examples of computer readable media include but are not limited to CD ROMs flash drives RAM chips hard drives EPROMs etc. The computer readable media does not include carrier waves and electronic signals passing wirelessly or over wired connections.

These functions described above can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry in computer software firmware or hardware. The techniques can be implemented using one or more computer program products. Programmable processors and computers can be included in or packaged as mobile devices. The processes and logic flows can be performed by one or more programmable processors and by one or more programmable logic circuitry. General and special purpose computing devices and storage devices can be interconnected through communication networks.

In this specification the term software is meant to include firmware residing in read only memory or applications stored in magnetic storage which can be read into memory for processing by a processor. Also in some implementations multiple software technologies can be implemented as sub parts of a larger program while remaining distinct software technologies. In some implementations multiple software technologies can also be implemented as separate programs. Finally any combination of separate programs that together implement a software technology described here is within the scope of the subject technology. In some implementations the software programs when installed to operate on one or more electronic systems define one or more specific machine implementations that execute and perform the operations of the software programs. Examples of computer programs or computer code include machine code for example is produced by a compiler and files including higher level code that are executed by a computer an electronic component or a microprocessor using an interpreter.

A computer program also known as a program software software application script or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages declarative or procedural languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine object or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program may but need not correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

As used in this specification and any claims of this application the terms computer server processor and memory all refer to electronic or other technological devices. These terms exclude people or groups of people. For the purposes of the specification the terms display or displaying means displaying on an electronic device. As used in this specification and any claims of this application the terms computer readable medium and computer readable media are entirely restricted to tangible physical objects that store information in a form that is readable by a computer. These terms exclude any wireless signals wired download signals and any other ephemeral signals.

It is understood that any specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes disclosed is an illustration of example approaches. Based upon design preferences it is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes may be rearranged or that all illustrated steps be performed. Some of the steps may be performed simultaneously. For example in certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system components illustrated above should not be understood as requiring such separation and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.

Various modifications to these aspects will be readily apparent and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other aspects. Thus the claims are not intended to be limited to the aspects shown herein but is to be accorded the full scope consistent with the language claims where reference to an element in the singular is not intended to mean one and only one unless specifically so stated but rather one or more. Unless specifically stated otherwise the term some refers to one or more.

