---

title: Cell selection in dynamic spectrum arbitrage system
abstract: A dynamic spectrum arbitrage (DSA) system may include a dynamic spectrum policy controller (DPC) and a dynamic spectrum controller (DSC) that together dynamically manage the allocation and use of resources (e.g., spectrum resources) across different networks. A wireless device may be configured to intelligently select and use these allocated resources. For example, the wireless device may be configured to traverse an ordered list of preferred of networks to identify and select a first cell site in a first telecommunication network, establish a first communication link between the wireless device and the selected first cell site, receive network information identifying a geographic region in which the wireless device is allowed to use resources of a second telecommunication network, determine whether the wireless device is in the geographical region, and establish a second communication link to a second cell in the second telecommunication network based on the received network information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09426727&OS=09426727&RS=09426727
owner: RIVADA NETWORKS, LLC.
number: 09426727
owner_city: Colorado Springs
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150616
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 287 096 entitled Cell Selection in Dynamic Spectrum Arbitrage System filed May 26 2014 which claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 827 927 entitled Methods and Systems for Dynamic Spectrum Arbitrage User Profile Management filed May 29 2013 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

With the ever increasing use of wireless communication devices for accessing networks and downloading large files e.g. video files there is an increasing demand for radio frequency spectrum. Smart phone users complain about dropped calls slow access to the Internet and similar problems which are due largely to too many devices trying to access finite RF bandwidth allocated to such services. Yet parts of the RF spectrum such as the RF bands dedicated to emergency services e.g. police fire and rescue etc. go largely unused due to the non continuous and episodic employment of such voice radio communication bands. Therefore improved methods and solutions for dynamically allocating underutilized telecommunication resources e.g. RF spectrum etc. of a first telecommunication network for access and use by wireless devices that subscribe to other networks will be beneficial to the telecommunication networks service providers and to the consumers of telecommunication services.

The various embodiments include dynamic spectrum arbitrage DSA methods that include traversing by a processor of a wireless device an ordered list of preferred of networks to select a first cell site in a first telecommunication network establishing a first communication link between the wireless device and the selected first cell site receiving in the wireless device network information identifying a geographic region in which the wireless device is allowed to use resources of a second telecommunication network determining whether the wireless device is in the geographical region and establishing a second communication link between the wireless device and a second cell in the second telecommunication network based on the received network information and in response to determining that the wireless device is in the geographical region.

In an embodiment receiving network information may include receiving a closed subscriber group CSG identifier that defines a specific CSG or hybrid cell in the second telecommunication network. In a further embodiment establishing the first communication link between the wireless device and the selected first cell site may include establishing the first communication link to a home network of the wireless device and establishing the second communication link between the wireless device and the second cell in the second telecommunication network based on the received network information may include establishing the second communication link to a cell site in a lessor network that is different than the home network of the wireless device.

In a further embodiment receiving network information may include receiving system information block SIB information. In a further embodiment establishing the second communication link between the wireless device and the second cell in the second telecommunication network based on the received network may include establishing a connection between the wireless device and another Radio Access Technology RAT that is associated with the same or another network. In a further embodiment establishing the second communication link between the wireless device and the second cell in the second telecommunication network based on the received network may include establishing a connection on another frequency band. In a further embodiment the wireless device may include a dual USIM configured to facilitate the proper acquisition of a network using a DSA process.

In a further embodiment the method may include receiving the network information in a first dynamic spectrum controller DSC in the first telecommunication network sending the network information from the first DSC to a dynamic spectrum policy controller DPC that is outside of the first and second telecommunication networks and sending the network information from the DPC to a second DSC in the second telecommunication network. In a further embodiment the method may include receiving in a processor of the DPC a request for radio frequency RF spectrum resources from the first DSC determining an amount of RF spectrum resources available for allocation within the second telecommunication network dynamically allocating a portion of available RF spectrum resources of the second telecommunication network for access and use by the first telecommunication network and informing the first DSC that use of allocated RF spectrum resources may begin.

Further embodiments may include dynamic spectrum arbitrage DSA system that may include a first dynamic spectrum controller DSC including a first DSC processor an eNodeB and a wireless device including a device processor. The device processor may be configured with processor executable instructions to perform operations that include traversing an ordered list of preferred of networks to select a first cell site in a first telecommunication network establishing a first communication link to the selected first cell site receiving network information from the DSC identifying a specific geographic region in which the wireless device is allowed to use resources of a second telecommunication network determining whether the wireless device is in the geographical region and establishing a second communication link to a second cell in the second telecommunication network based on the received network information.

In an embodiment the device processor may be configured with processor executable instructions to perform operations such that receiving network information includes receiving a closed subscriber group CSG identifier that defines a specific CSG or hybrid cell in the second telecommunication network. In an embodiment the device processor may be configured with processor executable instructions to perform operations such that establishing the first communication link to the selected first cell site includes establishing the first communication link to a cell site in the home network of the wireless device and establishing a second communication link to a second cell in the second telecommunication network based on the received network information may include establishing the second communication link to a cell site in a lessor network that is different than the home network of the wireless device.

In an embodiment the device processor may be configured with processor executable instructions to perform operations such that receiving network information includes receiving system information block SIB information. In an embodiment the device processor may be configured with processor executable instructions to perform operations such that establishing the second communication link between the wireless device and the second cell in the second telecommunication network based on the received network includes establishing a connection between the wireless device and another Radio Access Technology RAT that is associated with the same or another network. In an embodiment the device processor may be configured with processor executable instructions to perform operations such that establishing the second communication link between the wireless device and the second cell in the second telecommunication network includes establishing a connection on another frequency band.

In an embodiment the wireless device may include a dual USIM configured to facilitate the proper acquisition of a network using a DSA process. In an embodiment the first DSC processor may be configured with processor executable instructions to perform operations including receiving the network information and sending the network information to a dynamic spectrum policy controller DPC that is outside of the first and second telecommunication networks for forwarding to a second DSC in the second telecommunication network. In an embodiment the DPC may include a DPC processor configured with processor executable instructions to perform operations that include receiving a request for radio frequency RF spectrum resources from the first DSC determining an amount of RF spectrum resources available for allocation within the second telecommunication network dynamically allocating a portion of available RF spectrum resources of the second telecommunication network for access and use by the first telecommunication network and informing the first DSC that use of allocated RF spectrum resources may begin.

Further embodiments may include a wireless device having a device processor configured with processor executable instructions to perform operations that include traversing an ordered list of preferred of networks to select a first cell site in a first telecommunication network establishing a first communication link to the selected first cell site receiving network information identifying a specific geographic region in which the wireless device is allowed to use resources of a second telecommunication network determining whether the wireless device is in the geographical region and establishing a second communication link to a second cell in the second telecommunication network based on the received network information. In a further embodiment the device processor may be configured with processor executable instructions to perform operations such that receiving network information includes receiving a closed subscriber group CSG identifier that defines a specific CSG or hybrid cell in the second telecommunication network.

Further embodiments include a wireless computing device having a processor or processing core configured with processor executable instructions to perform various operations corresponding to the methods discussed above.

Further embodiments include server computing devices having one or more processors configured with processor executable instructions to perform various operations corresponding to the methods discussed above.

Further embodiments include computing devices that include various means for performing functions corresponding to the method operations discussed above.

Further embodiments include a non transitory processor readable storage medium having stored thereon processor executable instructions configured to cause a processor processing core to perform various operations corresponding to the method operations discussed above.

The various embodiments will be described in detail with reference to the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts. References made to particular examples and implementations are for illustrative purposes and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention or the claims.

As used herein the terms mobile device wireless device and user equipment UE may be used interchangeably and refer to any one of various cellular telephones personal data assistants PDA s palm top computers laptop computers with wireless modems wireless electronic mail receivers e.g. the Blackberry and Treo devices multimedia Internet enabled cellular telephones e.g. the iPhone and similar personal electronic devices. A wireless device may include a programmable processor and memory. In a preferred embodiment the wireless device is a cellular handheld device e.g. a wireless device which can communicate via a cellular telephone communications network.

As used in this application the terms component module engine manager are intended to include a computer related entity such as but not limited to hardware firmware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution which are configured to perform particular operations or functions. For example a component may be but is not limited to a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program a computer a server network hardware etc. By way of illustration both an application running on a computing device and the computing device may be referred to as a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one processor or core and or distributed between two or more processors or cores. In addition these components may execute from various non transitory computer readable media having various instructions and or data structures stored thereon.

A number of different cellular and mobile communication services and standards are available or contemplated in the future all of which may implement and benefit from the various embodiments. Such services and standards include e.g. third generation partnership project 3GPP long term evolution LTE systems third generation wireless mobile communication technology 3G fourth generation wireless mobile communication technology 4G global system for mobile communications GSM universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS 3GSM general packet radio service GPRS code division multiple access CDMA systems e.g. cdmaOne CDMA2000 enhanced data rates for GSM evolution EDGE advanced mobile phone system AMPS digital AMPS IS 136 TDMA evolution data optimized EV DO digital enhanced cordless telecommunications DECT Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX wireless local area network WLAN public switched telephone network PSTN Wi Fi Protected Access I II WPA WPA2 Bluetooth integrated digital enhanced network iden land mobile radio LMR and evolved universal terrestrial radio access network E UTRAN . Each of these technologies involves for example the transmission and reception of voice data signaling and or content messages. It should be understood that any references to terminology and or technical details related to an individual telecommunication standard or technology are for illustrative purposes only and are not intended to limit the scope of the claims to a particular communication system or technology unless specifically recited in the claim language.

A high priority in responding to any emergency or disaster situation is establishing effective communications. In large scale emergency or disaster both manmade and natural situations it is paramount to maintain communications between all first responders and emergency personnel in order to respond manage and control the emergency situation effectively. In the absence of effective communication among first responders and other emergency personnel resources may not be effectively mobilized to the areas which need the resources most. Even in minor emergency situations e.g. traffic accidents and fires first responders must be able to call on support assets and coordinate with other services e.g. public utilities hospitals etc. .

With the ubiquity of wireless device ownership and usage emergency communication via wireless devices using commercial cellular communication networks often are the most efficient and effective means to mobilize emergency response personnel and resources. Enabling wireless devices to provide effective emergency communications obviates the technical challenges and expense of coordinating radio frequencies among various first responder agencies e.g. police fire ambulance FEMA public utilities etc. . Also qualified first responders to an accident who are off duty or not ordinarily equipped with radios e.g. doctors nurses retired police or military personnel will have or can quickly borrow a wireless device.

Emergency communications over cellular communication networks is not without problems however. Cellular and other telecommunication networks networks are designed to accommodate access requests from only a fraction of the total number of wireless devices in a particular cell. At times of emergency or crisis network resources may become overtaxed when predictable human responses to the situation prompt an extraordinary number of wireless device users within a particular cell to access the network at the same time. Wireless device users may be attempting to alert emergency personnel of the emergency situation such as a 911 emergency call or to alert friends or family members that the user is safe despite being in the area of an emergency situation. Some users may be transmitting images of the emergency condition fire accident etc. to news services or friends. In a wide scale situation emergency responders using wireless devices for emergency communications will add to the call volume. Regardless the predictable increase in call volume during an emergency situation can overwhelm a commercial cellular communications network particularly in the cell zone encompassing the emergency thus rendering the network unreliable for emergency response personnel communication usage.

To overcome these and other limitations of existing solutions the various embodiments include components configured to provide tiered priority access TPA capabilities to deliver quality of service QoS and grade of service GoS based wireless device communications for first responders. Detailed descriptions of example TPA systems are provided in U.S. Pat. No. 8 275 349 dated Sep. 25 2012 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety and for all purposes.

In overview a TPA system or solution may include various components configured to perform various TPA operations to coordinate make available and or provide wireless communication resources to high priority users e.g. emergency personnel during times of high congestion or in emergency situations. For example TPA components may be configured to monitor a wireless network s call volume determine whether the wireless network call volume exceeds a first pre determined threshold partition the wireless network resources based on priorities when the wireless network call volume exceeds the first pre determined threshold and reserve a portion of the partitioned resources for high priority usage i.e. use by wireless devices of authorized emergency personnel . The TPA components may be further configured to monitor incoming and outgoing calls to determine whether a call is made from or to an high priority device e.g. to or from a pre registered wireless device or wireless devices of authorized emergency personnel allow general access to the wireless network resources so long as no call is made from or to high priority device and restrict general access to the wireless network resources in response to determining that a call is made to or from a high priority device. As such TPA solutions allow telecommunication systems use more the available resources and ensure that high priority users can access and use the system when needed.

In the various embodiments these and other TPA operations may be performed in or in conjunction with a dynamic spectrum arbitrage DSA system configured to dynamically manage the availability allocation access and use of telecommunication resources e.g. RF spectrum etc. between two or more networks e.g. between a lessor network and a lessee network . A detailed description of an example DSA system is provided in U.S. Pat. No. 8 711 721 dated Apr. 29 2014 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety and for all purposes.

Briefly a DSA system may include a dynamic spectrum policy controller DPC configured to manage the DSA operations and interactions between two or more networks e.g. between a lessor network and a lessee network . The DPC component may be configured to establish a first communication link to a first dynamic spectrum controller DSC component in a first communication network e.g. E UTRAN etc. and a second communication link to a second DSC component in a second communication network. The DPC component may then determine whether radio frequency RF spectrum resources are available for allocation within the second communication network determine the amount of RF spectrum resources that are available for allocation and perform various operations to allocate all or a portion of the available RF resources of the second communication network for access and use by wireless devices in the first communication network.

The various embodiments include improved cell selection methods that allow the wireless devices to intelligently access and use the allocated resources e.g. RF spectrum resources . In an embodiment the cell selection methods may include selecting a cell in a lessor network based on a closed subscriber group identifier.

Generally wireless devices include modem cards that enable their users to access wireless Internet protocol IP and data services through telecommunication networks. These modems often tie the wireless device a specific telecommunication service carrier e.g. AT T Verizon etc. by requiring that the wireless device connect to the global telecommunications network and ultimately the Internet through that carrier s network herein home network . When a connection through the home network is not available such as when the wireless device is outside the geographical range of its home network a conventional wireless device may be allowed to roam by connecting through a different service provider s cellular network herein visited network .

For example when a conventional wireless device is powered on the device performs various operations to identify a suitable carrier and or network through which the wireless device may connect to the global telecommunications network. The wireless device may first scan the available cellular networks to determine whether a connection through the home network is available. This may be achieved by comparing values stored on a subscriber identification module SIM of the device to one or more values received from the telecommunication networks to determine whether the values identify at least one of the available cellular networks as being the wireless device s home network. If the values identify at least one of the available cellular networks as the home network the wireless device may automatically establish a connection to the home network. On the other hand when the values stored on the SIM do not match any of the values received from the available cellular networks the wireless device may traverse a preferred roaming list PRL to identify a visitor network through which the device may connect to the global telecommunication network and establish a connection to one of the identified visitor networks.

While such roaming capability provides the conventional wireless device with added mobility and connectivity it is often much more expensive than connecting via the wireless device s home network. Further the DSA system allows a first telecommunication network to lease resources from a second telecommunication network and for wireless devices that subscribe to the first telecommunication network to use the leased resources in the same manner as they would use the resources of their home network i.e. without paying roaming rates .

By configuring the wireless devices to intelligently determine the resources that they are authorized to access and use the various embodiments prevent wireless devices that subscribe to participating networks from attaching to an overloaded cell site in their home network and or to a cell site of a visitor network when a leased resource is available. That is the various embodiments allow the wireless devices to intelligently identify a carrier network and or cell through which they connect to the global telecommunication network and ultimately the Internet. In an embodiment the wireless devices may identify the carrier network cell by using a closed subscriber group identifier value.

In the various embodiments a wireless device may be equipped with SIM hardware memory or card that stores one or more values that identify the wireless device s home network and or the current network to which the wireless device is connected. In various embodiments the SIM may be implemented in hardware a mobile device memory and or a removable memory card. The SIM may be a universal SIM USIM virtual SIM a removable user identity module R UIM a Mini SIM a MicroSIM an embedded SIM or any other similar identity module. In an embodiment the SIM may be a 3GPP compliant SIM such as USIM that is configured to support UMTS EDGE GPRS LTE CDMA and or other related communication technologies. In various embodiments the SIM may be a single SIM dual SIM or multi SIM. In an embodiment the SIM may be configured to support a Milenage authentication algorithm which is a known algorithm that is based on an Advanced Encryption Standard AES .

The SIM may be configured to store critical information that may be used by the wireless device to select the correct most available most appropriate and or most cost effective network e.g. PLMN through which the wireless device may connect and or to determine that is no longer to utilize a PLMN. This critical information may include a home public land mobile network HPLMN value that may be used to identify a participating public land mobile network PLMN to which the mobile device may connect a home international mobile subscriber identity IMSI value a prioritized list of permitted virtual participating public land mobile network VPLMN and a list of forbidden PLMNs.

In addition a wireless device may store a preferred list of networks PLMNs and radio carriers that it is authorized to utilize. The preferred list may be an ordered list that organizes the networks carriers in a rank order. A wireless device may be configured to select a carrier network and cell based on the preferred list. For example when the wireless device is powered on and or is trying to establish or reestablish connectivity the wireless device may sequentially traverse the preferred list to identify a suitable network and or cell site through with it may connect to the global telecommunication network.

After selecting a carrier network and or cell site the wireless device may request and or receive network information e.g. network ids cell ides CSG ids etc. via a system information block SIB or master information block MIB communication signal and camp on the cell. The wireless device may then continuously repeatedly or periodically scan for other cells and determine whether it is camped on the best serving cell. This may be achieved via the wireless device measuring the signal strengths from adjacent cells and or based on access technology. The wireless device may then connect to the best serving cell.

In an embodiment the wireless device may be configured to update the preferred list in response to receiving an over the air broadcast or communication signal a wireless application protocol WAP communication message a short message service SMS message etc. The wireless device may be further configured to begin searching for a new PLMN in response to detecting or determining that the preferred list has been updated. For example the wireless device may be equipped with a client software application configured to reinitiate the cell selection process or begin searching for a new PLMN that has been made available via the updated preferred list in response to receiving a WAP SMS message that includes an updated preferred list.

In addition the wireless device may be configured to monitor the preferred list to determine whether the list has been updated and or to detect changes in the preferred list. Alternatively or in addition the wireless device may determine whether it has received cell reselection instructions or updated network cell information such as a new SIB MIB that instructs the wireless device to perform reselection operations. That is the wireless device may continue to monitor the SIB MIB for any changes or additional information and perform cell reselection operations in response to determining that the performed list has been updated. The wireless device may also be configured to perform cell reselection operations in response to determining that reselection instructions have been received e.g. via the SIB MIB .

As mentioned above the wireless device may request and or receive network information after selecting a cell site to camp and or after camping on a selected cell site. In an embodiment this network information may include a closed subscriber group CSG identifier CGS Id . A wireless device may use the CSG Ids to perform the cell selection reselection operations and to better manage its connections to the components in the lessor network. In an embodiment the wireless devices may be configured to determine virtual bid areas based on CSGs or CSG Ids. In an embodiment the lessor network may use the CSG Ids to manage the connections on a per user and or per bid basis such as by using the CSG Ids to identify lessee wireless devices that are specific to a bid and providing the identified devices with different services e.g. different QoS levels based on bid specific policies and or applying bid specific charging rules to the identified wireless devices.

As an example after establishing a communication link to a carrier network cell the wireless device may receive a SIB MIB that includes CGS ids that define specific CSG or hybrid cell. The wireless device may use this information to identify compute or determine a geographic region in which the wireless device is allowed to use components of a lessor network e.g. an area in which the wireless device may attach to an eNodeB of the lessor network . The wireless device may then determine whether it is in the geographic area member of the CSG and or within the area of the hybrid cell and use this information to a new connection to a different resource cell in the same or different network. The wireless device may also use this information to begin communicating on a different frequency band and or to establish a communication link to another or different radio access technology RAT that is associated with the same or a different network.

The various embodiments may include a wireless device configured to select a first cell site in a first telecommunication network e.g. the home network of the wireless device a lessee network etc. and establish a first communication link to the selected first cell site. The wireless device may then receive network information identifying a specific geographic region in which the wireless device is allowed to use resources of a second telecommunication network e.g. a lessor network that is different than a home network of the wireless device . In an embodiment the network information may include a closed subscriber group CSG identifier that defines a specific CSG or hybrid cell in the second telecommunication network. The network information may be received via SIB MIB and or may be SIB information.

In response to receiving the network information the wireless device may establish a second communication link to a second cell in the second telecommunication network e.g. by using the CSG identifier etc. which may include establishing a connection on another frequency band or establishing the connection using a Radio Access Technology RAT that is associated with the first second or another telecommunication network.

In an embodiment a first DSC in the first telecommunication network may receive the network information and send this information to a DPC that is outside of the first and second telecommunication networks. The DPC may receive and send the network information to a second DSC in the second telecommunication network. The second DSC may then use this information to allow access to the wireless devices of the first telecommunication network.

The various embodiments may be implemented within a variety of communication systems examples of which are illustrated in . With reference to wireless devices may be configured to transmit and receive voice data and control signals to and from a base station which may be a base transceiver station BTS NodeB eNodeB etc. The base station may communicate with an access gateway which may include one or more of a controller a gateway a serving gateway SGW a packet data network gateway PGW an evolved packet data gateway ePDG a packet data serving node PDSN a serving GPRS support node SGSN or any similar component or combinations of the features functions provided thereof. Since these structures are well known and or discussed in detail further below certain details have been omitted from in order to focus the descriptions on the most relevant features.

The access gateway may be any logical and or functional component that serves as the primary point of entry and exit of wireless device traffic and or connects the wireless devices to their immediate service provider and or packet data networks PDNs . The access gateway may forward the voice data and control signals to other network components as user data packets provide connectivity to external packet data networks manage and store contexts e.g. network internal routing information etc. and act as an anchor between different technologies e.g. 3GPP and non 3GPP systems . The access gateway may coordinate the transmission and reception of data to and from the Internet as well as the transmission and reception of voice data and control information to and from an external service network the Internet other base stations and to wireless devices .

In various embodiments the base stations and or access gateway may be coupled e.g. via wired or wireless communication links to a dynamic spectrum arbitrage DSA system configured to dynamically manage the availability allocation access and use of various network resources e.g. RF spectrum RF spectrum resources etc. . The DSA system is discussed in detail further below.

In the example illustrated in long term evolution LTE and or evolved universal terrestrial radio access network E UTRAN data transmitted from a wireless device is received by an eNodeB and sent to a serving gateway SGW located within the core network . The eNodeB may send signaling control information e.g. information pertaining to call setup security authentication etc. to a mobility management entity MME . The MME may request user subscription information from a home subscriber server HSS communicate with other MME components perform various administrative tasks e.g. user authentication enforcement of roaming restrictions etc. select a SGW and send authorization and administrative information to the eNodeB and or SGW . Upon receiving the authorization information from the MME e.g. an authentication complete indication an identifier of a selected SGW etc. the eNodeB may send data received from the wireless device to a selected SGW . The SGW may store information about the received data e.g. parameters of the IP bearer service network internal routing information etc. and forward user data packets to a policy control enforcement function PCEF and or packet data network gateway PGW .

The BSC PCU BSC PCF and RNC components may process the GPRS CDMA and UMTS data respectively and send the processed data to a component within the core network . More specifically the BSC PCU and RNC units may send the processed data to a serving GPRS support node SGSN and the BSC PCF may send the processed data to a packet data serving node PDSN and or high rate packet data serving gateway HSGW component PDSN HSGW . The PDSN HSGW may act as a connection point between the radio access network and the IP based PCEF PGW . The SGSN may be responsible for routing the data within a particular geographical service area and send signaling control plane information e.g. information pertaining to call setup security authentication etc. to an MME . The MME may request user and subscription information from a home subscriber server HSS perform various administrative tasks e.g. user authentication enforcement of roaming restrictions etc. select a SGW and send administrative and or authorization information to the SGSN .

The SGSN may send the GPRS UMTS data to a selected SGW in response to receiving authorization information from the MME . The SGW may store information about the data e.g. parameters of the IP bearer service network internal routing information etc. and forward user data packets to the PCEF PGW . The PCEF PGW may send signaling information control plane to a policy control rules function PCRF . The PCRF may access subscriber databases create a set of policy rules and performs other specialized functions e.g. interacts with online offline charging systems application functions etc. . The PCRF may then send the policy rules to the PCEF PGW for enforcement. The PCEF PGW may implement the policy rules to control the bandwidth the quality of service QoS the characteristics of the data and the services being communicated between the service network and the end users.

In the various embodiments any or all of the components discussed above e.g. components may be coupled to or included in a DSA system configured to dynamically manage the availability allocation access and use of telecommunication resources.

In various embodiments the DSC may be included in or coupled to the E UTRAN either as part of its core network or outside of the core network . In an embodiment the DSC may be coupled directly e.g. via wired or wireless communication links to one or more eNodeBs .

The eNodeBs may be configured to communicate with the DSC via the Xe interface reference point. In various embodiments the Xe reference point between DSC and eNodeB may use the DSAAP protocol TR 069 protocol and or TR 192 data model extensions to support listing available resources at the eNodeB and notifying the eNodeB of bid buy confirmations. The DSC may be configured to communicate with the DPC via the Xd interface reference point. The Xd reference point between DSC and DPC may use the DSAAP protocol for dynamic spectrum and resource arbitrage operations. The eNodeBs may be interconnected and configured to communicate via an X2 interface reference point which may also use the DSAAP protocol to communicate information. The eNodeBs may be configured to communicate with components in the core network via the S1 interface. For example the eNodeBs may be connected to an MME via the S1 MME interface and to a SGW via the S1 U interface. The S1 interface may support a many to many relation between the MMEs SGWs and eNodeBs . In embodiment the DPC and or DSC component may also be configured to communicate with a HSS component.

The eNodeBs may be configured to provide user plane e.g. PDCP RLC MAC PHY and control plane RRC protocol terminations towards the wireless device . That is the eNodeBs may act as a bridge e.g. layer bridge between the wireless devices and the core network by serving as the termination point of all radio protocols towards the wireless devices and relaying voice e.g. VoIP etc. data and control signals to network components in the core network . The eNodeBs may also be configured to perform various radio resource management operations such as controlling the usage of radio interfaces allocating resources based on requests prioritizing and scheduling traffic according to various quality of service QoS requirements monitoring the usage of network resources etc. In addition the eNodeBs may be configured to collect radio signal level measurements analyze the collected radio signal level measurements and handover wireless devices or connections to the mobile devices to another base station e.g. a second eNodeB based on the results of the analysis.

The DSC and DPC may be functional components configured to manage the dynamic spectrum arbitrage process for sharing radio frequency and other network resources between different E UTRANs . For example the DPC component may be configured to manage the DSA operations and interactions between multiple E UTRAN networks by communicating with DSCs in the E UTRAN network.

The eNodeB may include a DSC application protocol and congestion monitoring module an inter cell radio resource management RRM module a radio bearer RB control module a connection mobility control module a radio admission control module an eNodeB measurement configuration and provision module and a dynamic resource allocation module . Each of these modules may be implemented in hardware in software or in a combination of hardware and software.

In addition the eNodeB may include various protocol layers including a radio resource control RRC layer a packet data convergence protocol PDCP layer a radio link control RLC layer a medium access control MAC layer and a physical PHY layer . In each of these protocol layers various hardware and or software components may implement functionality that is commensurate with responsibilities assigned to that layer. For example data streams may be received in the physical layer which may include a radio receiver buffers and processing components that perform the operations of demodulating recognizing symbols within the radio frequency RF signal and performing other operations for extracting raw data from the received RF signal.

The DSC may include an eNodeB geographic boundary management module an eNodeB resource and congestion management module a stream control transmission protocol SCTP module a Layer L buffer module and a Layer L buffer module . The DPC may include an eNodeB resource bid management module an inter DSC communication module SCTP DIAMETER module an L buffer module and a L buffer module . The MME may include a non access stratum NAS security module and idle state mobility handling module and an evolved packet system EPS bearer control module . The SGW may include a mobility anchoring module . The PGW may include a UE IP address allocation module and a packet filtering module . Each of these modules may be implemented in hardware in software or in a combination of hardware and software.

The eNodeB may be configured to communicate with the SGW and or MME via the S1 interface protocol. The eNodeB may also be configured to communicate with the DSC via the Xe interface protocol. The DSC may be configured to communicate with the DPC via the Xd interface protocol.

The eNodeB may be configured to perform various operations e.g. via modules layers to provide various functions including functions for radio resource management such as radio bearer control radio admission control connection mobility control dynamic allocation of resources to wireless devices in both uplink and downlink scheduling etc. These functions may also include IP header compression and encryption of user data stream selection of an MME at UE attachment when no routing to an MME can be determined from the information provided by the UE routing of user plane data towards SGW scheduling and transmission of paging messages originated from the MME scheduling and transmission of broadcast information originated from the MME measurement and measurement reporting configuration for mobility and scheduling scheduling and transmission of public warning system e.g. earthquake and tsunami warning system commercial mobile alert service etc. messages originated from the MME closed subscriber group CSG handling and transport level packet marking in the uplink. In an embodiment the eNodeB may be a donor eNodeB DeNB that is configured to perform various operations to provide additional functions such as an S1 X2 proxy functionality S termination and or SGW PGW functionality for supporting relay nodes RNs .

The MME may be configured to perform various operations e.g. via modules to provide various functions including non access stratum NAS signaling NAS signaling security access stratum AS security control inter CN node signaling for mobility between 3GPP access networks idle mode UE reach ability including control and execution of paging retransmission tracking area list management e.g. for a wireless device in idle and active mode PGW and SGW selection MME selection for handovers with MME change SGSN selection for handovers to 2G or 3G 3GPP access networks roaming authentication bearer management functions including dedicated bearer establishment support for public warning system e.g. earthquake and tsunami warning system commercial mobile alert service etc. message transmission and performing paging optimization. The MME module may also communicate various device state and attach detach status information to the DSC. In an embodiment the MME may be configured to not filter paging massages based on the CSG IDs towards macro eNodeBs.

The SGW may be configured to perform various operations e.g. via module to provide various functions including mobility anchoring e.g. for inter 3GPP mobility serving as a local mobility anchor point for inter eNodeB handovers E UTRAN idle mode downlink packet buffering initiation of network triggered service request procedures lawful interception packet routing and forwarding transport level packet marking in the uplink UL and the downlink DL accounting on user and QoS class identifier QCI granularity for inter operator charging uplink UL and the downlink DL charging e.g. per device PDN and or QCI etc.

The PGW may be configured to perform various operations e.g. via modules to provide various functions including per user based packet filtering by e.g. deep packet inspection lawful interception UE IP address allocation transport level packet marking in the uplink and the downlink UL and DL service level charging gating and rate enforcement DL rate enforcement based on APN aggregate maximum bit rate AMBR etc.

The DSC may be configured to perform various operations e.g. via modules to provide various functions including managing resource arbitration operations within a network e.g. PLMN tracking network resource listings tracking current bids in progress tracking executed bids and tracking bid specific closed subscriber group CSG identifiers CSG IDs for mobility management of lessee wireless devices in lessor networks. The DSC may be configured to handover wireless devices from lessee network to lessor network i.e. perform handins and handover wireless devices from lessor network back to lessee network i.e. perform backoff .

The DSC may also be configured to track congestion states of eNodeBs select target eNodeBs for handovers and manage traffic on lessor eNodeBs. The DSC may be configured to offload users based on configured policies e.g. offload lower priority users offload higher priority users offload users with specific QoS etc. from lessee networks to other less loaded eNodeBs within a lessor network. The DSC may also perform backoff operations to handover a wireless device from lessor network back to the lessee network. The DSC may also be configured to monitor manage and or maintain historic congestion information that is collected or received from one or more eNodeBs in the system.

The DPC may be configured to perform various operations e.g. via modules to provide various functions including functioning as a resource arbitrage broker between the DSCs of lessor and lessee networks e.g. PLMNs listing resources from various lessor networks for auction and managing the auction process. The DPC may be configured to send notifications of outbid bid win bid cancel and bid withdrawal and bid expiry to DSCs install bid specific charging rules in the online and or offline charging systems of lessee and lessor networks and coordinate resource usage between DSCs by acting as gateway between lessee and lessor DSCs .

The DSCs may be configured to communicate with the DPC via Xd interface. The DSCs may also be connected directly or indirectly to various network components in their respective core networks such as a PCRF HSS and a PCEF PGW not illustrated in . In an embodiment one or more of the DSCs may be connected directly to one or more of the eNodeBs 

In addition to the above mentioned connections and communication links the system may include additional connections links to accommodate data flows and communications between components in different E UTRANs e.g. E UTRANS and . For example the system may include a connection communication link between an eNodeB in the second E UTRAN to an SGW in the first E UTRAN . As another example the system may include a connection communication link between a SGW in the second E UTRAN to a PGW in the first E UTRAN . To focus the discussion of the relevant embodiments these additional components connections and communication links are not illustrated in .

As is discussed in detail further below the DSCs may be configured to send information regarding the availability of spectrum resources e.g. information received from an eNodeB PCRF PCEF PGW etc. to the DPC . This information may include data relating to current and expected future usage and or capacity of each network or sub network. The DPC may be configured to receive and use such information to intelligently allocate transfer manage coordinate or lease the available resources of the first E UTRAN to the second E UTRAN and vice versa.

For example the DPC may be configured to coordinate the allocation of spectrum resources to the second E UTRAN i.e. lessee network from the E UTRAN i.e. lessor network as part of the dynamic spectrum arbitrage operations. Such operations may allow a wireless device that is wirelessly connected to the eNodeB in the second E UTRAN via a communication link to be handed off to an eNodeB in the first E UTRAN so that it may use the allocated spectrum resources of the first E UTRAN . As part of this handoff procedure the wireless device may establish a new connection to the eNodeB in the first E UTRAN terminate the wireless connection to the original eNodeB and use the allocated resources of the first E UTRAN as if they are included in the second E UTRAN . The DSA operations may be performed so that the first DSC is a lessor DSC for a first resource period of time and a lessee DSC for a second resource or another period of time.

In an embodiment the DSA and or handoff operations may be performed so that the wireless device maintains a data connection to or a data connection that is managed by the original network after it is handed off. For example DSA and or handoff operations may be performed so that the wireless device maintains a dataflow connection to a PGW in the second E UTRAN after being handed off to the eNodeB in the first E UTRAN

In block the DPC may establish a first communication link to a first DSC in a first communication network e.g. E UTRAN etc. . In block the DPC may establish a second communication link to a second DSC in a second communication network. In block the DPC may determine whether radio frequency RF spectrum resources are available for allocation within the second communication network. This may be accomplished by using the DSAAP protocol to communicate with a DSC in the second communication network via the second communication link which may be a wired or wireless communication link. In block the DPC may determine the amount of RF spectrum resources that are available for allocation. In block the DPC may perform various operations to allocate all or a portion of the available RF resources of the second communication network for access and use by wireless devices in the first communication network.

In block the DPC may send a communication message to the first DSC e.g. by using the DSAAP protocol to inform the first communication network that the use of the allocated RF spectrum resources may begin. In block the DPC may record a transaction in a transaction database identifying an amount of RF spectrum resources allocated for use by the first communication network.

In block the DPC may receive a communication message from the second DSC that includes information indicating that the allocated resources have been consumed and or requesting that the allocated resources be released. In block the DPC may send a resource consumed release message to the first DSC to cause the first network to terminate its use of the allocated resources.

In operation a processing core in a DPC component may receive a request for resources communication message from a first DSC component in a first network e.g. E UTRAN etc. . It should be understood that the request for resources communication message and all other communication messages discussed in this application may be DSAAP messages.

The request for resources communication message may include information suitable for informing the DPC that the first network is interested in purchasing leasing accessing and or using resources from other networks. The request for resources communication message may also include information suitable for identifying the types and or amounts of resources e.g. RF spectrum resources etc. that are requested by the first network the types and capabilities of the wireless devices to which the requested resources will be allocated and other similar information.

In operations and the DPC may generate and send a resource inquiry communication message to each of a second DSC component in a second network a third DSC component in a third network and a fourth DSC component in a fourth network respectively. The DPC may be configured to generate the resource inquiry communication messages to include various component device and resource requirements criteria and information. For example the DPC may generate a resource inquiry communication message to include information identifying the types capabilities and geographic criteria of user wireless devices in the first network and other networks to which resources are to be allocated. The geographic criteria may include a geographic location a geographic polygon and or license area for a user wireless device to which resources will be allocated.

In operations and the DPC may receive resource inquiry response communication messages from the second and third DSCs . These resource inquiry response communication messages may include information identifying the availability of excess resources that comply with the requirements criteria included in the resource inquiry messages. In operation the DPC may receive another resource inquiry response communication message from the fourth DSC . This resource inquiry response communication messages may include information indicating that the fourth network does not include resources that meet the requested requirements criteria.

In an embodiment as part of operations the DPC may update a database record to identify the second and third networks as having resources available for allocation and or to identify the fourth network as not including such resources.

In operation the DPC may generate and send a resource availability communication message to a plurality of DSCs in a plurality of networks including the first DSC in the first network. The DPC may be configured to generate the resource availability communication message to include information that is suitable for informing the networks that resources are available for allocation. In an embodiment the DPC may be configured to inform the networks that resources are available for allocation by broadcasting a communication signal that includes information suitable for informing the networks that resources are available for allocation via auction and or an auction start time for the auction.

In operation the DPC may receive a resource reservation request communication message from the first DSC . The received resource reservation request communication message may include information suitable for informing the DPC that the first network intends to participate in the auction and or bid on at least a portion of the available resources.

In operations and the DPC may send the resource reservation request communication message to the second and third DSCs respectively. The resource reservation request communication message may include information suitable for causing the second and third DSCs to reserve all or a portion of their available resources for allocation and use by other networks.

In operations and the DPC may receive a resource reservation response communication message from each of the second and third DSCs . The resource reservation response messages may include information suitable for informing the DPC that the requested resources that have been reserved and or information suitable for identifying the reserved resources.

Optionally in operation block the DPC may pool the reserved resources for allocation and use by wireless devices in other networks e.g. the first network . For example the DPC may combine a block of spectrum reserved in the second network with a block of spectrum reserved in the third network. As another example the DPC may pool the resources available in the first and fourth channels of a block of spectrum reserved in the second network.

In operation the DPC may receive resource bid communication messages from a plurality of networks including from the first DSC in the first network. Each resource bid communication message may include a bid or offer for accessing using leasing and or purchasing a resource as well as other related bid information e.g. price requested allocation access methods etc. . As part of operation the DPC may determine whether the received resource bids comply with the policies and rules of the DSA system and or with requirements set forth by the networks offering the resources for allocation e.g. meet the minimum asking price etc. .

In operation the DPC may accept the bid offer from the first network in response to determining that the resource bid received from the first network complies with the policies rules of the DSA system and with requirements set forth by the resource offering network e.g. offers a monetary amount for the use of all or a portion of the resources in the pool of available resources that is greater than or equal to a minimum amount specified by the second network . Also in operation the DPC may generate and send a bid acceptance communication message to the first DSC

In operation the DPC may allocate the resources of the second network for access and used by wireless devices in the first network by sending an assign resources request communication message to the second DSC . That is in operation the DPC may determine that the portion of the resources e.g. in the pool of available resources won by the first DSC are fully available via the second network and in response only send the assign resources request message to the second network.

In operation the DPC may receive a resources allocated communication message from the second DSC . In operation the DPC may send the resources allocated communication message to the first DSC to inform the first network that the resources have been allocated for access and used by its wireless devices and or that the use of the allocated resources may begin. In operation block the DPC may record a transaction in a transaction database identifying these resources as being allocated for access and use by the first network.

In operation the DPC may receive a release resources communication message from the second DSC that includes information indicating that the allocated resources have been consumed and or information suitable for requesting that the allocated resources be released. In operation the DPC may send a resource consumed release message to the first DSC to cause the first network to terminate its use of the allocated resources.

With reference to in block a first DSC in a first network may monitor user traffic e.g. call and data traffic etc. as compared to the total spectrum resources available to the first network. In block the first DSC may generate a resource status report based on a result of its monitoring record store the resource status report in memory and send a resource status report to the DPC via a resources status report communication message. In determination block the first DSC may determine based on the received resource status reports whether additional resources are required and or whether there is a high probability that additional resources will be required in the near future to provide adequate service to the existing wireless devices in the first network. In response to determining that additional resources are required i.e. determination block Yes in block the first DSC may send a request for resources communication message to the DPC . In response to determining that additional resources are not required i.e. determination block No the first DSC may continue monitoring user traffic and or perform other DSC operations in block .

In block a second DSC in a second network may monitor user traffic as compared to the total spectrum resources available to the second network generate resource status reports and or perform any or all of the DSC operations discussed in this application. In determination block the second DSC may determine whether there is an excess amount of resources available in the second network. In response to determining that there are no excess resources available in the second network i.e. determination block No in block the second DSC may continue monitoring user traffic and or performing other DSC operations.

In response to determining that there is an excess amount of resources available in the second network i.e. determination block Yes in block the second DSC may mark designate or allocate all or portions of its excess resources for access and use by other networks e.g. the first network etc. . In block the second DSC may generate a resource allocation report and send the generated resource allocation report to the DPC e.g. via a resource communication message . The DSC may be configured to generate the resource allocation report to include information identifying the resources or portions or amounts of resources that are available for allocation and or that have been marked designated or allocated by the second network.

In block the DPC may receive various resource status and allocation reports from DSCs in many different networks including the first and second DSCs in the first and second networks. These reports may include information identifying various characteristics criteria requirements and conditions of the networks and their components such as the ratio of the detected user traffic to the total available spectrum resources the amount of resources that are required by a network the amount of resources that are available for allocation in a network the types and capabilities of the wireless devices that will use the allocated resources system requirements that must be met before the wireless devices access the allocated resources network rules and policies with respect to access and use of resources and other similar information.

In block the DPC may store the received reports e.g. resource status reports resource allocation reports etc. in memory e.g. a non volatile memory . In block the DPC may receive a request for resources from DSCs in different networks including the first DSC in the first network. In block the DPC may use the received stored information e.g. information received in requests for resources resource allocation reports resource status reports etc. to identify and select the most suitable best available network from which the first network may lease or purchase additional resources. In the example illustrated in the DPC identifies and selects the second network as the most suitable network to provide resources to the first network.

In block the DPC may send a resource inquiry communication message to the second DSC . In block the second DSC may receive the resource inquiry communication message. In block the second DSC may determine the availability amounts and or quantity of the excess resources that are marked designated or allocated by the second network. In block the second DSC may generate and send a resource inquiry response communication message to the DPC . The second DSC may generate resource inquiry response to include information suitable for use in identifying the availability and quantity of the resources that are marked designated or allocated for access and use by other networks e.g. the first network . In block the DPC may receive the resources inquiry response communication message from the second DSC and in response perform the operations of determination block illustrated in .

With reference to in determination block the DPC may determine whether resources are available based on the data e.g. resources inquiry response message received from the second DSC in the second network. For example the DPC may determine that the identified resources are not available in response to determining that all or a portion of the resources were purchased or won by other bidders before they were reserved.

In response to determining that the resources are not available i.e. determination block No in block the DPC may send a no resources available communication message to the first DSC in the first network. In block the first DSC may receive the no resources available communication message. In block the first DSC may search e.g. via the DPC for other available resources request resources from a different network request different resources terminate connections or communication sessions with users to free up resources or perform other similar operations to manage network traffic and congestion in the first network.

In response to determining that the resources are available i.e. determination block Yes in block the DPC may send a resources available communication message to the first DSC . The resources available message may include information that may be used by the first DSC to determine the quality and quantity of resources in the second network that may be used by wireless devices in the first network.

In block the first DSC may receive the resources available communication message sent from the DPC . In block the first DSC may determine the amount quantity of resources that the first network requires and or will attempt to acquire and send this and other resource information to the DPC in a request resources communication message.

In block the DPC may receive the request resources message from the first DSC . In block the DPC may use information included in received message to generate and send a reserve resources request communication message to the second DSC in the second network.

In block the second DSC may receive the reserve resource request message from the DPC . In block the second DSC may use the information included in the received reserve resources request message to reserve the requested quantity of allocated resources for access and use by components in other networks. In block the second DSC may send a resource reserved communication message to the DPC to confirm that the requested quantity of resources has been reserved and or to identify the reserved resources.

In block the DPC may receive the resource reserved communication message from the second DSC . In block the DPC may offer the reserved resources for auction and or begin accepting resource bids on the reserved resources.

With reference to in block the first DSC in the first network may negotiate access to the reserved resources of second network by sending a resource bid e.g. via a communication message to the DPC . In block the DPC may receive the resource bid from the first DSC

In determination block the DPC may determine whether the received resource bid is to be accepted which may be accomplished by determining whether the resource bid complies with the policies and rules of the DSA system and the requirements of the second network e.g. is greater than a minimum amount etc. . In response to determining that the resource bid received from the first DSC is to be accepted i.e. determination block Yes in block the DPC may send an accept bid communication message to the first DSC . In block the first DSC may receive the accept bid message and wait to receive resource access instructions. In block the DPC may send an assign resources communication message to the second DSC in the second network.

In block the second DSC may receive the assign resources communication message from the DPC . In block the second DSC may use the information included in the received assign resources message to assign all or portions of its reserved resources for access and use by components in the first network. In block the second DSC may generate a resources access communication message that includes information e.g. access parameters etc. that may be used by a wireless device i.e. in the first network to access the assigned resources and the send the resources access message to the DPC . In block the second DSC may perform various operations to prepare for establishing a communication session link to wireless device in the first network such as by configuring or preparing to receive a voice or data call.

In block the DPC may receive the resources access communication message from the second DSC and relay the resources access message to the first DSC . In block the first DSC may receive the resources access message from the DPC . The received resource access message may include access parameters that may be used by the wireless devices to access the allocated resources of the second network. In block the first DSC may send access parameters to wireless devices that have communication sessions with the first network and or to the wireless devices that the first network has designated marked for migration to other networks.

In block the wireless devices may receive the access parameters of second network from the first DSC . In blocks and the wireless devices and or second DSC may perform various operations to establish a communication session link between the wireless devices and the second network. The second DSC may then perform the operations of block illustrated in and discussed further below.

As mentioned above in determination block the DPC may determine whether the resource bid received from the first DSC is to be accepted. In response to determining that the resource bid received from the first DSC is not to be accepted i.e. determination block No the DPC may perform the operations of block illustrated in .

With reference to in block the DPC may send a rejected bid communication message to the first DSC . In block the first DSC may receive the rejected bid message from the DPC . In determination block the first DSC may determine whether the first network will should rebid for the resources. In response to determining that the first network will should rebid for the resources i.e. determination block Yes in block the first DSC may send a new resource bid e.g. in a resource bid communication message to the DPC .

In block the DPC may receive the new resource bid or rebid from the first DSC . In determination block the DPC may determine whether to accept the new resource bid such as by determining whether the new resource bid complies with the policies and rules of the DSA system and the requirements of the second network. In response to determining that the new resource bid is to be accepted i.e. determination block Yes the DPC may perform the operations of block illustrated in . In response to determining that the new resource bid is to not be accepted i.e. determination block No the DPC may perform the operations of block .

In response to determining that the first network should rebid for the resources i.e. determination block No in block the first DSC may send a cancel resource request communication message to the DPC . In block the DPC may receive the cancel resource request message from the first DSC . In block the DPC may send a release of resources communication message to the second DSC

In block the second DSC may receive the release of resources message from the DPC . In block the second DSC may release the reserved resources so that they may be used by other networks. The second DSC may then report the status of the allocated resources to DPC which may be accomplished by performing the operations of block which is illustrated in and discussed above.

In block the second DSC may send invoices and payment instructions relating to the use of allocated resources by the first network to the DPC . In block the DPC may relay the received invoice and payment instructions to the first DSC . In block the first DSC may receive the invoices and payment instructions and settle the charges with the second network in block .

Optionally or alternatively in block the second DSC may send usage parameters and payment instructions to the DPC . In block the DPC may receive the usage parameters and payment instructions from the second DSC . In block the DPC may create an invoice for the access and use of the resources. In block the DPC may send the invoice to the first DSC in the first network. In block the first DSC may receive the invoice and payment instructions and perform various operations to settle the charges with second network in block .

In the various embodiments the DPC and DSC components may be configured to communicate via an interface which may be implemented in or provided via a dynamic spectrum arbitrage application part DSAAP protocol module component that is defined over the Xe and or Xd reference points. The DSAAP may allow facilitate support or augment communications between the DPC and DSC so as to improve the efficiency and speed of the DSA system and telecommunication network. In various embodiments all or portions of the DSAAP module component may be included in a DPC component a DSC component in a component that is independent of the DPC and DSC components or any combination thereof. The DSAAP module component may allow these and other DSA components to communicate information using the DSAAP protocol.

For example the DSAAP may allow the DPC and DSC components to communicate specific information and or perform operations that together provide various functions including a DSC registration function resource availability advertisement function bidding and allocation of resources functions handing off lessee users to lessor network function backoff from lessor networks function error handling function e.g. reporting of general error situations for which function specific error messages are not defined etc. DSC de registration function error indication function DSC bidding success and failure indication functions and DSC resource allocation withdrawal function. In various embodiments these functions may be provided implemented or accomplished by configuring the DPC and or DSC components to perform one or a combination of the DSAAP methods discussed below with reference to . Using the DSAAP protocol and performing the DSAAP methods may include communicating via one or more DSAAP messages.

In various embodiments the DSAAP messages used to communicate information between the DSC and DPC may include a DSC REGISTER REQUEST message DSC REGISTER ACCEPT message DSC REGISTER REJECT message DSC DE REGISTER message DSC RESOURCE REGISTER REQUEST message DSC RESOURCE REGISTER ACCEPT message DSC RESOURCE REGISTER REJECT message AVAILABLE BIDS REQUEST message AVAILABLE BIDS RESPONSE message AVAILABLE BIDS REJECT message DSC BID REQUEST message DSC BID ACCEPT message DSC BID REJECT message DSC BID OUTBID message DSC BID WON message DSC BID LOST message DSC BID CANCELLED message DSC BUY REQUEST message DSC BUY ACCEPT message DSC BUY REJECT message DSC RESOURCES ALLOCATED message DSC RESOURCES WITHDRAWN message and or DSC BACKOFF COMMAND message. Each of these messages may include or may be associated with criticality information presence information range information and assigned criticality information. These messages and their contents are discussed in detail further below.

In various embodiments the DSAAP methods may be performed in a DSA system that includes a first DSC server in a first telecommunication network e.g. a lessee network a second DSC server in second telecommunication network e.g. a lessor network and a DPC server that is outside of the first and second telecommunication networks. The first DSC may include first DSC processor coupled to the DPC via a first communication link and the second DSC may include a second DSC processor coupled to the DPC via a second communication link. The second DSC may be coupled to an eNodeB in the second telecommunication network via third communication link. The first and second communication links may be defined over the Xd interface and the third communication link is defined over the Xe interface.

In operation illustrated in the DSC may initiate DSAAP registration method by generating and sending a DSC REGISTER REQUEST message to the DPC . In an embodiment the DSC may be configured to generate and or send the DSC REGISTER REQUEST message in response to determining that it requires services from the DPC . For example the DSC may be configured to generate the DSC REGISTER REQUEST message in response to determining that its corresponding network i.e. the network represented by the DSC includes excess resources that may be allocated to other networks. As another example the DSC may be configured to generate the DSC REGISTER REQUEST message in response to determining that its network requires additional resources to provide adequate service to its existing wireless devices in view of the current or expected future user traffic network congestion etc.

In various embodiments the DSC may be configured to generate the DSC REGISTER REQUEST message to include any or all of a message type information element IE a message ID IE a DSC identity IE a DSC Internet protocol IP address IE a DSC type IE a DSC PLMN ID IE PLMN type IE and DSC resource update timer IE. The DSC PLMN ID IE may include a PLMN ID that is suitable for use in identifying the network e.g. E UTRAN that is associated with or represented by the DSC . The PLMN type IE may include information that is suitable for use in determining the type of network e.g. public safety commercial etc. that is represented by the DSC . The DSC IP address IE may include the IP address of a DSC that is responsible for managing maintaining or providing the XE interface of the DSAAP.

In operation block illustrated in the DPC may perform various registration operations i.e. authenticating the DSC storing DSC identifier information in memory etc. to register the DSC with the DPC . In an embodiment as part of these registration operations the DPC may overwrite override an existing registration with a new registration such as in response to receiving a duplicate DSC REGISTER REQUEST message i.e. for an already registered DSC identified by the same unique DSC identity .

In operation block illustrated in the DPC may determine that the registration operations were successful. In operation the DPC may generate and send a DSC REGISTER ACCEPT message to the DSC to indicate the acceptance and registration of the DSC . In various embodiments the DPC may generate the DSC REGISTER ACCEPT message to include any or all of a message type information element IE a message ID IE a DPC ID IE a XEh signaling transport network layer TNL address IE and a tunneling information IE. The XEh signaling TNL address IE may include an address value that is suitable for use in establishing to transport layer session. The tunneling information IE may include information that may used to encapsulate a different payload protocol establish a secured communication through an untrusted or unverified network carry a payload over an incompatible delivery network and or to perform other similar tunneling operations.

To support XEh connectivity via to the DPC in operation block the DSC may use the address value included in the XEh signaling TNL address IE of the DSC REGISTER ACCEPT message establish a transport layer session. In an embodiment the DSC may be configured to establish the transport layer session in response to determining that the DSC REGISTER ACCEPT message includes an address value in the XEh signaling TNL address information element. In an embodiment the DSC may be configured to determine that the XEh connectivity via to the DPC is not supported or not required in response to determining that the XEh signaling TNL address information element is not present null empty or not valid.

With reference to in operation block the DPC may determine that the registration operations performed as part of operation failed. The DPC may determine that registration failed in response to detecting any of a variety of conditions events including the failure to authenticate or authorize the DSC network or component overload DSC parameter mismatch etc. In operation the DPC may generate and send a DSC REGISTER REJECT message to the DSC to inform the DSC that the registration failed and or that the DPC cannot register the DSC . In various embodiments the DPC may generate the DSC REGISTER REJECT message to include any or all of a message type information element IE a message ID IE a cause IE a criticality diagnostics IE and a backoff timer IE. The cause IE may include information suitable for identifying a specific reason for the failure e.g. overloaded etc. or for indicating that the reason for the failure is not known or is unspecified.

In operation block the DSC may perform various registration failure response operations based on the information included in the received REGISTER REJECT message. For example the DSC may wait for a duration indicated in the backoff timer IE of the received REGISTER REJECT message before reattempting registration with that same DPC in response to determining that the value of the cause IE in the received REGISTER REJECT message is set to overload. 

With reference to in operation block the DSC may start a register response timer in response to sending a DSC REGISTER REQUEST message to the DPC e.g. as part of operation . In operation block the DSC may determine that the register response timer expired before the DSC received a DSC REGISTER RESPONSE message. In operation the DSC may resend the DSC REGISTER REQUEST message to the DPC in response to determining that the timer expired before it received a corresponding DSC REGISTER RESPONSE message. In operation block the DSC may restart or reset the register response timer. In operation the DPC may send a DSC REGISTER RESPONSE message to the DSC . In operation block the DSC may stop the register response timer in response to receiving the DSC REGISTER RESPONSE message.

In operation block illustrated in the DSC may determine that there are resources available for allocation within cells serviced by that DSC . In operation block the DSC may generate and send a DSC RESOURCE REGISTER REQUEST message to the DPC . In various embodiments the DSC may generate the DSC RESOURCE REGISTER REQUEST message to include any or all of a message type information element IE a message ID IE a DSC identity IE a DSC type IE a PLMN ID list IE resource availability IE resource availability start time IE a data bandwidth IE a list of grids IE a bid or buy IE a minimum bid amount IE resource availability end time IE a time of the day IE a time duration IE megabits per second MBPS IE and a cell identity IE.

The DSC identity IE may include information that may be used by the DPC to determine the identity of DSC . For example the DSC identity IE may include a DSC pool ID DSC instance information and a PLMN ID of the network that the DSC is managing or representing. The DSC pool ID may be a unique identifier of a pool of available resources and or may be the same as or similar to MME pool IDs and MME IDs in 3GPP EPC architecture.

The message ID IE may include a message identifier for the specific DSC RESOURCE REGISTER REQUEST message sent from the DSC . The DSC and DPC may be configured to use the message ID IE as a sequence number to identify and correlate DSC RESOURCE REGISTER REQUEST DSC RESOURCE REGISTER ACCEPT and or DSC RESOURCE REGISTER REJECT messages.

The resource availability IE may include information suitable for use by the DPC in determining the PLMN ID of the network that is advertising resources for allocation and use by other networks. The DPC may be configured to receive store and or maintain resource availability IEs for multiple DSCs and or for multiple different networks i.e. different PLMN IDs . As such each resource availability IE may include information suitable for identifying one or more of the networks that are advertising resources.

The time of the day IE may include information suitable for use by the DPC in determining the time of the day that the DSC transmitted the DSC RESOURCE REGISTER REQUEST message. The time duration IE may include information that is suitable for use in determining a time period during which the resources are to be made available for bidding or buying.

The data bandwidth IE may include information suitable for use in determining the available bandwidth e.g. in MBPS for the time duration specified in the optional time duration IE. The DPC may determine that the bandwidth specified in the MBPS IE is to be made available until that bandwidth is consumed by the winning bidder or buyer in response to determining that the time duration IE is not included in the received DSC RESOURCE REGISTER REQUEST message or in response to determining that the time duration IE does not include a valid value .

The list of grids IE may include information suitable for use in determining grid identifiers for the locations of the network bandwidth that is to be made available for bidding or buying. The cell identity IE may include information suitable for use in determining the individual cells within each grid identified by grid ID and cell ID that have available resources offered for bidding or buying as part of the offer in the DSC RESOURCE REGISTER REQUEST message. The minimum bid amount IE may include a monetary amount in a denomination or currency such as in United States Dollars USD .

In operation block illustrated in the DPC may accept the DSC s resources for bidding. In operation the DPC may generate and send a DSC RESOURCE REGISTER RESPONSE or DSC RESOURCE REGISTER ACCEPT message to the DSC to acknowledge that the resources were accepted. In various embodiments the DPC may generate the DSC RESOURCE REGISTER message to include any or all of a message type information element IE a bid ID IE and a message ID IE. The message ID IE may include the same message identifier value that is included in the received DSC RESOURCE REGISTER REQUEST message. The DPC and or DSC may be configured to use the value of the message ID IE to identify and correlate the DSC RESOURCE REGISTER REQUEST and DSC RESOURCE REGISTER ACCEPT messages. In operation block the DPC may store organize and or make the network resources available for bidding or buying via the financial brokerage platform.

In operation illustrated in the DPC may reject the DSC RESOURCE REGISTER REQUEST message and or reject for bidding the resources identified in the received DSC RESOURCE REGISTER REQUEST message. The DPC may reject the message resources for a variety of reasons and or in response to detecting any of a variety of events or conditions. For example the DPC may reject the resources in response to determining that the DPC is not accepting resources from any operator is not accepting resources for the specific operator identified in the received message is not accepting the resources identified in the message that the DPC is overloaded that there is insufficient memory to store and service the resources available for bidding etc. The DPC may also reject the resource available message in response to determining that an administrator of the DPC has disabled further bidding from the specific PLMN ID included in the DSC RESOURCE REGISTER REQUEST message from all the networks e.g. all the PLMN IDs etc.

In operation illustrated in the DPC may generate and send a DSC RESOURCE REGISTER REJECT message to the DSC . In various embodiments the DPC may generate the DSC RESOURCE REGISTER REJECT message to include any or all of a message type information element IE a message ID IE a cause IE and a criticality diagnostics IE. The DPC may also generate the DSC RESOURCE REGISTER REJECT message to include a message ID IE that includes a value that is the same as the message identifier included in the DSC RESOURCE REGISTER REQUEST message received from DSC . The DPC and or DSC may be configured to use the value of the message ID IE to identify and correlate the DSC RESOURCE REGISTER REQUEST and DSC RESOURCE REGISTER REJECT messages.

In operation block the DSC may perform various resource registration failure response operations based on information included in the received DSC RESOURCE REGISTER REJECT message. For example the DSC may use the information included in the DSC RESOURCE REGISTER REJECT message to determine whether to reattempt resource registration with the DPC attempt to register the resources with another DPC reattempt the registration with different resources or perform any of the other DSC operations discussed in this application.

In operation illustrated in a lessee DSC may generate and send an AVAILABLE BIDS REQUEST message to the DPC to request information on the resource bids that are available for allocation from lessor network s for bidding or buying. In various embodiments the lessee DSC may generate the AVAILABLE BIDS REQUEST message to include any or all of a sequence number information element IE a message type IE a PLMN list IE that includes one or more PLMN ID IEs a grid ID list IE that includes one or more Grid ID IEs.

In an embodiment the lessee DSC may be configured to request specific resources from a specific network by generating the AVAILABLE BIDS REQUEST message to include the PLMN ID of the desired network which may be included in the PLMN ID IE of the PLMN list IE in the AVAILABLE BIDS REQUEST message.

In an embodiment the lessee DSC may be configured to request resources from any available network by not populating the PLMN list IE in the generated AVAILABLE BIDS REQUEST message and or by generating the AVAILABLE BIDS REQUEST message to not include a PLMN list IE and or PLMN ID value.

In an embodiment the lessee DSC may be configured to request resources from a specific grid within a lessor network by generating the AVAILABLE BIDS REQUEST message to include the grid IDs of the desired grids which may be included in the grid ID IE of the grid ID list IE in the AVAILABLE BIDS REQUEST message.

In an embodiment the lessee DSC may be configured to request resources from any or all grids within a specified PLMN ID in PLMN ID IE grid by not populating the grid ID list IE in the generated AVAILABLE BIDS REQUEST message and or by generating the AVAILABLE BIDS REQUEST message to not include a grid ID.

In operation block illustrated in the DPC may determine whether the PLMN ID s and grid ID s included in the received AVAILABLE BIDS REQUEST message are valid. If the PLMN ID s and grid ID s are incorrect in operation block the DPC may determine a reason code for the error incorrect values. In operation block the DPC may determine whether there are resources bids available for each grid identified in the received AVAILABLE BIDS REQUEST message or for all the available grids e.g. when the grid ID list IE in the received AVAILABLE BIDS REQUEST message not include valid values .

In operation illustrated in the DPC may generate and send an AVAILABLE BIDS RESPONSE message to the DSC . The DPC may be configured to generate the AVAILABLE BIDS RESPONSE message to include any or all of a message type information element IE a message ID IE a DSC identity IE a PLMN ID grid cell bid info list IE a sequence number IE a PLMN list IE that includes one or more PLMN ID IEs and a grid list IE. In an embodiment the PLMN list IE and grid list IE may be included in the PLMN ID grid cell bid info list IE. In an embodiment the grid list IE may include one or more cell ID list IEs that include one or more cell ID IEs.

In various embodiments the DPC may generate the AVAILABLE BIDS RESPONSE message to also include any or all of an absolute radio frequency channel number ARFCN IE a channel bandwidth IE a megabit or megabyte IE for identifying total available bandwidth a MBPS IE for identifying the peak data rate for the resource a resource available time IE a resource expiration time IE a bid buy IE a bid buy expiry time IE a minimum bid amount IE and a buy price IE. The DPC may generate the AVAILABLE BIDS RESPONSE message to include such information for each PMLN each resource each grid and or each cell identified in the message.

In an embodiment the DPC may be configured to generate the AVAILABLE BIDS RESPONSE message to include the list of PLMN ID lists of grid ID s within each PLMN and the available resources bids within each grid in response to determining that there are bids for resources available for auction.

In an embodiment the DPC may be configured to generate the AVAILABLE BIDS RESPONSE message to include the message type and sequence number IEs or valid values for these IEs in response to determining that there no resources bids for resources available for auction by that DPC for the relevant networks PLMN IDs. In an embodiment the DPC may be configured to generate the AVAILABLE BIDS RESPONSE message to include a sequence number IE having the same value as in the sequence number IE included in the received AVAILABLE BIDS REQUEST message. In an embodiment the DSC may be configured to use the sequence number IEs in these request and response messages to correlate the messages.

In an embodiment the DPC may be configured to generate the AVAILABLE BIDS RESPONSE message to include a PLMN list IE that includes a PLMN ID and grid ID list IE. The grid ID list IE may include a list of cells available for auction within the grid. The cell ID list IE may include a cell ID and for each cell the ARFCN channel bandwidth total available bandwidth peak data rate allowed the time of day e.g. in UTC when the resources are available and when they expire end whether it s a bid or buy type auction minimum bid amount or buy price bid expiry time e.g. in UTC and other similar information.

In operation block the DSC may use the information included in the AVAILABLE BIDS RESPONSE message to identify the resources that are available for bidding determine whether the DSC will submit a bid for the available resources determine the resources for which the DSC will submit bids and or perform other similar operations.

With reference to in operation the DPC may reject the AVAILABLE BIDS REQUEST message received from lessee DSC by generating and sending a AVAILABLE BIDS REJECT message to the DSC . The DPC may be configured to reject the AVAILABLE BIDS REQUEST message in response to determining e.g. as part of operation or that one or more of the PLMN IDs supplied in the request message is not from any of the known networks that one or more of the Grid IDs supplied in the request message is not valid with respect to the supplied PLMN ID and or that there are no resources bids available in the relevant grids.

In an embodiment the DPC may be configured to generate the AVAILABLE BIDS REJECT message to include a message type information element IE a message ID IE a cause IE a criticality diagnostics IE and a sequence number IE. The cause IE may include a reason code e.g. Invalid PLMN ID Invalid Grid ID etc. for the rejection of the available bids request which may be determined in operation block . The sequence number IE may include the same sequence number value that was included in the AVAILABLE BIDS REQUEST message received from lessee DSC . As such the DPC and or DSC may be configured to use sequence number IEs in the request and response messages to correlate those messages.

In operation block the DSC may use the information included in the received AVAILABLE BIDS REJECT message to perform various failure response operations. For example the DSC may determine whether to send another AVAILABLE BIDS REQUEST message to the DPC determine whether to send another AVAILABLE BIDS REQUEST message to a different DPC etc.

In an embodiment the DSC and or DPC may be configured to perform DSAAP method after the DSC retrieves the list of resources that are available for bidding e.g. after performing DSAAP method . In various embodiments the DSC and or DPC may be configured to perform DSAAP method continuously or repeatedly until the expiration of a bidding time. In an embodiment the DPC may be configured to select a winning bid i.e. bid highest bid value at the expiry of a bidding time.

In operation of method illustrated in the lessee DSC may generate and send a DSC BID REQUEST message to the DPC to bid for one or more of the resource that are determined to be available from a lessor network i.e. one or more of resources included the list of resources obtained via the performance of method . The lessee DSC may be configured to generate the DSC BID REQUEST message to include any or all of a message type information element IE a message ID IE a DSC identity IE a DSC type IE bid ID IE a PLMN ID IE and a bid amount IE. The bid ID IE may include information suitable for identifying a specific resource for which the lessee DSC places a bid. The PLMN ID IE may include information suitable for use in identifying the PLMN ID of the network associated with the resources identified in the bid ID IE. The bid amount IE may include a monitory amount in a currency e.g. USD or the bid value.

In an embodiment the lessee DSC may be configured to generate the DSC BID REQUEST message to include a bid amount IE value that is greater than a minimum bid amount specified in a bid listing for the specific resource bid ID. In an embodiment the lessee DSC may be configured to obtain the minimum bid amount and or bid listing from the received AVAILABLE BIDS RESPONSE message e.g. the message sent as part of operation illustrated in .

In operation block illustrated in the DPC may use the information included in the received DSC BID REQUEST message to determine whether the bid resource bid is valid and is to be accepted such as by determining whether the bid complies with the policies and rules of the DSA system and the requirements of the lessor network. In operation the DPC may generate and send DSC BID ACCEPT message to the DSC in response to determining that the bid is valid and or is to be accepted. The DPC may be configured to generate the DSC BID ACCEPT message to include any or all of a message type information element IE a message ID IE a bid ID IE and other information suitable for informing the DSC that the bid has been determined to be valid and or has been accepted.

It should be noted that in the example discussed above the DSC BID ACCEPT message informs the DSC that the bid is valid accepted not that lessee DSC has won the bid. The winning lessee DSC may be informed via DSC BID WON message when the DPC determines that the bid time has expired and that lessee DSC is the highest bidder at the time of bid expiry. Similarly the DPC may inform lessee DSC s who participated in the bidding process but submitted losing bids that they did not submit a winning bid via a DSC BID LOST message. The DSC BID WON message and DSC BID LOST message are discussed in more detail further below.

With reference to in operation block the DPC may use the information included in the received DSC BID REQUEST message to determine that the bid is not valid and is not to be accepted. For example the DPC may use the received information to determine that the bid does not comply with the policies rules of the DSA system and or does not comply with the requirements of the lessor network e.g. does not meet the minimum asking price etc. . As further examples the DPC may be configured to determine that the bid is not valid or is not to be accepted in response to determining that the bid amount specific in bid amount IE in the BID REQUEST message is not higher than the minimum bid that the bid amount is not the highest among currently offered bids that the bid id included in the bid ID IE is invalid or that the bid resource is no longer available for bidding e.g. due to expiry end of auction bid withdrawn or invalid bid id .

In operation the DPC may generate and send a DSC BID REJECT message to the DSC . The DPC may be configured to generate the DSC BID REJECT message to include any or all of a message type information element IE a message ID IE a bid ID IE a cause IE and a criticality diagnostics IE. The bid ID IE in the DSC BID REJECT message may include the same value as the bid identifier included in the received DSC BID REQUEST message. The cause IE may include a reason code identifying a reason for the rejection of the bid e g minimum bid not met outbid bid not found etc. . In operation block the DSC may use information included in the received DSC BID REJECT message to perform various bid request failure response operations such as operations to determine whether to rebid for the resources to generate a new DSC BID REQUEST message that includes a valid bid ID etc.

DSAAP notification method may be performed after the DPC notifies the DSC that the bid has been accepted e.g. after operation illustrated in . The DSAAP notification method also may be performed after the expiry of a bidding time and or in response to the DPC detecting an event or condition e.g. new bid received outbid etc. .

In operation block illustrated in the DPC may determine that the bid amount specific in bid amount IE in the last latest or most current BID REQUEST message accepted from the DSC is not the highest among the current bids. In operation the DPC may generate and send a DSC BID OUTBID message to the DSC to inform the lessee DSC that its earlier bid was outbid by a higher bid from another lessee DSC and or that their earlier bid is no longer valid. In various embodiments the DPC may generate the DSC BID OUTBID message to include any or all of a message type information element IE a message ID IE a cause IE a bid info IE a criticality diagnostics IE a DSC ID IE and a BID ID IE.

The DSC ID IE may include information that is suitable for use in identifying the specific lessee DSC . The BID ID IE may include a bid ID suitable for use in identifying the submitted bid that has been outbid. In operation block the lessee DSC may perform various bid outbid failure response operations such as by determining whether to submit a higher bid for the resources to that DPC to submit a bid to a different DPC to drop existing calls to free bandwidth etc.

With reference to in operation block the DPC may determine that the bidding time has expired and that the bid amount specific in bid amount IE in the last latest or most current BID REQUEST message accepted from the DSC is the highest among the current bids. In operation the DPC may generate and send a DSC BID WON message to the DSC to inform the lessee DSC that their earlier bid is the winning bid. In various embodiments the DPC may generate the DSC BID WON message to include any or all of a message type information element IE a message ID IE a bid ID IE a bid info IE a DSC ID IE and original bid details such as bandwidth MBPS duration and the winning bid amount etc. The DSC ID IE may include information that is suitable for use in identifying the specific lessee DSC . The bid ID IE may include a bid identifier suitable for identifying the bid that won the resource auction bidding operations.

In operation block the winning lessee DSC may wait to receive DSC RESOURCES ALLOCATED message from the DPC before scheduling its network equipment and device e.g. wireless devices to start using the resources and or for the resources to be made available for use i.e. scheduling for the time of day when the resources will be ready for use by the winning lessee network . In operation block the DPC may close the auction such as by rejecting further bids from other networks for the resources won by the bid submitted by lessee DSC .

With reference to in operation block the DPC may determine that the bidding time has expired and that the bid amount specific in bid amount IE in the last latest or most current BID REQUEST message accepted from the DSC is not the highest among the current bids. In operation the DPC may generate and send a DSC BID LOST message to the DSC to inform the lessee DSC that its earlier bid has not won the bid and the auction bid is closed due to another lessee DSC winning the auction. In various embodiments the DPC may generate the DSC BID LOST message to include any or all of a message type information element IE a message ID IE a bid ID IE and a DSC ID IE. The DSC ID IE may include information that is suitable for use in identifying the specific lessee DSC that submitted the losing bid and or to which the DSC BID LOST message is sent. The bid ID IE may include a bid identifier suitable for use in identifying the submitted bid.

In operation block the lessee DSC may perform various failure response operations such as determining whether to submit a bid to for other available resources whether to drop existing calls to free up resources etc. In operation block the DPC may close the auction and or allow the losing lessee DSCs to bid for other available resources.

With reference to in operation block the DPC may determine that the auction for a network resource that the DSC previously submitted a bid has been cancelled. For example the DPC may determine that the auction has been withdrawn by lessor network operator or that the auction has been cancelled by DPC operator for administrative reasons. In operation the DPC may generate and send a DSC BID CANCELLED message to the DSC to inform the lessee DSC that the auction has been cancelled. In various embodiments the DPC may generate the DSC BID CANCELLED message to include any or all of a message type information element IE a message ID IE a bid ID IE a DSC ID IE and a cause IE. The DSC ID IE may include information that is suitable for use in identifying the specific lessee DSC . The bid ID IE may include a bid identifier suitable for use in identifying the resource bid for which the auction has been cancelled. The cause IE may include a reason code for the bid s cancellation e.g. auction withdrawn auction cancelled etc. . In operation block the lessee DSC may perform various failure response operations such as by determining whether to submit a bid to a different DPC to drop calls etc.

In operation block illustrated in the lessee DSC may identify and select a specific resource for immediate purchase from the list of resources e.g. list of resources obtained from performing DSAAP method discussed above . In various the embodiments the lessee DSC may select a resource that is scheduled for bidding that is currently being auctioned that is only made available for immediate purchase etc. In operation the DSC may generate and send DSC BUY REQUEST message to the DPC to request to buy the identified selected resources from a lessor network.

In various embodiments the DSC may generate the DSC BUY REQUEST message to include any or all of a message type information element IE a message ID IE a DSC identity IE a DSC type IE a bid ID IE a buy amount IE and a PLMN ID IE. The PLMN ID IE may include information suitable for use in identifying the PLMN ID of the network associated with the bid which may identified via the bid ID IE. The buy amount IE may include the amount e.g. in USD of the bid i.e. bid value submitted by the lessee DSC .

In an embodiment the DSC may be configured to generate the DSC BUY REQUEST message to include a buy amount value that is equal to an amount identified via a buy amount IE in a listing for the bid ID included in a received AVAILABLE BIDS RESPONSE message which is discussed above with reference to .

In operation block illustrated in the DPC may use the information included in the received DSC BUY REQUEST message to identify the requested resource the network associated with the request resource whether the requested resource is currently being auctioned whether the requested resource has been made available for immediate purchase a minimum purchase amount requested for the immediate purchase of that resource and or whether the buy amount included in the received DSC BUY REQUEST message is equal to or greater than the requested purchase amount. In the example illustrated in as part of operation block the DPC determines that the buy amount included in the received DSC BUY REQUEST message is greater than or equal to the requested purchase amount.

In operation the DPC may generate and send a DSC BUY ACCEPT message to the DSC to inform the lessee DSC that it has successfully purchased leased the resource for use. In various embodiments the DPC may generate the DSC BUY ACCEPT message to include any or all of a message type information element IE a message ID IE and a bid ID IE. In operation block the DPC may terminate stop or close an active auction for that resource and or perform similar operations so that the resource is no longer available for bidding or buying by other lessee DSCs.

With reference to in operation block the DPC may use the information included in the received DSC BUY REQUEST message e.g. as part of operation to determine that the bid buy request is to be rejected. For example the DPC may determine that the buy amount specific in buy amount IE in the received DSC BUY REQUEST message is less than the requested purchase amount. As another example the DPC may determine that the bid ID value included in the bid ID IE is invalid or that the resource bid is no longer available for bidding due to expiry end of auction bid withdrawn invalid bid ID etc. .

In operation the DPC may generate and send a DSC BUY REJECT message to the DSC . In various embodiments the DPC may generate the DSC BUY REJECT message to include any or all of a message type information element IE a message ID IE a bid ID IE and a cause IE. The value of the bid ID IE may be the same as the bid identifier included in the DSC BUY REQUEST message received as part of operation . The cause IE may include a reason code for the rejection of the buy request e.g. requested purchase price not met bid not found etc. . In operation block the DSC may perform various failure response operations such as determining whether to submit a new purchase request with a higher bid amount. In operation block the DPC perform various operations so to make that resource available for bidding or buying by other lessee DSCs.

In operation block illustrated in the DPC may determine that the lessee DSC has successfully purchased or won an auction for a resource in a lessor network represented by the lessor DSC . In operation illustrated in the DPC may generate and send a DSC BID SUCCESS message to the lessor DSC to inform the lessor network that one or more of its allocated resources bids has been won by the lessee DSC

In various embodiments the DPC may generate the DSC BID SUCCESS message to include any or all of a message type information element IE a message ID IE a cause IE and a criticality diagnostics IE. In a further embodiment the DPC may be configured to generate the DSC BID SUCCESS message to also include any or all of a bid ID IE a DSC ID IE and a bid value IE. These additional information elements may be used to communicate information regarding the winning bid. For example the bid ID IE may include a bid ID that corresponds to the bid that successfully participated in and won the auction for the resources. The DSC ID IE may include the DSC ID of the auction winner i.e. the lessee DSC . The bid value IE may include the winning bid amount and or the purchase price of the resources.

In operation the lessor DSC may generate and send DSC RESOURCES ALLOCATED message to the DPC to allocate commit the resources for access and use by components in the lessee network. The lessor DSC may be configured to generate DSC RESOURCES ALLOCATED message to include any or all of a message type information element IE a message ID IE a bid iD a PLMN ID Grid ID Cell ID list IE a PLMN ID IE a grid ID IE list of cell IDs IE and various auction resource details e.g. bandwidth MBPS duration etc. . In an embodiment the PLMN ID IE a grid ID IE and list of cell IDs IE may be included in the PLMN ID Grid ID Cell ID list IE. The PLMN ID IE may include the PLMN ID of the lessor network allocating the resources which may be the same PLMN ID network identified in the winning bid. The grid ID IE and list of cell IDs IE may include information suitable for identifying the grid cells associated with the resources. These values may be the same as the grid cell values included in the winning bid.

In operation the DPC may forward the received DSC RESOURCES ALLOCATED message to the winning lessee DSC to enable the lessee DSC to start using the allocated resources of lessor network resources. In operation block the lessee DSC may schedule its network equipment to start using lessor network resources from the time of day specified as part of the bid and or included in the received DSC RESOURCES ALLOCATED message.

With reference to in operation block the lessor DSC may determine that the resources submitted for auction should be withdrawn and or to forego allocating the submitted resources to a winner of the auction. The lessor DSC may determine to withdraw the resources after the DPC determines that lessee network purchased or won an auction for those resources and or for any of a variety of reasons e.g. unforeseen or administrative reasons etc. .

In operation the lessor DSC may generate and send a DSC RESOURCES WITHDRAWN message to the DPC to withdraw the resources. The lessor DSC may generate the DSC RESOURCES WITHDRAWN message to include any or all of a message type information element IE a message ID IE a bid ID IE a cause IE and a PLMN ID Grid ID Cell ID list IE. The bid ID IE may include information that is suitable for use in identifying the bid. The cause IE may include a reason code that describes the reason for withdrawal of resource allocations e.g. resources not available resources withdrawn administrative etc. .

In operation the DPC may forward the received DSC RESOURCES WITHDRAWN message to the lessee DSC which may have submitted a winning bid for the withdrawn resources. In operation block the lessee DSC may perform various failure response operations such as determining whether to participate in another auction whether to bid on a different resource determining whether to drop calls to free up resources etc.

In operation block illustrated in the lessor DSC may determine that its network resources from the cells that are part of a prior auction are in congestion. That is the lessor DSC may determine that it requires access or use of its allocated resources. In operation the lessor DSC may generate and send a DSC BACKOFF COMMAND message to the DPC to selectively handover wireless device s that are using the allocated resources of the lessor network back to the lessee network i.e. its home PLMN .

The lessor DSC may be configured to generate the DSC BACKOFF COMMAND message to include any or all of a message type information element IE a message ID IE a bid ID IE a UE identity IE a measurement report IE handoff cell information IE a cause IE and a DSC backoff response timer IE.

The UE identity IE may include information suitable for use in determining identity related information for the wireless device or UE such as the international mobile subscriber identity IMSI of the wireless device or its network.

The measurement report IE may include the latest last or most recent measurement report E UTRAN RRC message received by the lessor network for the identified wireless device i.e. the wireless devices that are requested to backoff to lessee network .

The bid ID IE may include a bid ID value corresponding to the bid that successfully participated in and completed won the auction. The bid ID may be used to identify the auction contract associated with the backoff operations i.e. the auction contract for which the resources were allocated .

In an embodiment the lessor DSC may be configured to determine whether there are multiple bid IDs that correspond to a congested cell. In an embodiment the lessor DSC may be configured to select the bid ID value from a plurality of bid IDs in response to determining that there are multiple bid IDs that correspond to a congested cell. In various embodiments the lessor DSC may be configured to select the bid ID value based on an operator policy provisioned at the lessor DSC based on a previous agreement based on a policy rule previously negotiated by lessor and lessee network operators etc.

In operation the DPC may forward the received DSC BACKOFF COMMAND message to the lessee DSC . In operation block the lessee DSC may use the information in the UE identity IE of the received DSC BACKOFF COMMAND message identify wireless device s that are to be subjected to the backoff operations i.e. the wireless devices that are to be handed back .

In operation block the lessee DSC may use the information included in the measurement report IE of the received DSC BACKOFF COMMAND message to determine identify and or select a target cell within lessee network to which the identified wireless device s are to be handed over the lessor network may have previously enabled measurement reporting from the wireless devices such as when they attached or were handed over to the lessor network. 

In operation the lessee DSC may generate and send a DSC BACKOFF RESPONSE message to the DPC . The lessee DSC may be configured to generate the DSC BACKOFF RESPONSE message to include any or all of a message type information element IE a message ID IE a bid ID IE a UE identity IE a handoff cell information IE and a cause IE. In an embodiment the lessee DSC may be configured to generate the DSC BACKOFF RESPONSE message to include the cause IE or a value for the cause IE in response to determining that a suitable target cell within lessee network could not be identified or selected for the handed over. The value of the cause IE may identify a cause of the failure such as network overload no appropriate target cell found or unknown wireless device UE. In an embodiment the lessee DSC may be configured to generate the DSC BACKOFF RESPONSE message to include a value e.g. target cell information for the handoff cell information IE in response to successfully identifying a target cell within lessee network to which the wireless device may be handed over.

In operation the DPC may identify the lessor DSC based on the bid id IE included in the received DSC BACKOFF RESPONSE message and forward the received DSC BACKOFF RESPONSE message to the lessor DSC . In operation block the lessor DSC may determine whether the received DSC BACKOFF RESPONSE message includes a handoff cell information IE or a valid value for the handoff cell information IE . In response to determining that the received DSC BACKOFF RESPONSE message includes a handoff cell information IE or a valid value for the handoff cell information IE in operation block the lessor DSC may use the target cell information included in the handoff cell information IE to encode a HANDOVER REQUIRED message. In operation block the lessor DSC may and initiate based handover procedure to handover the wireless device from lessor network to lessee network.

With reference to in operation block the lessor DSC may determine that the DPC has not responded to the DSC BACKOFF COMMAND message sent as part of operation within a time period identified in the DSC backoff response timer IE included in the DSC BACKOFF COMMAND message. Alternatively or additionally in operation block the lessor DSC may determine that there is significant or severe network congestion or administrative reasons that require withdraw of the allocation of all remaining network resources pertaining to the resources bid id included or identified in the DSC BACKOFF COMMAND message.

In operation the lessor DSC may generate and send a DSC RESOURCES WITHDRAWN message to the DPC . In operation the DPC may forward the received DSC RESOURCES WITHDRAWN message to the lessee DSC to withdraw the allocation of the remaining network resources. In operation block the lessee DSC may perform various resource withdrawn failure response operations such as dropping calls determining whether to bid for new resources etc.

In operation block the DSC may determine that it needs to terminate DSA operations. In operation the DSC may generate and send a DSC DE REGISTER message to the DPC . The DSC may be configured to generate the DSC DE REGISTER message to include any or all of a message type information element IE a message ID IE a backoff timer IE and a cause IE that identifies a cause for the termination of operations. In operation block the DPC may clear all the related resources associated with the DSC and or perform other similar operations to de register the DSC in response to receiving the DSC DE REGISTER message.

In operation block the DPC may determine that it needs to terminate DSA operations with the DSC . In operation the DPC may generate and send a DSC DE REGISTER message to the DSC . The DPC may be configured to generate the DSC DE REGISTER message to include any or all of a message type information element IE a message ID IE a backoff timer IE and a cause IE that identifies a cause for the termination of operations e.g. overload unspecified etc. . In operation block the DPC may clear all the related resources associated with the DSC and or perform other similar operations to de register the DSC .

In operation block the DSC may perform various de registration failure response operations based on the information included in the received DSC DE REGISTER message. For example the DSC may be configured to not retry registration to the same DPC for at least the duration indicated in the backoff timer IE included in the received DSC DE REGISTER message when the value of the cause IE in the DSC DE REGISTER message is set to overload. 

In operation block the DSC may detect an error or error condition e.g. a protocol error etc. . In operation the DSC may generate and send an ERROR INDICATION message to the DPC . The DSC may be configured to generate the ERROR INDICATION message to include any or all of a message type information element IE a message ID IE cause IE and a criticality diagnostics IE. The cause IE may include information suitable for use in identifying a cause or type of the error e.g. transfer syntax error abstract syntax error logical error etc. . The criticality diagnostics IE may include a procedure code IE a triggering message IE and a procedure criticality IE. In operation block the DSC and or DPC may perform various error response operations based on the detected error or information included in the received ERROR INDICATION message. The error detection and response operations are discussed in detail further below.

In operation block the DPC may detect an error condition. In operation the DPC may generate and send an ERROR INDICATION message to the DSC . The DPC may be configured to generate the ERROR INDICATION message to include a cause information element IE that identifies a cause for the error. In operation block the DSC and or DPC may perform various error response operations based on the information included in the received ERROR INDICATION message.

As mentioned above the DSC and DPC may be configured perform various error response or failure response operations in response to detecting an error or failure condition. As part of these operations the DSC and or DPC may identify the type or cause of the error failure condition and tailor their responses based on the identified type or cause. For example the DSC and or DPC may be configured to determine whether a detected error is a protocol error and tailor their responses accordingly.

Protocol errors include transfer syntax errors abstract syntax errors and logical errors. A transfer syntax error may occur when the receiving functional DSAAP entity e.g. DSC DPC etc. is not able to decode the received physical message. For example transfer syntax errors may be detected while decoding ASN.1 information in a received message. In an embodiment the DSC and DPC components may be configured to retransmit or re request a DSAAP message in response to determining that a detected error is a transfer syntax error e.g. as part of the error response operations .

An abstract syntax error may occur when the receiving functional DSAAP entity e.g. DSC DPC etc. receives information elements IEs or IE groups that cannot be comprehended or understood i.e. an unknown IE id . An abstract syntax error may also occur when the entity receives an information element IE for which a logical range e.g. allowed number of copies is violated. The DSC and DPC components may be configured to detect or identify these types of abstract syntax errors i.e. cannot comprehend abstract syntax error and in response perform error response operations based on criticality information included in the corresponding DSAAP message. Additional details regarding these operations and the criticality information are provided further below.

An abstract syntax error may also occur when the receiving functional DSAAP entity does not receive IEs or IE groups but according to the specified presence of the object the IEs or IE groups should have been present in the received message. The DSC and DPC components may be configured to detect or identify these particular types of abstract syntax errors i.e. missing IE or IE group and in response perform error response operations based on criticality information and presence information for the missing IE IE group. Additional details regarding these operations criticality information and presence information are provided further below.

An abstract syntax error may also occur when the receiving entity receives IEs or IE groups that are defined to be part of that message in wrong order or with too many occurrences of the same IE or IE group. In addition an abstract syntax error may also occur when the receiving entity receives IEs or IE groups but according to the conditional presence of the concerning object and the specified condition the IEs or IE groups should not have been present in the received message. The DSC and DPC components may be configured to detect or identify such abstract syntax errors i.e. wrong order too many occurrences erroneously present etc. and in response reject or terminate a procedure or method associated with the error e.g. the method that caused the error . The DSC and DPC components may reject or terminate the procedure method as part of the error response operations.

In the various embodiments the DSC and DPC components may be configured to continue to decode read or process a DSAAP message after detecting identifying or determining that an abstract syntax error occurred for that message. For example the DSC and DPC components may skip a portion of the message that includes an error and continue processing the other portions of the message. As part of this continued processing the DSC and DPC components may detect or identify additional abstract syntax errors.

In an embodiment the DSC and DPC components may be configured to perform error response operations for each detected abstract syntax error and or based on the criticality information and presence information for the IE IE group associated with the abstract syntax error.

As mentioned above each DSAAP message may include or may be associated with criticality information presence information range information and assigned criticality information. In the various embodiments a receiving functional DSAAP entity e.g. DSC DPC etc. may be configured to use any or all of such information e.g. criticality information presence information etc. when detecting an error identifying the type of the error or the specific error response that are to be performed. That is the entity may perform different operations depending on the values of the criticality information presence information range information and or assigned criticality information.

In an embodiment the receiving functional DSAAP entity e.g. DSC DPC etc. may be configured to use the presence information included in a DSAAP message when identifying the type of error and the specific error response operations that are to be performed for the identified error type. For example the entity may use the presence information to determine whether the presence of an information element IE is optional conditional or mandatory e.g. with respect to RNS application for that message or communication. The entity may determine that an abstract syntax error has occurred when a received message is missing one or more information elements that are determined to be mandatory or conditional when the condition is true .

In an embodiment the receiving functional DSAAP entity e.g. DSC DPC etc. may be configured use the criticality information when identifying the specific error response operations that are to be performed. That is each DSAAP message may include criticality information for each individual information element IE or IE group included in that message. The values of criticality information for each IE or IE group may include Reject IE Ignore IE and Notify Sender and Ignore IE. The receiving entity e.g. DSC DPC etc. may use this criticality information to determine that an IE an IE group or an EP is incomprehensible identify the condition as an abstract syntax error i.e. a cannot comprehend abstract syntax error and or to identify the error response operations that are to be performed e.g. reject ignore notify etc. .

In an embodiment the receiving entity e.g. DSC DPC etc. may be configured to reject a method procedure and initiate a DSAAP error indication method discussed above with reference to in response to determining that an information element IE included in a message received during the performance of that method procedure is incomprehensible and that value of the criticality information for that IE is set to Reject IE. 

For example when a message that initiates a method procedure e.g. a DSC REGISTER REQUEST message etc. is received determined to include one or more IEs IE groups that are incomprehensible and marked as Reject IE the receiving entity may the reject the method procedure by not executing any of the functional requests included in that message. The receiving entity may also report the rejection of one or more IEs IE groups using the message normally used to report unsuccessful outcome of the procedure. When the information in the received initiating message is insufficient and cannot be used to determine a value for all IEs that are required to be present in the message used to report the unsuccessful outcome of the procedure the receiving entity may terminate the procedure and initiate a DSAAP error indication method procedure.

As a further example when a message initiating a method procedure that does not have a message to report unsuccessful outcome is received and that message includes one or more IEs IE groups marked with Reject IE which the receiving entity does not comprehend the receiving entity may terminate the method procedure and initiate a DSAAP error indication method procedure.

As yet another example when a response message e.g. a DSC REGISTER RESPONSE message etc. is received that includes one or more IEs marked with Reject IE which the receiving entity does not comprehend the receiving entity may consider the method procedure as being unsuccessfully terminated and initiate a local error handling method.

In an embodiment the receiving entity e.g. DSC DPC etc. may be configured to ignore or skip a method procedure and initiate an DSAAP error indication method discussed above with reference to in response to determining that an information element IE included in a message received during the performance of that method procedure is incomprehensible and that value of the criticality information for that IE is set to Ignore IE and Notify Sender. 

As an example when a message initiating a method procedure is received containing one or more IEs IE groups marked with Ignore IE and Notify Sender which the receiving entity does not comprehend the receiving entity may ignore the content of the incomprehensible IEs IE groups continue with the method procedure as if the incomprehensible IEs IE groups were not received except for the reporting using the comprehended IEs IE groups and report in the response message of the method procedure that one or more IEs IE groups have been ignored. When the information received in the initiating message is insufficient to determine a value for all IEs that are required to be present in the response message the receiving entity may terminate the method procedure and initiate a DSAAP error indication method procedure.

As a further example when a message initiating a method procedure that does not have a message to report the outcome of the method procedure is received containing one or more IEs IE groups marked with Ignore IE and Notify Sender which the receiving entity does not comprehend the receiving entity may ignore the content of the not comprehended IEs IE groups continue with the method procedure as if the not comprehended IEs IE groups were not received except for the reporting using the understood IEs IE groups and initiate a DSAAP error indication method procedure to report that one or more IEs IE groups have been ignored.

As yet another example when a response message is received containing one or more IEs IE groups marked with Ignore IE and Notify Sender which the receiving entity does not comprehend the receiving entity may ignore the content of the not comprehended IE IE groups continue with the method procedure as if the not comprehended IEs IE groups were not received except for the reporting using the understood IEs IE groups and initiate a DSAAP error indication method procedure.

In an embodiment the receiving entity e.g. DSC DPC etc. may be configured to ignore or skip a method procedure in response to determining that an information element IE included in a message received during the performance of that method procedure is incomprehensible and that value of the criticality information for that IE is set to Ignore IE. 

As an example when a message initiating a method procedure is received containing one or more IEs IE groups marked with Ignore IE which the receiving entity does not comprehend the receiving entity may ignore the content of the not comprehended IEs IE groups and continue with the method procedure as if the not comprehended IEs IE groups were not received using only the understood IEs IE groups.

As a further example when a response message is received that includes one or more IEs IE groups marked with Ignore IE which the receiving entity does not comprehend the receiving entity may ignore the content of the not comprehended IEs IE groups and continue with the method procedure as if the not comprehended IEs IE groups were not received using the understood IEs IE groups.

When reporting not comprehended IEs IE groups marked with Reject IE or Ignore IE and Notify Sender using a response message defined for the method procedure the Information Element Criticality Diagnostics IE may be included in the Criticality Diagnostics IE for each reported IE IE group.

In an embodiment the receiving entity e.g. DSC DPC etc. may be configured to initiate a DSAAP error indication method discussed above with reference to in response to determining that it cannot decode a type of message IE in a received message. In an embodiment the entity may be configured to only consider the IEs specified in the specification version used by the component when determining the correct order for the IE included in a message.

In an embodiment the receiving entity e.g. DSC DPC etc. may be configured to treat the missing IE IE group according to the criticality information for the missing IE IE group in the received message specified in the version of the present document used by the receiver.

As an example the receiving entity e.g. DSC DPC etc. may be configured to not execute any of the functional requests of a received initiating message in response to determining that the received message is missing one or more IEs IE groups with specified criticality Reject IE. The receiving entity may reject the method procedure and report the missing IEs IE groups using the message normally used to report unsuccessful outcome of the method procedure. When it is determined that the information received in the initiating message was insufficient to determine a value for all IEs that are required to be present in the message used to report the unsuccessful outcome of the method procedure the receiving entity may terminate the method procedure and initiate a DSAAP error indication method procedure.

As a further example when a received message initiating a method procedure that does not have a message to report unsuccessful outcome is missing one or more IEs IE groups with specified criticality Reject IE the receiving entity may terminate the method procedure and initiate a DSAAP error indication method procedure.

As yet another example when a received response message is missing one or more IEs IE groups with specified criticality Reject IE the receiving entity may consider the method procedure as unsuccessfully terminated and initiate a local error handling method procedure.

As another example when a received message initiating a method procedure is missing one or more IEs IE groups with specified criticality Ignore IE and Notify Sender the receiving entity may ignore that those IEs are missing and continue with the method procedure based on the other IEs IE groups present in the message and report in the response message of the method procedure that one or more IEs IE groups were missing. When the information received in the initiating message is insufficient to determine a value for all IEs that are required to be present in the response message the receiving entity may terminate the method procedure and initiate a DSAAP error indication method procedure.

As another example when a received message initiating a method procedure that does not have a message to report the outcome of the method procedure is missing one or more IEs IE groups with specified criticality Ignore IE and Notify Sender the receiving entity may ignore that those IEs are missing and continue with the method procedure based on the other IEs IE groups present in the message and initiate a DSAAP error indication method procedure to report that one or more IEs IE groups were missing.

As another example when a received message a received response message is missing one or more IEs IE groups with specified criticality Ignore IE and Notify Sender the receiving entity may ignore that those IEs are missing and continue with the method procedure based on the other IEs IE groups present in the message and initiate a DSAAP error indication method procedure to report that one or more IEs IE groups were missing.

As another example when a received message initiating a method procedure is missing one or more IEs IE groups with specified criticality Ignore IE the receiving entity may ignore that those IEs are missing and continue with the method procedure based on the other IEs IE groups present in the message.

As another example when a received response message is missing one or more IEs IE groups with specified criticality Ignore IE the receiving entity may ignore that those IEs IE groups are missing and continue with the method procedure based on the other IEs IE groups present in the message.

The receiving entity e.g. DSC DPC etc. may be configured to respond to messages that include IEs or IE groups that received in wrong order include too many occurrences or are erroneously present i.e. are included and marked as conditional when the condition is not met in various ways. For example the receiving entity e.g. DSC DPC etc. may be configured to not execute any of the functional requests of a received initiating message in response to determining that the received message includes IEs or IE groups in wrong order includes too many occurrences of an IE or includes erroneously present IEs. The receiving entity may reject the method procedure and report the cause value Abstract Syntax Error Falsely Constructed Message using the message normally used to report unsuccessful outcome of the method procedure. When the information received in the initiating message is insufficient to determine a value for all IEs that are required to be present in the message used to report the unsuccessful outcome of the method procedure the receiving entity may terminate the method procedure and initiate a DSAAP error indication method procedure.

As another example when a message initiating a method procedure that does not have a message to report unsuccessful outcome is received containing IEs or IE groups in wrong order or with too many occurrences or erroneously present the receiving entity may terminate the method procedure and initiate a DSAAP error indication method procedure using the cause value Abstract Syntax Error Falsely Constructed Message .

As another example when a response message is received containing IEs or IE groups in wrong order or with too many occurrences or erroneously present the receiving entity may consider the method procedure as unsuccessfully terminated and initiate local error handling.

As mentioned above protocol errors include transfer syntax errors abstract syntax errors and logical errors. A logical error occurs when a message is comprehended correctly but the information contained within the message is not valid i.e. semantic error or describes a method procedure which is not compatible with the state of the receiving entity.

In an embodiment a receiving entity e.g. DSC DPC etc. may be configured to perform error response operations based on the class of the method procedure and irrespective of the criticality information of the IE s IE groups containing the erroneous values in response to determining detecting an logical error.

For example when a logical error is detected in a request message of a class method procedure and the method procedure has a message to report this unsuccessful outcome this message may be sent with an appropriate cause value i.e. in the clause IE such as semantic error or message not compatible with receiver state. When a logical error is detected in a request message of a class method procedure and the method procedure does not have a message to report this unsuccessful outcome the method procedure may be terminated and a DSAAP error indication method procedure may be initiated with an appropriate cause value. Where the logical error exists in a response message of a class procedure the procedure may be considered as unsuccessfully terminated and local error handling may be initiated.

When a logical error is detected in a message of a class procedure the procedure may be terminated and a DSAAP error indication procedure may be initiated with an appropriate cause value.

In the various embodiments the receiving entity e.g. DSC DPC etc. may be configured to perform a local error handling method procedure as opposed to a DSAAP error indication method procedure when a protocol error is detected in the ERROR INDICATION message. In case a response message or error indication message needs to be returned but the information necessary to determine the receiver of that message is missing the procedure may be considered as unsuccessfully terminated and local error handling may be initiated. When an error that terminates a procedure occurs the returned cause value may reflect the error that caused the termination of the procedure even if one or more abstract syntax errors with criticality ignore and notify have earlier occurred within the same procedure.

Using the DSA DSAAP methods described above the DSA system may provide dynamic and real time access to spectrum resources. As such spectrum resources may be available at networks which are not listed on the wireless device s home network PLMN or preferred roaming list.

In an embodiment a wireless device may be programmed in advance with an appropriate PLMN list and provisioned over the air on the secondary home network list. The over the air provisioning may provide instructions to one or a group of wireless devices to reinitiate the cell selection process with an updated PLMN list or updated list of preferred networks. Alternatively or in addition the wireless device may be configured with a client application which upon receipt of a WAP SMS message enables the wireless device to search for a PLMN that has been made available in the DSA process.

Several methods may be used to allow the wireless devices to access available resources on different networks. In the DSA communication system there are at least two types of networks or source systems virtual or existing networks. Virtual networks may include networks that utilize the Radio Access Network RAN of the primary network. When connecting to virtual networks the DPC may control the access of the secondary wireless devices and access RF spectrum resources and the subscriber records of the primary system to allow the secondary users to appear as roamers on the primary network. The secondary user wireless devices may use a list of preferred networks to access virtual networks.

Alternatively when originating using existing networks the secondary user wireless device may make a cell selection based upon a priority list of networks participating in the DSA communication system. Once the secondary user wireless device is authenticated the DPC may validate the secondary user to access resources on the primary network. If authentication or validation is not successful the DPC may send a request to the secondary wireless device e.g. via a client in the device to re originate onto the proper system.

In an embodiment the wireless devices may include a universal subscriber identity module or USIM. The USIM may be a single or dual USIM. Critical information such as data required to select the correct network may be stored on the USIM. By using a USIM a wireless device may be enabled to no longer use a PLMN. USIM may have stored upon it information such as home International Mobile Subscriber Identity or IMSI HPLMN prioritization list of permitted VPLMNs and forbidden PLMNs list.

If a wireless device uses a dual USIM it may be enabled to immediately access spectrum resources available in an alternative network. The dual USIM may further enable a multiband multimode wireless device to access a variety of networks in the DSA as well as using standard roaming arrangements.

In block a wireless device is powered on and attempts to establish connectivity or the wireless device attempts reestablish connectivity by initiating the initial network and cell selection operations. In block the wireless device may search the preferred networks list e.g. PLMN PRL list that is stored on the device. In block the wireless device may select a cell by receiving reading and determining the signal strengths of nearby cell site broadcast channels.

In determination block the wireless device may read the cell site broadcast channel and determine whether the cell site offers the correct network system or technology. The wireless device may select and establish a connection to the best cell site available which may be identified via the wireless device measuring the adjacent cells based upon the access technology to determine which cell is the best to utilize. In response to determining that the selected network cell is not correct or available i.e. determination No in block the wireless device may use the Any Cell Selection process stage and continue to search for a suitable cell site by selecting the next PLMN PRL listing until it finds a site that allows normal access following the access protocol in the appropriate PLMN list.

In response to determining that the selected network cell is correct and available i.e. determination Yes in block the wireless device may request and or receive a System Information Block SIB Master Information Block MIB transmitted from the selected cell site. The SIB MIB may include information about the network that the cell site is serving and available services through that network such as PLMN ID s Cell ID closed subscriber groups IDs traffic allocation identifiers TAI routing area an LTE neighbor list a list of LTE non system sites GSM Cells UMTS cells CDMA cells etc. This information may be used by the wireless device for various different purposes.

For example when the wireless device moves from eNodeB to eNodeB it may use the SIB MIB information sent from the new eNodeB to determine that a change has occurred in the serving eNodeB. To detect the change in eNodeB the wireless device may identify the change in SIB MIB information which may include a change in change in the PLMN availability and TAI parameters. The TAI parameters may define specific routing areas that can further be used to refine a geographic region in which the wireless device can use available resources.

The cell site may receive the SIB MIB and network information via the HSS of the network. In addition to the data transmitted through the SIB the HSS of the network may also provide the information as to which PGW s the wireless device may use to access resources on the network.

In determination block the wireless device may determine whether reselection is required. If no reselection is required i.e. determination block Yes in block the wireless device may camp on the cell channel. If system reselection is required i.e. determination block No in block the wireless device may be instructed to reselect a new cell or system based on the cell selection reselection process.

While camping on the selected cell site the wireless device may receive additional information and instructions over the air from the selected network such as updated list of public land mobile network or PLMN PRL. The wireless device may also continue to monitor the SIB MIB for any changes or additional information.

In an embodiment the SIB MIB may provide a Secondary Access Class which may enable the wireless device to determine which channels based on the DSA process it can use for access through the reselection process. The SIB MIB may also include data to enable the camping wireless device to reselect another radio access technology IRAT and attempt to acquire a control channel on the new Radio Access Terminal RAT . The information in the SIB MIB may thus be used to instruct a wireless device to reselect another RAT that is associated with the same or another network which may be on another frequency band.

Cell reselection which may trigger PLMN selection may be controlled via specific parameters. For example the DSA communication system may employ barred PLMN id to prevent a wireless device using resources from one network to attempt to roam on to other networks. For example the DSA communication system may prevent a secondary user wireless device using resources of a primary host network to roam back to or establish connection with the secondary home network. Similarly the DSA communication system using a PLMN id prioritization scheme that is over the air OTA client activated or dual USIM driven may also prevent a wireless device using resources of a network to reestablish connection with other networks unless the DSA communication system rules permit.

In an embodiment a wireless device that is camping at a cell site may be instructed to perform cell reselection when the capacity of the current cell reaches a predetermined level. In such a scenario the DSC of the current camping network may change the SIB MIB of the current network to include instructions the camping wireless device to perform a cell reselect and search for another TAI area or system. The instructions to perform a cell reselect may also be forwarded by the WAP SMS message to the wireless device.

The wireless device may be configured to perform cell reselection operations based on changes in the TAI. When using a network different wireless devices may be assigned different TAI s depending on their particular uses and device types. For example a network may assign one TAI to DSA communication system users. The network may also assign another TAI to devices which do not use the DSA communication system. The advantage of using multiple and layered TAI s may enable the TAI assigning network to selectively tailor usage traffic. The multiple and layered TAI s may further enable the TAI assigning networks to prevent the wireless devices that may have correct PLMN id but are not supposed to use the selected area from selecting the cells but may be denied service or may be forced into cell reselection.

In an embodiment a special client may be installed on DSA communication system compatible wireless devices to enable the wireless devices to determine which system and RAT is supposed to use on secondary bases. The PLMN PRL list of the client application may be updated by receiving an SMS or WAP that may be transmitted to the handset via a text message or through a data IP session. The updated client application may instruct the wireless device to go to the proper channel for accessing allocated resources of a primary network.

Using a client application may facilitate the implementation of the DSA communication system in legacy networks and systems which may or may not possess the ability e.g. due to software load to have a secondary access channel defined in the SIB.

In idle mode the wireless device may be instructed to perform intra and inter frequency measurements in the cell reselection process. Using information in the SIB MIB or from the client application the wireless device may perform intra frequency search inter frequency or inter radio access tech iRAT . This process may be controlled by UTRAN. The Intra and Inter frequency measurements or inter radio access technologies may be on a region or cell sector bases depending on configuration of the wireless device.

Once the wireless device selects the appropriate cell site and before it enters an idle mode the wireless device may need to be authenticated by the system on which it is camping. The selected network requires validation and authentication of the wireless device to ensure that the device possesses the required permissions to access the network.

The DSA communication system may authenticate a wireless device using different methods. Authentication of the wireless device with the DSA may depend on the business arrangements between different providers and the DSA system. For example authentication may be based on general or prioritization levels. The authentication process may be followed using the DPC HSS as the anchor and this may be accessed by the AAA AuC of the 3G 2.5G networks of the PCRF in LTE or similar platform. The Host Network may authenticate the secondary users by using standard MAP IS 41 signaling.

Upon authentication each entrant may be assigned a defined usage level allowed on host network duration permitted on system purchase type e.g. wholesale or a range of IMI s HSS would allow redirecting of inbound calls applications would continue where they relied on a server which is accessible from the backend.

In an embodiment the initial cell selection and origination for DSA may follow that which is identified in the 3GPP specifications. The initial cell selection may include the wireless device selecting the appropriate network and cell for use. The Initial cell selection and origination process may not be required for the license area or regional area spectrum allocation since these may effectively be the home network home PLMN and the initial cell selection that takes place may be transparent to the end user wireless device.

In an embodiment the DSA process may include utilizing a network cell access algorithm so that the wireless device acquires the correct network. The initial network and cell selection may begin when the wireless device is either powered on or is trying to reestablish connectivity. The wireless device may be programmed to search form a preferred list of networks PLMN and radio carriers it is authorized to utilize. The wireless device may begin this process through examination of an existing PLMN PRL list that is programmed into the wireless device and which identifies authorized networks PLMN id s and carriers that the wireless device is to use in a rank order. The wireless device may be programmed in advance with the appropriate PLMN list i.e. preferred list of networks . The wireless device may also be provisioned Over the Air OTA on the home network thereby instructing the wireless device or group of wireless device s to reinitiate the cell selection process with an updated PLMN list. Alternatively the wireless device can have a client app that has been pre installed on the device which upon receipt of a WAP SMS message is able to begin searching for a PLMN that has been made available due to the DSA process.

In an embodiment the wireless device may include a USIM card or memory. The USIM in the wireless device may be a single USIM or a dual USIM. The USIM may include information suitable for use when selecting the correct network and or when determining that a PLMN should not be used. In an embodiment the USIM may include a Home IMSI HPLMN a prioritized list of permitted VPLMNs and a list of forbidden PLMNs. The use of a dual USIM may facilitates the immediate use of an alternative network and may enable a multimode multiband wireless device to access a variety of networks using DSA in addition to standard roaming arrangements.

After the carrier network and cell are determined selected the wireless device may make the initial selections receive the required information and camp on the cell unit until further action is required. In the process the cell site to which the wireless device is attached or communicating initially may provide various different types of network information and services any or all of which may be made available through communication with the HSS. The HSS may also provide the information as to the PGW that wireless device can use.

In an embodiment a closed subscriber group CSG identifier may be provided as part of the information sent to the wireless device. The CSG id may define a specific CSG or hybrid cells that can further be used to refine a geographic region that the wireless device is allowed to utilize. In addition when the wireless device moves from first eNodeB to second eNodeB the MIB information sent from the eNodeB can change to indicate a change in PLMN availability as well as CSG id differences. In addition to PLMN and CSG id information the wireless device may receive a list of alternative LTE sites that can be utilized in addition to other radio access technologies and the associated neighbor lists. All of this information may be made available on the System Information Broadcast information SIB messages.

As discussed above when the wireless device is powered on it searches for strongest cell in preferred PLMN PRL list. The wireless device searches for the strongest cell then performs the PLMN PRL selection and cell selection process. During the cell selection process the wireless device reads the System Information Block SIB information which is sent from the cell site. If at initiation a suitable cell is not available the wireless device may utilize the Any Cell Selection process stage and continue to hunt e.g. using heuristics and trial and error until it finds a site that allows normal access following the access protocol for the wireless device using the appropriate PLMN list. After initial acquisition the wireless device camps on the cell that matches the correct PLMN and scans for other cells to determine which cell is the best serving cell. This may be achieved by the wireless device measuring the adjacent cells based on the access technology to determine which cell is the best to utilize.

Based on the SIB information the wireless device may camp on the cell or be instructed to reselect a new cell or system based on the cell selection reselection process. Additionally the SIB can also instruct the wireless device to reselect another Radio Access Technology RAT that is associated with the same or another network which may be on a another frequency band.

Once the wireless device is camped on the channel it can receive additional information and instructions. While camping on the channel the wireless device can have its PLMN PRL list e.g. preferred list of networks updated over the air. The SIB may also be monitored for additional information. A Secondary Access Class may also be defined which may enable the wireless device to determine a channel for use in the reselection process. The SIB can also inform the wireless device to reselect another radio access technology RAT and have the wireless device then attempt to acquire a control channel on the new RAT.

As discussed above a wireless device may include a single or dual USIM configured to facilitate the proper acquisition of the network matching the DSA process. In addition the wireless device may include a client software application that identifies the lessor networks cells that are to be used as a secondary basis. Based on the client software the wireless device will be able to determine which system and RAT it is supposed to utilize. The updated PLMN PRL list using a client application can be obtained from a SMS or WAP pushed to the handset or done via a text message or through a data IP session for the information.

Cell reselection which will trigger PLMN selection is controlled via specific parameters. The use of barred PLMN id may be used as part of the DSA process to prevent a wireless device with home network coverage attempting to roam on a visited network in some cases the true home network. The DSA process using a PLMN id prioritization scheme that is OTA or client activated or dual USIM driven will also prevent the wireless device when it moves out of a coverage area of the cell from trying to reacquire the true home network unless the DSA rules permit.

Additionally through DSA cell reselection can be invoked when capacity situations occur at the cell being camped or the network the wireless device is instructed to use. The DSC will then uses the OMC change the MIB SIB information for the effected cells or network instructing the wireless device to look for another CSG area or system. The instructions can also be forwarded by a WAP SMS message the wireless device.

That is in the example illustrated in the lessor network is using CSG Id for its home network and for its home users while all the lessor cells are operating in hybrid access mode. This allows the lessor users e.g. wireless devices to be prioritized and all other lessee users CSG Id and CSG Id treated as secondary users with secondary priority of access. Also different QoS may be applied to primary vs. secondary users.

It should be understood that in example illustrated in wireless devices are not provided with a separate routing areas or virtual cells. Rather these devices CSG ids allow the lessor network to identify lessee wireless devices that are specific to a bid. This allows the lessor network to filter categorize the wireless devices and apply differentiated services based on the bid specific policies and or apply bid specific charging. As such the use of CSG Ids in this manner may allow the lessor network to manage the access and use of its resources by the wireless devices on a per user and per bid basis.

In block the processing core may select an initial carrier network and cell. In block the processing core may establish a connection or communication link to the selected carrier network and cell. In block the processing core may receive a CSD Id that defines a specific CSG or hybrid cell. In block the processing core may select a new cell in a different network based on the CSG identifier. In block the processing core may establish connection to the selected cell.

The various embodiments may include or use a dynamic spectrum arbitrage application part DSAAP protocol and or component that is configured to allow facilitate support or augment communications between two or more DSA components e.g. DPC DSC eNodeB MME HSS etc. so as to improve the efficiency and speed of the DSA system. A DSA component may be any component discussed in this application and or any component that participates in any of the DSA operations communications or methods discussed in this application. As such the DSAAP component s may be configured to allow facilitate support or augment communications between any of the components discussed in this application including the communications between a DPC component and a DSC component between the DSC component and a eNodeB component between the DSC component and an MME component between the DSC component and an HSS component between the MME component and the HSS component between the eNodeB component and a wireless device etc.

To facilitate the communications between two or more DSA components the DSAAP component s may publish application programming interfaces API and or include client modules that facilitate communications between the DSA components. In addition the DSAAP component s may be configured to allow the DSA components to communicate specific information use specific communication messages and or perform specific operations that together provide various DSA functions that further improve the efficiency and speed of the DSA system and participating networks.

As an example the DSAAP component s may be configured to allow an eNodeB to communicate with a DSC component e.g. via the Xe interface with other eNodeBs e.g. via an X2 interface and with various other components e.g. via the S1 interface . As a further example the DSAAP component s may be configured to allow facilitate support or augment communications between the DSC component and the DPC component so as to allow the DPC and or DSC components to better pool resources across the different networks better monitor traffic and resource usage in the various networks to more efficiently communicate bids and bidding information to quickly and efficiently register and deregister components and better perform backoff operations. The DSAAP component s may also improve the DSA resource auctioning operations by improving the performance and efficiency of the procedures for bidding generating invoices advertizing resources requesting resources purchasing resources validating bid credentials etc.

In the various embodiments all or portions of the DSAAP component may be included in one or more DSA components such as a DPC component a DSC component an eNodeB component an MME component and an HSS component. The DSAAP component may be implemented in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. In an embodiment the DSAAP component may be configured to implement a DSAAP protocol which may be defined over the Xe Xd and or X2 reference points. In various embodiments the Xe reference point between DSC and eNodeB may use the DSAAP protocol TR 069 protocol and or TR 192 data model extensions to support listing available resources at the eNodeB and notifying the eNodeB of bid buy confirmations. The Xd reference point between DSC and DPC may use the DSAAP protocol for dynamic spectrum and resource arbitrage operations. The X2 interface reference point between the eNodeBs may also use the DSAAP protocol to communicate information.

In various embodiments the DSAAP component s may be configured to allow the various DSA components e.g. DSC DPC eNodeB etc. to communicate using the DSAAP protocol and or to perform various DSAAP methods. DSAAP methods may be performed in any of the DSA systems discussed in this application such as a system that includes a first DSC server in a first telecommunication network e.g. a lessee network a second DSC server in second telecommunication network e.g. a lessor network and a DPC server that is outside of the first and second telecommunication networks.

The various embodiments may be implemented on a variety of mobile wireless computing devices an example of which is illustrated in . Specifically is a system block diagram of a mobile transceiver device in the form of a smartphone cell phone suitable for use with any of the embodiments. The cell phone may include a processor coupled to internal memory a display and to a speaker . Additionally the cell phone may include an antenna for sending and receiving electromagnetic radiation that may be connected to a wireless data link and or cellular telephone transceiver coupled to the processor . Cell phones typically also include menu selection buttons or rocker switches for receiving user inputs.

A typical cell phone also includes a sound encoding decoding CODEC circuit which digitizes sound received from a microphone into data packets suitable for wireless transmission and decodes received sound data packets to generate analog signals that are provided to the speaker to generate sound. Also one or more of the processor wireless transceiver and CODEC may include a digital signal processor DSP circuit not shown separately . The cell phone may further include a ZigBee transceiver i.e. an IEEE 802.15.4 transceiver for low power short range communications between wireless devices or other similar communication circuitry e.g. circuitry implementing the Bluetooth or WiFi protocols etc. .

The embodiments described above including the spectrum arbitrage functions may be implemented within a broadcast system on any of a variety of commercially available server devices such as the server illustrated in . Such a server typically includes a processor coupled to volatile memory and a large capacity nonvolatile memory such as a disk drive . The server may also include a floppy disc drive compact disc CD or DVD disc drive coupled to the processor . The server may also include network access ports coupled to the processor for establishing data connections with a network such as a local area network coupled to other communication system computers and servers.

The processors may be any programmable microprocessor microcomputer or multiple processor chip or chips that can be configured by software instructions applications to perform a variety of functions including the functions of the various embodiments described below. In some wireless devices multiple processors may be provided such as one processor dedicated to wireless communication functions and one processor dedicated to running other applications. Typically software applications may be stored in the internal memory before they are accessed and loaded into the processor . The processor may include internal memory sufficient to store the application software instructions. In some servers the processor may include internal memory sufficient to store the application software instructions. In some receiver devices the secure memory may be in a separate memory chip coupled to the processor . The internal memory may be a volatile or nonvolatile memory such as flash memory or a mixture of both. For the purposes of this description a general reference to memory refers to all memory accessible by the processor including internal memory removable memory plugged into the device and memory within the processor itself.

The foregoing method descriptions and the process flow diagrams are provided merely as illustrative examples and are not intended to require or imply that the steps of the various embodiments must be performed in the order presented. As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art the order of steps in the foregoing embodiments may be performed in any order. Words such as thereafter then next etc. are not intended to limit the order of the steps these words are simply used to guide the reader through the description of the methods. Further any reference to claim elements in the singular for example using the articles a an or the is not to be construed as limiting the element to the singular.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The hardware used to implement the various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DPC an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DPC and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DPC core or any other such configuration. Alternatively some steps or methods may be performed by circuitry that is specific to a given function.

In one or more exemplary aspects the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored as one or more instructions or code on a non transitory computer readable medium or non transitory processor readable medium. The steps of a method or algorithm disclosed herein may be embodied in a processor executable software module which may reside on a non transitory computer readable or processor readable storage medium. Non transitory computer readable or processor readable storage media may be any storage media that may be accessed by a computer or a processor. By way of example but not limitation such non transitory computer readable or processor readable media may include RAM ROM EEPROM FLASH memory CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that may be used to store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that may be accessed by a computer. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above are also included within the scope of non transitory computer readable and processor readable media. Additionally the operations of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes and or instructions on a non transitory processor readable medium and or computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product.

The preceding description of the disclosed embodiments is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the present invention. Various modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Thus the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the following claims and the principles and novel features disclosed herein.

