---

title: Composite quantum-dot materials for photonics detectors
abstract: A method of manufacturing a composite quantum-dot photodetector formed by alternatively dipping a substrate into a colloidal solution containing at least one type of a quantum dot, thereby forming a monolayer of the quantum dots and then dipping the substrate with the monolayer of the quantum dots into a ligand spacing solution to build a film of the quantum dots and then alternatively exposing the film of the quantum dots to a vapor and an infill material.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09466745&OS=09466745&RS=09466745
owner: Vadient Optics, LLC
number: 09466745
owner_city: Beaverton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151211
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. provisional patent application No. 62 090 776 filed on Dec. 11 2014.

This invention was made with government support under Contract H92222 12 P 0068 awarded by the United States Special Operations Command. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present disclosure relates in general to photodetectors. This application relates in particular to methods of manufacturing composite quantum dot photodetectors.

CMOS silicon imagers are the dominant focal plane arrays for visible light imaging. CMOS silicon imagers are implemented in multitude of applications from security cameras to cell phones. Due to silicon s band gap these imaging platforms are spectrally limited with primary applications in the human visible spectrum. As crystalline silicon is mostly transparent to light wavelengths longer than 1.1 m for the short wavelength infrared SWIR imagers use compound semiconductor materials including indium gallium arsenide InGaAs mercury cadmium telluride HgCdTe and germanium Ge . These compound semiconductor materials demonstrate good image performance but they do so at very high cost due to manufacturability and cost structure due to their incompatibility with commercial high volume CMOS silicon processes. This application relates to another approach.

The present disclosure is directed to methods of manufacturing composite pixelated quantum dot photodetector arrays. In one aspect the method comprises the following steps alternatively dipping a wafer or other substrate into a colloidal solution containing at least one type of a quantum dot thereby forming a monolayer of the quantum dots and then dipping the substrate with the monolayer of the quantum dots into a ligand spacing solution to build a film of the quantum dots and alternatively exposing the film of the quantum dots to a gas vapor and a metalorganic precursors material. Exposing the film to the vapor coats the film s accessible surfaces reacting with the infill material. Exposing the film to the inorganic matrix material penetrates pores of the film and reacts with the film s accessible surfaces to form an inorganic matrix. The inorganic matrix isolates the quantum dots from atmospheric exposure reducing the rate of local reaction to atmospheric oxygen thereby stabilizing the electrical properties of the device and stabilize the local density of states on the quantum dot surface. Also the infill semiconductor can provide a bandgap heterostructure interface to the quantum dot preserving local confinement of one or both of the charge carriers or promoting preferable injection or extraction of holes or electrons into or out of the infill or promoting preferential tunneling or hopping transport between quantum dots.

Referring now to the drawings wherein like components are designated by like reference numerals. Methods of manufacture and various embodiments of the present disclosure are described further herein below.

Referring to a partial view of a cross section of a composite quantum dot photodetector film has a photodetector film formed by a layer by layer deposition process to build homogenous and heterogeneous photodetector film on a substrate . One such process include alternatively dipping the substrate into a colloidal solution containing at least one type of a quantum dot thereby forming a monolayer of quantum dots and then dipping the substrate with monolayer of quantum dots in a ligand spacing solution to build a lattice of the quantum dots. Then alternatively exposing the lattice of the quantum dots to a water vapor and an infill materials leaves behind an inorganic material wherein exposing the film to the water vapor coats the lattice s accessible surfaces providing oxygen reaction and then exposing the lattice to the inorganic matrix material penetrates pores of the lattice and reacts with accessible surfaces to form an inorganic matrix thereby forming the photodetector film and isolating quantum dots from atmospheric exposure.

The infilling process is typically performed within a reactor wherein the accessible surfaces are exposed to a vapor or gas providing reactants to form the infill material. The excess precursor and volatile by products are purged via vacuum driven evaporation or chemical cleaning processes. The adsorbed layer of the first precursor reacts with the infill material which can be organic or inorganic where the reaction leaves behind the inorganic matrix material. The volatile byproducts and excess of the second precursor are likewise purged from the reactor to complete the process.

The process can be repeated to build the photodetector film using the same quantum dot type inorganic matrix material different materials and combinations thereof. For instance the colloidal solution can contain one or many quantum dot types or the infill material can be changed. On repeated process the quantum dot type or types the inorganic material or combinations thereof can be changed to create different homogenous or heterogonous layers thereby creating junctions with the photodetector film including semiconductor heterojunctions and heterostructured devices including p n p i n n B n and other such structures.

Referring to a quantum dot is representative of the various configurations and tuning possible. The quantum dots are nanometer sized particles with quantum confinement in all dimensions with energy band structure discrete at atomic like levels. As such the quantum dot resembles an artificial tunable atom with electronic energies controlled by quantum dot materials shape dimensions and material configuration. The extremely small size of the quantum dots make quantum confinement effects dominate their electro optical EO properties. When the quantum dots diameter is smaller than the Bohr radius of an electron hole pair or exciton created by photon absorption the quantum dot s energy state is discrete. The lowest energy optical transition increases as the particle size is reduced. Reduced quantum dot size causes a blue shift in the absorption and emission spectra. The greater the confinement the shorter the wavelength of the electron and the bluer the optical spectrum of the quantum dot. The quantum dots material type can include InSb InGaP PbS PbSe PbTe PbI HgS HgTe LaF CdS CulnS CuZnlnS CdSe HfO CIS CZTS YV B O ZnS ZrO including core core shell and core shell ligand architectures.

The quantum dots are solution processed to allow convenient deposition onto the substrate. The fluidic processed quantum dot s electro optical properties are determined by their size shape and composition. Here quantum dot has a core a shell and ligand coating . Core can be configured to be atomically homogenous or an alloy tunable by size and shape. Here core is circular with an alloy comprising a first atomic particle A and a second atomic particle B. Shell also referred to in the art as a coating can also be configured to be atomically homogenous or as an alloy with shape approximately conforming to the core dependent on the shell size or thickness. The shell can be tuned in relation to the core to modify electrical optical and electro optical characteristics of the quantum dot and chemical affinity to ligand coating discussed further hereinbelow. Here shell comprises of an atomic particle A. Ligand coating is an organic or inorganic material that coats the outside of the nanoparticle again altering the electrical chemical and optical characteristics of the quantum dot. Here the ligand coating is organic preventing aggregation when colloidally dispersed although it can be replaced by an inorganic ligand coating upon deposition. The ligand defines in part the spacing of the monolayer of quantum dots. In aggregate the combination of the core the shell and the ligand are tunable and thus the photodetector film has tunable properties including a tunable band gap based on composition of the quantum dots and infill material allowing sensitivity to optical radiation including ultraviolet visible infrared x ray and gamma photons.

The quantum dots have a large surface to volume ratio. For perspective nanoscale particles have approximately million times more surface area than a cm scale object detector with the same volume. The quantum dot s surface area and density of trap sites plays a significant role in the optoelectronic properties of the detector system. The quantum dot s large surface area and high surface energy causes particles including the surrounding quantum dots to agglomerate and oxidize which results in unstable performance and very short detector lifetimes. Typically the as synthesized quantum dots include a long chain organic molecule such as oleic acid to prevent agglomeration and preserve quantum confinement properties during synthesis storage and subsequent deposition onto the substrate and films.

To allow quantum tuning of electronic states in the photodetector film and promote transport of one or both carriers from the quantum dot into the inorganic matrix alloy s of the quantum dots can form type II or quasi type II heterostructured quantum dots. The type II and quasi type II heterostructured quantum dots can form type I or type II heterostructures with the photodetector film. Delocalizing the hole and electron orbitals with consideration of the local dielectric environment the desired bandgap is achieved and the valence and conduction bands are aligned to allow transport of one carrier through the matrix and another carrier through dot to dot tunneling. To reduce carrier recombination doping the quantum dot or the infill material optimizes bulk distributed heterostructure. Doping the quantum dots and aligning the band structures such that influence of the trap states can be controlled allows high carrier lifetimes and large carrier mobilities.

Referring to an energy band diagram shows the components of the quantum dots and accompanying conduction band and valence band. A simple core quantum dot is characterized by a core R with a conduction band C and a valence band V. A type I core shell quantum dot has a core R and a shell S with a conduction band C and a valance band V. A type II core shell quantum dot has a core R and a shell S with a conduction band C and a valance band V. A quasi type IIA core alloy quantum dot has a core R and a shell S with a conduction band C and a valance band V. A quasi type IIB core alloy quantum dot has a core R and a shell S with a conduction band C and a valance band V.

The aforementioned process include dipping the substrate into the ligand spacing solution. Replacing long fatty ligands such as oleic acid suitable with shorter length molecular linker to reduce the inter quantum dot spacing. Using short chain molecular linkers such as EDT reduces the inter quantum dot spacing lowering inter quantum dot energy barriers that govern charge tunneling and resulting in higher conductivity.

As aforementioned smaller linking molecule for the ligand coating make the quantum dots more susceptible to agglomeration and precipitation. It is possible to avoid this problem by after deposition by swapping the longer molecule ligands with shorter organic or inorganic ligands but shrinkage due to the reduction in bulk volume can lead to film cracking.

Using a layer by layer lbl deposition process the long chain molecule capped as synthesized quantum dots is used to deposit the monolayer. The monolayer is washed with the ligand spacing solution containing the short chained organic or inorganic ligands replacing the as synthesized long chain molecules by a short ligands creating a highly uniform quantum dot lattice with less internal stress.

The ligand spacing solution can include inorganic ligands that also passivate and dope the quantum dots. The ligand spacing solution can include inorganic small molecules including halides I Br Cl and pseudohalides N3 OCN SCN metal free chalcogenides oxo and amido species S2 HS Se2 HSe Te2 HTe TeS32 OH NH2 oxo and polyoxo metallates halometallates such as CH3NH3PbI3 and chalcogenidometallates SnS InSe CuS or AsS etc . These inorganic ligands passivate surface sites on the quantum dots and increase the carrier mobilities of the photodetector film reaching up to 50 cm2 V s within two orders of magnitude of bulk semiconductor values. This enhancement in charge transport originates from significantly reduced inter quantum dot distance and lowered energetic barrier between adjacent quantum dots.

The process allows superlattice films containing more than one type of the quantum dots. For example a layer of one type of composition of the quantum dot can be deposited washed with solvents and a ligand spacing solution then a second layer of different type of the quantum dots can be deposited. The monolayer compositions can change as the quantum dot lattice is grown. Several layers of one type of the quantum dots can be deposited until a desired thickness is achieved and then multiple layers of a second type of the quantum dot can be deposited to a desired thickness. Heterostructured photodetector films including p n p i n and other detector structures can be made contacted with metal electrodes and operated as photon detectors. These layers can have preferential carrier transport achieved through doping.

After depositing one or more of the monolayers of the quantum dots and accompanying ligand replacement the inter quantum dot spacing is infilled with the inorganic material to form the inorganic matrix. The inorganic material can be oxide or semiconductor material filling the spaces within the lattice. The infill can create or further promore type I or type II band alignment of the quantum dots. The electrical and dielectric properties of the infill material can be used further quantum tune the quantum dot electronic states to form conduction and valence offsets favorable for preferential carrier extraction and transport. These offsets take into account the local nanoscale dielectric properties.

A nonlimiting list of the infill material includes chalcogenides AsS PbS Pb Se metal oxides AlOwith trimethylammonium methylammonium lead halides CHNHPbX where X is a halogen such as iodine bromine or chlorine with an optical bandgap between 1.5 and 2.3 eV depending on halide content or formamidinium lead trihalide HNCHNHPbX . Methylammonium lead halides and formamidinium lead trihalide allow charge transport in perovskites over long distances with diffusion lengths of 1 2 m at room temperature using solution processing. The infill material leaves behind an inorganic material filling the lattice to form the inorganic matrix.

A large number of materials can be used to infill the lattice and form the inorganic matrix. Inorganic materials include oxides sulfides selenides tellurides nitrides fluorides and some metals. Many classes of compounds are used as metal reactants. The metal reactants used in ALD can be roughly divided into two groups inorganic and metal organic and these can be further categorized into elements halides alkyls cyclopentadienyls alkoxides b diketonates amides and imides phosphines silyls and amidinates. Alkyls which are organometallic reactants containing a direct metal carbon bond are generally very reactive but stable alkyls are not available for many metals and the deposition temperatures are limited because of the decomposition of the reactants. Chlorides which belong to the general class of halides are reactive stable at a broad temperature range and available for many metals but the deposited films may suffer from chlorine residues and film thickness gradients in the direction of flow formed by secondary reactions of the HCl eased in the reactions. The variety in non metal reactants is somewhat less than in metal reactants. The most commonly used types of non metal reactants are the hydrides of the non metal elements water HO ammonia NH and hydrogen sulphide HS to grow oxides nitrides and sulphides respectively. The advantage of these types of reactants is their generally high stability and reactivity in a broad temperature range including high temperatures.

The inorganic matrix infill materials can include oxides sulfides fluorides or combinations thereof including TiO AlO MgO SiO ZrO AlxZryOz InO HfO ZnS CaS BaS CdS PbS IN2S3 CuS WS2 TiS2 Sb2S3 SnS GaSx GeS MoS2 Li2S Bi2S3 As2S3 ZnF LaF. In sulfide growth thiol ligands provide a reactive starting surface analogous to hydroxyls in oxide ALD. The overall reaction can be written as ML x 2 HS MS xHL where MLis the precursor of metal M with x ligands L.

The inorganic matrix acts isolates the quantum dots from atmosphere suppressing oxidative and photo thermal degradation. The process both negates the oxidation instability that is otherwise inherent quantum dot based photodetectors and enhances the optoelectronic properties of the quantum dots. The inorganic matrix is the only component of the resulting composite that is accessible to the atmosphere. Because it is stable with respect to oxidation the composite as a whole is stable with respect to oxidation

In order to compliment the quantum dots with which it is paired there are several constraints that the matrix material must satisfy to preserve confinement of both hole and electron orbitals and have suitable use as a photodetector film. It must have a wide band gap so that it does not absorb light in the region of interest. It must not have energy levels within the band gap of the quantum dots so that it does not create trap states. It must have a vapor phase that can penetrate the quantum dot film at low temperatures so as to allow for infilling without destroying the quantum dots. Finally it must be stable and unaffected by oxygen exposure so that it can protect the quantum dots from their environment.

Once the quantum dot films have been encased in a suitable inorganic matrix they are stable with respect to oxidation over period of years. The detectors subsequently made from these films exhibit steady reproducible optoelectronic characteristics. Engineering the photodetector film must take into account the particular application and coulomb interactions between charges on the quantum dots within the lattice.

Long range coulomb interactions between charges on the quantum dots slow the dynamics of injected electrons an effect described by an electron coulomb glass model. To increase the electrical current through the photodetector film the tunneling of electrons between quantum dots must be enhanced. As introduced directly above this can be achieved by decreasing the inter quantum dot distance and height of the tunnel barriers between quantum dots in the array. As inter quantum dot distances are reduced using short inorganic ligands changes in transport properties result from decreased separation and chemical transformation of the surface. As packing of the quantum dots increases the density of trap states can increase preventing carriers in the photodetector films from obtaining the long carrier lifetimes required for high performance detector operation. Instead of only considering the inter quantum dot spacing the applicants realize tuning the photodetector composition the organic or inorganic ligand shells used to coat them and the electrical properties of the infill materials enhance both hole and electron mobilities and lifetimes.

Doping generally refers to the large variety of techniques to perturb and control carrier concentrations in the photodetector films. The preservation of nanocrystal size and film morphology during these doping treatments ensures that the optical and transport properties are largely maintained.

The electronic states of a semiconductor can be characterized as either being donor or acceptor in nature. Donor states are electrostatically neutral when occupied by an electron and positively charged when empty D 0 while conversely acceptor states are neutral when empty and negatively charged when occupied A 0 . Carrier concentrations and majority carrier type emerge from the requirement to balance all of the ionized donor and acceptor states within the system. At thermal equilibrium a given donor acceptor has an ionization probability determined by the Fermi Dirac distribution. Thermal excitation of valence electrons over the energy barrier of the bandgap results in an intrinsic carrier concentration. The intrinsic carrier concentration specifies the balance without external excitation between electrons and holes via the law of mass action. This relationship also holds for nondegenerate extrinsically doped semiconductors as any donor acceptor states must also be in thermal equilibrium. Defect states can shift the balance of electrons and holes but never change the p n product in the nondegenerate regime. Defects can give rise to ionized dopant states. Native space charge can be compensated by doping comparable amounts of immobile charge of opposite polarity.

In heterovalent doping impurities in a different valence state than the host cations are intentionally incorporated to provide either extra electrons n type or extra holes p type . These carriers can introduce extrinsic conductivity to an otherwise poorly conducting material. The quantum dots can be doped n type and p type through the use of indium tin aluminum silver or other noble metal. In a nucleation doping approach the dopant and host precursors are mixed during the nucleation step. The reaction conditions and precursor reactivities are tuned so that the dopants nucleate first. The nuclei are then overcoated with a shell of the host material creating a core dopant shell structure with a sharp or graded interface depending on the shell growth temperature. In the growth doping approaches are available where a dopant precursors is added to quantum dot to adsorb dopants at the quantum dot surfaces. The dopant ions are then encapsulated by overgrowing an isocrystalline or heterocrystalline shell. A balance of reactivity is achieved when the dopant atoms remain on the quantum dot s surface for a long enough time to undergo a precipitation reaction and to become trapped by host overgrowth.

One way to balance host and dopant precursor reactivity is to choose the appropriate coordinating ligand to the metal cations depending on the intrinsic reactivity dictated by their relative Lewis acidity. These considerations relate directly to the thermodynamic stability of metal ligand bonds but they have implications also for kinetic reactivity i.e. rates of precipitation reactions . This connection can be appreciated by remembering that transition state theory can be used to predict changes in energetic reaction barriers due to variations in the free energy of the reactants. In some cases rather different Lewis acidities can be overcome without requiring different coordinating ligands on the host and dopant precursors.

The quantum dots have high surface area to volume ratios exposing a myriad of surface defects that can produce midgap defect states. Strong affinity between cations and nucleophilic ligands during synthesis leads to quantum dots with nonstoichiometric cores that are charge balanced by a ligand shell. Despite being nonstoichiometric natively synthesized quantum dots are not heavily doped because the excess charge of the surface cations is compensated by their binding ligands. Synthetically modifying the stoichiometry of nanocrystals is often difficult as changing precursor concentrations can result in different sized particles instead of stoichiometric variations.

Doping of the effective medium originates from nonstoichiometry ligands and unpassivated surface sites which shift the balance of space charge within the film and generate free carriers. Simultaneously many of the free carriers are likely localized to traps of similar chemical origin possibly due to self compensation and the Fermi level is often pinned. Despite this a broad range of electrochemical potential shifts can be induced in native films through methods based on stoichiometric control metal ion incorporation and electrochemical charging.

When native ligands are removed as part of a ligand exchange a variety of midgap states can form and cause doping or carrier trapping depending on their depth and donor acceptor type. In addition to exposing unpassivated surface sites the choice of ligand also crucially determines the protection of surfaces from oxidation. Ligands can also play an active role in doping the photodetector films either through modulating defect depths and densities or through acting as charge donors themselves.

Since nonstoichiometry and charge balance are often the origin of native doping in nanocrystal films using postsynthetic techniques to control the stoichiometry of a film is a logical tactic to control its doping. The overall doping effect of a given treatment can be understood by considering the average charge balance of all the atomic and molecular constituents of a film

Doping through ion diffusion case is growth doping wherein the dopants are introduced in a preformed quantum dot through diffusion. Cation exchange reactions in which the cation of an ionic solid can be exchanged with a different cation have been widely employed in semiconductor quantum dot. In bulk semiconductor material the phenomenon can require weeks and require elevated temperature the exchange in the quantum dots can be done within seconds and at room temperature. The extent of the cation exchange reactions can be controlled by changing the solution concentration of incoming cations or the ligands that coordinate the ions in solution to modulate the contribution of ion solvation in the overall energetic balance of the reaction. In the nanosize regime surface adsorption of dopant ions can be followed by lattice incorporation above a certain critical temperature also lattice diffusion and eventually lattice ejection of the dopants can occur upon thermal treatment.

Chemical redox agents solubilized molecular species with known reduction potentials can efficiently inject charge into the photodetector film. These approaches result in high doping densities as the reactions are only stoichiometrically or kinetically restrained.

As aforementioned the photodetector film can be made using organic or inorganic ligands with additional inorganic coating or infill materials these detector films may exhibit the oxidation instability mentioned earlier. However this instability is substantially reduced using low temperature vapor deposition of an inorganic matrix. Such a process infills the pores of the quantum dot solid films with the inorganic matrix. In the mean field approximation the average dielectric constant of the medium around each quantum dot m can be estimated as the volume weighted average of dielectric constants for the organic spacer and for the quantum dot. With tighter packing the mean dielectric constant increases due to the increasing volume fraction of inorganic particles. With infilling the dielectric value is a volume weighted average of the quantum dots and the infill inorganic material. The infill material s dielectric causes a corresponding modification in electronic states within the quantum dot due to selective delocalization of the hole and electron orbitals. As a result when choosing the quantum dot size matrix material dielectric properties must be considered. For example if a wide bandgap metal oxide infill is used the electron and hole orbitals can be confined by the wide bandgap infill material. If a narrow bandgap semiconductor infill is used the electron and hole orbitals can be localized or delocalized based on the properties of the infill.

Either or both carriers can transport through the films tunneling dot to dot. If a semiconductor infill is used electrical states aligned with the density of states of the valence or conduction bands of the quantum dots the hole or electron respectively can be injected into the infill material and can be transported through the infill semiconductor material.

Using the aforementioned processes a variety of composite photodetector can be manufactured such as pn pin and nBn devices. The photodetector film can be tailored to provide local quantum dot to quantum dot distributed nano hetereostructures can be made for efficient transport of one carrier for example the minority carrier through the inorganic matrix s higher conductivity pathways and allow the other carrier to transport by quantum dot to quantum dot hopping. The photodetectors can be single pixel or pixelated. The pixelated photodetectors can have pixel areas defined by electrode spacing or by dielectric barriers.

Referring to a photodetector device has a photodetector film with a pn junction . Photodetector film is comprised of a p type film and a n type quantum dot film . P type film is comprised of a quantum dot Q within an inorganic matrix material with a p type quantum dot composition. Photodetector film is comprised of a quantum dot Q within an inorganic matrix material I with an n type quantum dot composition. Photodetector film was deposited on a substrate with semiconductor quantum dots and semiconductor infill material via the aforementioned processes. The photodetector film layers are shown for illustrative purposes only the quantum dot types can be different with each of the films and within the monolayers that the films comprises. Here photodetector is pixelated with a substrate patterned with a readout integrated circuitry ROIC including a bottom electrode A and a bottom electrode A. An electrode B and an electrode B is deposited on the photodetector film define a photodetector pixel area A and B providing a pixelated circuit. Top electrode B and top electrode B can be a transparent conductive material or a metal deposited using evaporative or direct deposition processing including lithographic or inkjet printing techniques.

Referring to a photodetector device has a photodetector film with an nBn configuration. A photodetector film is comprised of a n type film and an n type film with a barrier film creating a nB junction and . n type film is comprised of a quantum dot Q within an inorganic matrix material with a n type composition. A carrier blocking barrier film is comprised of a quantum dot Q within an inorganic matrix material I configured to have a wide bandgap and act as a barrier for non preferred carriers for either blocking holes but not electrons or blocking electrons but not holes. An n type film is comprised of a quantum dot Q within an inorganic matrix material with a n type composition Similar to that shown in photodetector device has a substrate patterned with a readout integrated circuitry ROIC including a bottom electrode A a bottom electrode A an top electrode B and a top electrode B. Here pixel areas are defined by a dielectric barrier .

From the description provided herein one skilled in the art can manufacture the apparatus and practice the methods disclosed in accordance with the present disclosure. In summary while the present invention has been described in terms of particular embodiments and examples others can be implemented without departing in scope. The invention is not limited to the embodiments described and depicted herein. Rather the invention is limited only by the claims appended hereto.

