---

title: System for harvesting water wave energy
abstract: A generator for harvesting energy from water in motion includes a sheet of a hydrophobic material, having a first side and an opposite second side, that is triboelectrically more negative than water. A first electrode sheet is disposed on the second side of the sheet of a hydrophobic material. A second electrode sheet is disposed on the second side of the sheet of a hydrophobic material and is spaced apart from the first electrode sheet. Movement of the water across the first side induces an electrical potential imbalance between the first electrode sheet and the second electrode sheet.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09394875&OS=09394875&RS=09394875
owner: Georgia Tech Research Corporation
number: 09394875
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150805
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 62 033 408 filed Aug. 5 2014 the entirety of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under agreement No. DE FG02 07ER46394 awarded by the Department of Energy. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to systems for harvesting energy from water motion and more specifically systems that employ the triboelectric effect to harvest water energy.

Ambient water motion presented in forms of river flows ocean tides and waves and even rain drops contain a gigantic reserve of renewable mechanical energy. Taking advantage of this energy has major significance in grid level energy generation by large scale power plants for public utilities in order to relieve our sole reliance on limited fossil fuels. Moreover it also provides a viable route to fulfilling on site power demand for long term operation of self powered autonomous systems such as off grid and stand alone facilities or remote sensor networks. Most of previously demonstrated converters for water motions depended on normal electromagnetic generators that were bulky and heavy in order for decent output power and conversion efficiency. Besides they usually required other essential components such as an absorber that collected ambient water motions and a turbine that drove the generator which further expanded the size of the system and added complicity as well as cost. Moreover natural water motions especially waves can be categorized into a number of forms and not all of them are suitable for driving a turbine. Therefore a small sized lightweight cost effective and all in one approach that can directly interact with water bodies is greatly desirable as a key to solving to the problems above.

Initial efforts with this regard included flexible piezoelectric strips so called eels that undulated in water flow as driven by vortices shed from an upstream bluff body and low dimensional carbon nanostructure e.g. carbon nanotubes and few layered graphene over which voltages were induced when polar liquids flew. In the former design reciprocating strained eels posed a major challenge to prolonged operation due to mechanical fatigue especially of electrodes while the latter was restricted by materials availability and by ion concentrations in waters. Besides both of them only harnessed constant water currents leaving other forms of water motions largely intact.

One aspect of the invention is a liquid solid electrification enabled generator LSEG for harvesting energy from a variety of water motions. Coupled with electrostatic induction surface triboelectric charges resulting from interaction with water induce free electrons to flow alternatingly between electrodes as the device has repeatedly varying contact area with the surrounding water body. Having a planar structure 6 cm by 3 cm by 50 um one layer of the LSEG generates an optimum average output power of 0.12 mW at a relative velocity of 0.5 m s. Nanowire based modification from polymer nanowires plays a key role in obtaining such an output power. The all in one LSEG does not require extra mechanical components for capturing or transmitting mechanical motions and its stationary and strain free design has electrodes fully imbedded and secured without any movable parts which ensures its durability and reliability for long term operation. Made from conventional polymeric materials it is highly cost effective and easily scalable in size. An integrated LSEG with an array of electrodes is demonstrated as a power source for tens of LED bulbs by harvesting ambient energy from waving water surface and even falling water drops explicitly demonstrating the potential of deploying the LSEG on ocean river surface at coastal offshore areas and even in rainy places for applications such as monitoring surveillance and navigation.

In another aspect the invention is a triboelectric nanogenerator TENG that is employed for harvesting large scale water wave energy. Relying on surface contact electrification effect between the conventional polymers and very thin layer of metal as electrodes the TENG NW TENG employing nanowires is extremely light weight low cost high anticorrosion to the marine environment and capable of floating on the surface of water for wave energy harvesting. By using the collision of a rolling ball caused contact and separation the TENG converts the slow random and high force all directional oscillatory motions into electricity.

In another aspect the invention is a generator for harvesting energy from water in motion that includes a sheet of a hydrophobic material having a first side and an opposite second side that is triboelectrically more negative than water. A first electrode sheet is disposed on the second side of the sheet of a hydrophobic material. A second electrode sheet is disposed on the second side of the sheet of a hydrophobic material and is spaced apart from the first electrode sheet. Movement of the water across the first side induces an electrical potential imbalance between the first electrode sheet and the second electrode sheet.

In yet another aspect the invention is a generator for harvesting energy from water in motion that includes a confining frame. At least one contact mode triboelectric nanogenerator is disposed within the confining frame. An inertial member is disposed within the confining frame. The inertial member has at least one degree of freedom of movement and is disposed to be able to impart force on the at least one contact mode triboelectric nanogenerator when the confining frame is moved during wave action thereby causing the triboelectric generator to generate and electrical current.

These and other aspects of the invention will become apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments taken in conjunction with the following drawings. As would be obvious to one skilled in the art many variations and modifications of the invention may be effected without departing from the spirit and scope of the novel concepts of the disclosure.

A preferred embodiment of the invention is now described in detail. Referring to the drawings like numbers indicate like parts throughout the views. Unless otherwise specifically indicated in the disclosure that follows the drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale. As used in the description herein and throughout the claims the following terms take the meanings explicitly associated herein unless the context clearly dictates otherwise the meaning of a an and the includes plural reference the meaning of in includes in and on. 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 598 132 filed on Aug. 29 2012 by Wang et al. and published as US 2013 0049531 A1 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 189 656 filed on Feb. 25 2014 by Wang et al. and published as US 2014 0246950 A1 each disclose methods of fabricating and operation of triboelectric generators and are therefore incorporated herein by reference.

A basic unit of the LSEG is shown in . On one side of a fluorinated ethylene propylene FEP thin film two parallel strip shaped electrodes and are fabricated which are discrete with a fine gap in between. The other side of the FEP layer modified to intentionally create patterned surface roughness at nano scale as shown in the detail of surface roughness through nanowires directly interacts with ambient water to generate surface triboelectric charges at the liquid solid interface. The vertically aligned nanowires about 100 nm in diameter and about 2 m in length are for promoting the output power of the LSEG by enhancing contact area with the water . FEP is chosen for a number of reasons. Primarily it is the most negative material that is commercially available with respect to triboelectric polarity which enables superior surface charging ability compared with other materials. Other advantageous features including heat resistance radiation stability and chemical inertness makes FEP a desirable and durable material for underwater operation. The fabricated layer may be applied onto a substrate for quantitative measurement.

The operation of the LSEG relies on a repetitive emerging submerging process with travelling water waves as shown in and in in which the coupling between triboelectrification and electrostatic induction gives rise to alternating flows of electrons between electrodes and . Contact electrification between a triboelectrically negative material e.g. a fluorinated polymer and water generate surface triboelectric charges at the contact interface with negative charges on the solid surface. Generally this charging phenomenon is explained using an interfacial electrical double layer model which takes into account the ions in the liquid adsorbed onto the solid surface. After interacting with water the FEP surface retains a layer of negative surface charges that do not dissipate in an extended period of time as shown in . The nanowires fabricated on the surface of the film make it hydrophobic so that water is repelled immediately after the descending of the water surface. As shown in once electrode A is partially submerged by the rising water wave positive charges in water such as hydroxonium screen the negative triboelectric charges on the FEP surface by forming an interfacial electrical double layer. As a result unbalanced electric potential between the two electrodes due to the asymmetric distribution of charges drive free electrons to flow from electrode B to electrode A until the device is submerged halfway as shown in then corresponds to the state with the maximum quantity of induced charges on the electrodes and . As electrode B starts to be sunk in the water induced electrons flow back to electrode B since the electric potential distribution varies towards equilibrium as shown in . Finally when the device is completely covered by water triboelectric charges are entirely screened. Consequently all induced charges vanish as shown in similar to the state shown in . If the wave then recedes another alternating cycle of the current is then produced as shown in . Therefore the generated electricity is attributed to the sequential process of contact electrification and asymmetric screening enabled electrostatic induction.

In one experimental embodiment for quantitative measurement relative motion between the LSEG and water was achieved by a linear electric motor that drove the LSEG for reciprocating motion at controlled velocities. Here regular tap water was used. As shown in the short circuit current I has an alternating behavior with an amplitude of 3 A at a velocity of 0.5 m s. The total amount of induced charges in one cycle reaches 75 nC as shown in . An open circuit voltage of about 160 V was achieved as shown in .

In open circuit condition electrons cannot transfer between electrodes. During interaction with water the open circuit voltage V defined as the electric potential difference between the two electrodes remains 0 at both the emerged as shown in and submerged states as shown in . It reaches the maximum when the water surface levels with the middle point of the generator as shown in . Based on the model of infinitely large charged planes without consideration of edge effect the Vcan be analytical expressed by the following equation 

Once an external load is applied the amplitude of the output current drops as the load resistance increases. Here the average output power is defined by the following equation 3 where Iis the root mean value of the current amplitude and R is the external load resistance. The average output power reaches the optimum value of 0.12 mW at the matched load of 80 M . The energy conversion efficiency of this device is calculated to be around 7.7 . The detailed analysis is presented in Supporting Information.

Here three categories of factors were investigated to determine how to tune the electric output of the LSEG i.e. velocity of the relative movement aspect ratio of the device and ion concentration of the water body.

Firstly relative velocity is a major factor that influences the electric output. It is interesting to notice that both the Vand induced charges have approximately linear relationship with the velocity respectively. The induced charges increase both by around 100 as the velocity increases from 0.1 m s to 0.5 m s which is possibly attributed to velocity dependent surface charging density. More triboelectric charges are generated on the FEP surface if more dynamic interaction with the water is involved which was observed in previous studies on electrification between a fluorinated polymer and water. Further systematic investigations on kinetics of the charge generation process are needed to provide more insights into the velocity dependent electric output. Since the current amplitude is determined by two factors that is charge quantity and velocity. When both of the factors increase the current rises at an increasing rate.

Secondly design parameters especially aspect ratio of the device also have a decisive effect on the electric output of the LSEG. It was observed that pre existing charges in the water can influence subsequent charge transfer with a solid surface. Specifically the water may have weaker ability to charge the solid surface once it already carries opposite charges. Here in our measurement the LSEG was driven by a linear motor to have relative sliding with the static water body. As a result it is the surface part of the water that actually has charge transfer with the LSEG surface. Once the LSEG starts to dip into the water the surface part of the water is positively charged instantaneously. Subsequent electrification as the LSEG continues to dip in will become weaker due to the increasing pre existing positive charges in the water. Therefore it is very likely that the top part of the LSEG may have smaller surface charging density compared to the lower part. Given that the area is fixed a narrower LSEG with a higher aspect ratio has shorter interaction distance with the water more surface triboelectric charges and then higher electric output accordingly. It is noticed that the Iis again influenced to a larger extent. Therefore fine feature of the electrode plays a key role in designing the high performance LSEG.

Thirdly ion concentration or conductivity of the water body also plays an important role. In a control experiment the tap water was replaced by saturated sodium chloride solution with extremely high concentration of ions. Induced charges 40 lower were obtained with the same device as well as the same moving velocity. This is because low ion concentration assists generation of the triboelectric charges while high concentration has the opposite effect. Even with the highest possible concentration the LSEG can still provide an electric output power although at a mildly reduced magnitude which is an indicator true applicability of our device in natural water bodies.

In addition the effect of the nanostructured surface modification is clear in that devices with the nanowires provide an average enhancement in induced charges by 50 in comparison to those without the modification. Here the nanostructured LSEG surface interacts between the bulk water body instead of a single static water droplet and the dynamic interaction involves kinetic energy due to the non stop emerging and submerging processes. As a result the water can infiltrate at least largely if not completely into the aligned nanowires even though they are hydrophobic. Then higher surface contact area and enhanced electric output can be obtained.

Instead of being driven by an electric motor for quantitative measurement an integrated LSEG I LSEG with a scaled up design was further tested in normal environment where energy from ambient water motions was harvested. The I LSEG consists of 6 strip shaped electrodes with each having lateral dimensions of 20 cm by 6 mm. Then a total of 5 basic units were formed by any pair of adjacent electrodes. The electric output of each pair was firstly rectified through an electric bridge and then constructively superimposed through parallel connection. In the first demonstration the I LSEG was vertically fixed in a water container with a tilting angle of 30 away from the vertical position. The water surface was level with the lower edge of the device. The container was then gently tilted back and forth to create travelling waves that washed the I LSEG in a reciprocating way similar to the circumstance along the seashore and the riverbank. Pulses of dc current are produced. Since the totally 5 units interact with the water sequentially instead of simultaneously they result in 5 current pulses that merge together but with timing mismatch. The generated electricity could light up tens of LED bulbs proving the capability of LSEG as a power source for electronics. This demonstration clearly indicates that our device can be potentially used along the seaside riverside area. Besides in company with a buoy the LSEG can also be possibly deployed offshore on the ocean surface.

In light of the operating principle that only requires changing of the contact area with water we further demonstrated energy harvesting from falling water or rain drops. The I LSEG was still braced with the same tilting angle. A sprinkler head was used to spray water onto the device. As the water accumulated droplets slid across the I LSEG surface in perpendicular to the electrode array. Since a moving droplet could momentarily cover part of the device electricity was generated as the droplet crossed boundaries between adjacent electrodes. With numerous droplets a large number of current pulses merged together leading to an apparent continuous dc output. Larger water droplets tend to create more fluctuation in the output current but not greatly change the overall performance. The electric output was again sufficient to power the LED bulbs. This demonstration further expands the applicability of the LSEG providing a new means of energy harvesting from a largely unexploited energy source namely natural precipitation.

One embodiment is a single component energy converter that is made from thin film materials. Without having any movable component it generates electricity through triboelectric effect at the solid liquid interface when directly interacting with ambient water bodies showing a practically feasible technology for harvesting part of the wave energy.

As shown in another embodiment of a triboelectric generator TENG for harvesting wave energy employs an arch shaped top and bottom plates with a multilayer core. Both the top and bottom plates are made of polyethylene terephthalate naturally bent by a heat treatment which helps to carry out the action of effective charge separation and contact using the elasticity of the film. The top and bottom plates each have vertical walls extending inwardly therefrom and a lateral plate being supported by the vertical walls . In one embodiment an acrylic lateral plate is held between the top and bottom plates . A copper electrode plate is disposed on the inward surface of each of the lateral plates and a triboelectric layer such as a PTFE film is applied thereto. The triboelectric layer is textured with a nanoscale texture such as with nanowires extending inwardly from the triboelectric layer film . An electrode layer such as an aluminum layer is supported on each side of the lateral plate . The aluminum layer would typically include a plurality of nanoscale pores opening to its surface. Holding a sandwiched structure both the upper layer and bottom layer of the functional core is polytetrafluoroethylene PTFE film with deposited copper as back electrodes. PTFE nanowires arrays were created on the exposed PTFE surface by a top down method through reactive ion etching which largely enhance the charge density of contact electrification. A scanning electron microscopy SEM image of vertically aligned PTFE nanowires is shown in which indicates that the average clustering diameter of FEP nanowires is 54 3 nm with an average length of 1.5 0.5 m. Aluminum thin film with nanoporous surface is sandwiched between the top and bottom layers of the functional core playing dual roles as an electrode and a contact surface. An SEM image of nanopores on the aluminum is shown in the detail of . The average diameter and depth of the aluminum nanopores are 57 5 nm and 0.8 0.2 m respectively with a distribution density of 212 per m. Acrylic was selected as the structural supporting material owing to its decent strength light weight good machinability and low cost.

The fundamental working principle of the TENG is based on the coupling between contact electrification and electrostatic induction as shown in and . Here both two dimensional schematic illustrations of charge distribution up and potential distribution by COMSOL down were used for illustration. When an external force for example the collision from a rolling ball is applied to the top plate of the TENG which brings the two layers of PTFE into contact with the middle aluminum layers simultaneously charge transfer occurs at the contact interfaces. According to the triboelectric series electrons are injected from aluminum into PTFE since PTFE is much more triboelectrically negative than aluminum generating positive triboelectric charges on the aluminum and negative ones on the PTFE as shown in . Subsequently if the collision disappeared the elasticity of the arch shaped plates will lead to a separation between the PTFE and the aluminum . As a result the positive triboelectric charges and the negative ones no longer coincide on the same plane and generate an inner dipole moment between the two sets of contact surfaces. Such a dipole moment drives free electrons from the copper electrode to the aluminum electrode to balance out the electric field producing positively induced charges on the copper electrode as shown in . And the flow of electrons lasts until the upper plate reaches the highest point where the corresponding separation is maximized as shown in . Continuously a reduced separation between the contact surfaces will weakened the dipole moment free electrons flow back to the copper electrode until the two contact surfaces come into contact as shown in making a complete cycle of electricity generation process. Consequently the kinetic energy from the water wave induced consecutive ball collisions result in a periodical changing electric field that drives reciprocating flows of electrons between electrodes producing alternating current in the external circuit.

One embodiment of a motion driven TENG NW unit is shown in . This embodiment can be used to generate electricity from water wave motion. The TENG NW unit includes a support frame in which is disposed four TENGs and a relatively movable inertial mass such as a rolling ball. As the TENG NW unit is moved for example by wave action the inertial mass is rolled into a TENG causing them to compress. As the inertial mass rolls away from a TENG the TENG decompresses.

In an experimental study of the performance of a single unit of a TENG NW unit for energy harvesting a first step was to trigger the TENG by a ball collision as driven by gravity. A simple measurement platform was established resort to that a 160 gram metal ball was controlled to collide at the center of the top plate with tunable acceleration and displacement. The voltage amplitude is an increasing function of the both acceleration and displacement of the rolling ball. Likewise the current amplitude follows a same trend. And the open circuit voltage and short circuit current induced by the ball collision at acceleration of 10 m sand a displacement of 9 cm shot up to 569.9 V and 0.93 mA. The current amplitude drops with increasing load resistance owing to the ohmic loss while the voltage follows a reverse trend. As a result the instantaneous peak power is maximized at a load resistance of 1 M corresponding to a peak power density of 0.26 mW cm.

To extrapolate the capability of the TENG NW unit for large scale blue energy harvesting the TENG NW unit with a single unit was considered. The generated average power Ein a single current peak can be calculated as 

where Iand Vare the average short circuit current and open circuit voltage for the single unit which are 50 A and 180 V respectively. t is the peak width of the short circuit current with a value of 0.0184 s. And is a factor in a range of 0 to 1. For a rough estimation assuming 0.5. Submit all the value into eq 1 Eis calculated to be 82.8 J.

Regarding a single unit of the TENG NW unit one collision will generate two current peaks with identical I t consequently the generated average power Ein one collision can be estimated as 2

Features as extremely light weight high anticorrosion to the marine environment it is reasonable to construct the TENG NW unit with a depth of 5 meters in the ocean then the generated energy in a water area of 1 square kilometer per second could be estimated as 5 m 1 km

Consequently an average power output of 1.15 MW was expected in a water area of 1 kilometer square for the reported TENG NW unit . To demonstrate its feasibility as a practical power source a small scale TENG NW unit was developed with four units connected in parallel. As displayed in a small TENG NW unit with 4 units is floating on the water surface of a home swimming pool. As a light wind passed by the aroused gentle wave can start to drive the TENG NW unit which is capable of realizing a self powered SOS system for ocean emergency. As shown in a plurality of TENG NW units can be coupled together in a web that can be used to harvest wave energy over a large area.

Creatively harnessing the surface charging effect between the conventional polymers and very thin layer of metal as electrodes the triboelectrification based TENG NW unit features as light weight extremely cost effective easy implementation environmentally friendly high anticorrosion to the marine environment and capable of floating on the water surface. Through rational structural design the reported TENG NW unit excels in conversion of the slow random and high force oscillatory motions into electricity. And an average power output of 1.15 MW was expected in a water area of 1 square kilometer. And a multi layer electrical connection for the TENG NW unit is proposed. Resort to tuning the numbers of units communities in the TENG NW unit the current and voltage parameters including amplitudes peak density frequency as well as the output power is designable. From the perspective of system configuration the TENG NW unit concept still paves a unique way in power management for the triboelectrification based large scale energy harvesting. Holding a high sensitivity to external wave motion the present TENG NW unit can not only be used to harvest strong wave motion from ocean but also can be applied in various other circumstances where the wave is gentle such as in a lake river or home swimming pool.

The above described embodiments while including the preferred embodiment and the best mode of the invention known to the inventor at the time of filing are given as illustrative examples only. It will be readily appreciated that many deviations may be made from the specific embodiments disclosed in this specification without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the scope of the invention is to be determined by the claims below rather than being limited to the specifically described embodiments above.

