---

title: Enhanced predictive input utilizing a typeahead process
abstract: Particular embodiments may retrieve information associated with one or more nodes of a social graph from one or more data stores. A node may comprise a user node or a concept node. Each node may be connected by edges to other nodes of a social graph. A first user may be associated with a first user node of the social graph. Particular embodiments may detect that the first user is entering an input term. Predictive typeahead results may be provided as the first user enters the input term. The predictive typeahead results may be based on the input term. Each predictive typeahead result may include at least one image. Each predictive typeahead result may correspond to at least one node of the social graph.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09575956&OS=09575956&RS=09575956
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09575956
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150602
---
This application is a continuation under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 631 489 filed 28 Sep. 2012.

The present disclosure relates generally to social networking and more particularly to an integrated social network environment and social graph map based on the social network environment that includes nodes representing users and concepts in the social network environment as well as edges that define or represent connections between such nodes. The present disclosure relates to processes for utilizing information extracted from the social graph to dynamically determine recommendations such as recommended web pages corresponding to recommended nodes for display to a user of the social network environment as the user is entering an input into a computing device.

Computer users are able to access and share vast amounts of information through various local and wide area computer networks including proprietary networks as well as public networks such as the Internet. Typically a web browser installed on a user s computing device facilitates access to and interaction with information located at various network servers identified by for example associated uniform resource locators URLs . Conventional approaches to enable sharing of user generated content include various information sharing technologies or platforms such as social networking websites. Such websites may include be linked with or provide a platform for applications enabling users to view profile pages created or customized by other users where visibility and interaction with such profiles by other users is governed by some characteristic set of rules. By way of example a user profile may include such user declared information as contact information background information job career information as well as interests.

A traditional social network is a social structure made of individuals groups entities or organizations generally referred to as nodes which are tied connected by one or more specific types of interdependency. Social network graph analysis views social relationships in terms of network theory consisting of nodes and edges. Nodes are the individual actors within the networks and edges are the relationships between the actors. The resulting graph based structures are often very complex. There can be many kinds of edges between nodes. In its simplest form a social network or social graph is a map of all of the relevant edges between all the nodes being studied.

The figures depict various embodiments of the present disclosure for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles of the invention described herein.

Particular embodiments relate to a social network environment that includes an infrastructure or platform hereinafter infrastructure and platform may be used interchangeably enabling an integrated social network environment. In the present disclosure the social network environment may be described in terms of a social graph including social graph information. In particular embodiments one or more computing systems of the social network environment implementing the social network environment include store or have access to a data structure that includes social graph information for use in implementing the social network environment described herein. In particular embodiments the social graph information includes a first set of user nodes that each correspond to a respective user and a second set of concept nodes that each correspond to a respective concept. As used herein a user may be an individual human user an entity e.g. an enterprise business or third party application or a group e.g. of individuals or entities that interacts or communicates with or over such a social network environment. As used herein a concept may refer to virtually anything that a user may declare or otherwise demonstrate an interest in a like towards or a relationship with such as by way of example a sport a sports team a genre of music a musical composer a hobby a business enterprise an entity a group a third party application a celebrity a person who is not a registered user etc. In particular embodiments each node has represents or is represented by a corresponding web page profile page hosted or accessible in the social network environment. By way of example a user node may have a corresponding user profile page in which the corresponding user can add content make declarations and otherwise express him or herself while a concept node may have a corresponding concept profile page hub in which a plurality of users can add content make declarations and express themselves particularly in relation to the concept. In particular embodiments the social graph information further includes a plurality of edges that each define or represent a connection between a corresponding pair of nodes in the social graph.

In some embodiments each edge may be one of a plurality of edge types based at least in part on the types of nodes that the edge connects in the social graph. By way of example in one particular embodiment each edge from a first edge type defines a connection between a pair of user nodes from the first set while each edge from a second edge type defines a connection between a user node from the first set and a concept node from the second set. Furthermore each edge from a third edge type may define a connection between a pair of concept nodes from the second set. In such embodiments the edge itself may store or be stored with data that defines a type of connection between the pair of nodes the edge connects such as for example data describing the types of the nodes the edge connects e.g. user or concept access privileges of an administrator of one of the pair of nodes connected by the edge with respect to the other node the edge connects to e.g. read or write access of an administrator of one node with respect to the other node connected by the edge or data describing how or why the edge was first initialized or created e.g. in response to an explicit user action or declaration or automatically without an explicit user action the strength of the connection as determined by various factors or criteria related to or shared by the nodes connected by the edge among other suitable or relevant data. In an alternate embodiment each edge may simply define or represent a connection between nodes regardless of the types of nodes the edge connects that is the edge itself may store or be stored with identifiers of the nodes the edge connects but may not store or be stored with data that describes a type of connection between the pair of nodes the edge connects. Furthermore in any of these or other embodiments data that may indicate the type of connection or relationship between nodes connected by an edge may be stored with the nodes themselves.

Particular embodiments further relate to a method for automatically generating nodes and edges based on information currently being entered by a user of a social network environment. In particular embodiments one or more client side and or backend server side processes implement and utilize a typeahead feature to automatically attempt to match concepts corresponding to respective existing nodes to information currently being entered by a user in an input form rendered in conjunction with a requested web page such as a user profile page which may be hosted or accessible in by the social network environment. In particular embodiments when a match is found these or other processes may then automatically generate an edge from a node corresponding to the user the user s node to the existing node corresponding to the concept match. Particular embodiments further relate to one or more processes that automatically create a new node and an edge from the new node to the user s node when a match to an existing concept and corresponding node is not found or at least not found with a desired level of certainty. By way of example as will be described below various web pages hosted or accessible in the social network environment such as for example user profile pages enable users to add content declare interests or otherwise express themselves hereinafter also referred to collectively as declarations including by linking to or otherwise referencing additional content such as media content e.g. photos videos music text etc. uniform resource locators URLs an other nodes via their respective profile pages or other concept profile pages. Such declarations may then be viewable by the authoring users as well as other users. In particular embodiments as a user is entering text to make a declaration the typeahead feature attempts to match the string of textual characters being entered in the declaration to strings of characters e.g. names corresponding to existing concepts or users and corresponding concept or user nodes in the social graph. In particular embodiments when a match is found the typeahead feature may automatically populate the form with a node name or other identifier of the existing node and as just described cause an edge to be created between the matching existing node and the user s node. In particular embodiments as a user continues to enter text and the typeahead feature determines that all or a portion of the declaration does not match any existing node at least according to a statically or dynamically determined level of certainty the typeahead feature may cause the social network environment to automatically create a new node based on the declaration entered by the user as well as an edge from the user s node to the new node. Prediction and display of results using a typeahead feature is discussed in further detail in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 763 132 filed on 19 Apr. 2010 titled Dynamically Generating Recommendations Based on Social Graph Information and issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 180 804 on 15 May 2012 which is incorporated herein by reference.

Particular embodiments further relate to a method for automatically generating nodes and edges based on information previously entered by users of a social network environment. In particular embodiments one or more backend server side processes implement and utilize a bootstrapping feature to automatically attempt to match known concepts indexed in a data store each of which may or may not be associated with or correspond to a respective existing node in the social graph to information previously entered by a user in one or more of a variety of forms or formats and stored in the social network environment. In particular embodiments when a match to a known concept is found these or other processes may then automatically generate an edge from a node corresponding to the user for which the previously entered information was matched to an existing node corresponding to the concept match. Particular embodiments further relate to one or more processes that when a match to a known concept is found but where no node currently exists for the known concept automatically create a new node for the known concept and an edge from the new node to the user s node. Particular embodiments further relate to one or more processes that when a match to a known concept or existing node is not found or at least not found with a desired level of certainty automatically create a new node based on the previously entered information and an edge from the new node to the user s node.

Particular embodiments further relate to a method for populating a concept database using data obtained from one or more internal or external sources. In particular embodiments the concept database includes an index of known concepts as well as in some embodiments various attributes metadata or other information associated with the respective concepts. In particular embodiments one or more backend server side processes crawl one or more external data sources e.g. WIKIPEDIA www.wikipedia.org FREEBASE www.freebase.com available from METAWEB or the internet in general to facilitate or aid in generating or populating the concept database. In some embodiments the concept database may also be augmented with information extracted from users of the social network environment described herein.

Various portions of such a social networking platform may be implemented via a hardware architecture or software framework that enables various software components or processes to implement particular embodiments as is described in more detail by way of example and not by way of limitation below. The platform may include one or more hardware or software components one or more of which may be located or embodied in one or more consolidated or distributed computing systems. Additionally as used herein or may imply and as well as or that is or does not necessarily preclude and unless explicitly stated or implicitly implied.

As just described in various example embodiments one or more described web pages or web applications are associated with a social network environment or social networking service. As used herein a user may be an individual human user an entity e.g. an enterprise business or third party application or a group e.g. of individuals or entities that interacts or communicates with or over such a social network environment. As used herein a registered user refers to a user that has officially registered within the social network environment Generally the users and user nodes described herein refer to registered users only although this is not necessarily a requirement in other embodiments that is in other embodiments the users and user nodes described herein may refer to users that have not registered with the social network environment described herein . In particular embodiments a registered user has a corresponding profile page stored or hosted by the social network environment and viewable by all or a selected subset of other users. Generally a user has administrative rights to all or a portion of his or her own respective profile page as well as potentially to other pages created by or for the particular user including for example home pages pages hosting web applications among other possibilities. As used herein an authenticated user refers to a user who has been authenticated by the social network environment as being the user claimed in a corresponding profile page to which the user has administrative rights or alternately a suitable trusted representative of the claimed user.

In such embodiments in which edges have or are assigned associated edge types the edge itself may store or be stored with data that defines a type of connection between the pair of nodes the edge connects such as for example data describing the types of the nodes the edge connects access privileges of an administrator of one of the pair of nodes connected by the edge with respect to the other node the edge connects to e.g. read or write access of an administrator of one node with respect to the other node connected by the edge or data describing how or why the edge was first initialized or created e.g. in response to an explicit user action or declaration or automatically without an explicit user action the strength of the connection as determined by various factors or criteria related to or shared by the nodes or more particularly the users or concepts associated with the respective connected nodes connected by the edge among other suitable or relevant data.

In an alternate embodiment each edge may simply define or represent a connection between nodes regardless of the types of nodes the edge connects that is the edge itself may store or be stored with identifiers of the nodes the edge connects but may not store or be stored with data that describes a type of connection between the pair of nodes the edge connects. Furthermore in any of these or other embodiments data that may indicate the type of connection or relationship between nodes connected by an edge may be stored with the nodes themselves. In particular embodiments the edges as well as attributes e.g. edge type and node identifiers corresponding to the nodes connected by the edge metadata or other information defining characterizing or related to the edges may be stored e.g. as data objects in the social graph database and updated periodically or in response to various actions or factors.

One or more links may couple a server or a client to network . In particular embodiments one or more links may each include one or more wireline wireless or optical links . In particular embodiments one or more links may each include an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a MAN a portion of the Internet a cellular technology based network a satellite communications technology based network or another link or a combination of two or more such links . This disclosure contemplates any suitable links coupling servers and clients to network .

In particular embodiments each server may be a unitary server or a distributed server spanning multiple computers or multiple datacenters. Servers may be of various types such as for example and without limitation web servers news servers mail servers message servers advertising servers file servers application servers exchange servers database servers proxy servers or any other servers suitable for performing functions and or processes described herein or any combination thereof. In particular embodiments each server may include hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by server . For example a web server is generally capable of hosting websites containing web pages or particular elements of web pages. More specifically a web server may host HTML files or other file types or may dynamically create or constitute files upon a request and communicate them to clients in response to HTTP or other requests from clients . A mail server is generally capable of providing electronic mail services to various clients . A database server is generally capable of providing an interface for managing data stored in one or more data stores. In particular embodiments a social networking system may be hosted on a server .

In particular embodiments one or more data storages may be communicatively linked to one or more severs via one or more links . In particular embodiments data storages may be used to store various types of information. In particular embodiments the information stored in data storages may be organized according to specific data structures. In particular embodiments each data storage may be a relational database. Particular embodiments may provide interfaces that enable servers or clients to manage e.g. retrieve modify add or delete the information stored in data storage .

In particular embodiments each client may be an electronic device including hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components and capable of carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by client . For example and without limitation a client may comprise a computer system such as a desktop computer a notebook or laptop a netbook a tablet an e book reader a GPS device a camera a personal digital assistant PDA a handheld electronic device a mobile telephone or another similar processor based electronic device. This disclosure contemplates any suitable clients . A client may enable a network user at client to access network . A client may enable its user to communicate with other users at other clients . In particular embodiments a client device may comprise a personal computing device as described in .

A client may have a software application e.g. a web browser such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER GOOGLE CHROME or MOZILLA FIREFOX and may have one or more add ons plug ins or other extensions such as TOOLBAR or YAHOO TOOLBAR . A user at client may enter a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other address directing the software application to a server and the software application may generate a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP request and communicate the HTTP request to server . Server may accept the HTTP request and communicate to client one or more Hyper Text Markup Language HTML files responsive to the HTTP request. Client may render a web page based on the HTML files from server for presentation to the user. This disclosure contemplates any suitable web page files. As an example and not by way of limitation web pages may render from HTML files Extensible Hyper Text Markup Language XHTML files or Extensible Markup Language XML files according to particular needs. Such pages may also execute scripts such as for example and without limitation those written in JAVASCRIPT JAVA MICROSOFT SILVERLIGHT combinations of markup language and scripts such as AJAX Asynchronous JAVASCRIPT and XML and the like. Herein reference to a web page encompasses one or more corresponding web page files which a browser may use to render the web page and vice versa where appropriate.

More particularly when a user at a client desires to view a particular web page hereinafter also referred to as a target structured document hosted by social networking system or a web application hosted by a server and made available in conjunction with social networking system the user s software application e.g. a client side structured document rendering engine or suitable client application formulates and transmits a request to social networking system . The request generally includes a URL or other document identifier as well as metadata or other information. By way of example the request may include information identifying the user such as a user ID as well as information identifying or characterizing the software application or operating system running on the user s client . The request may also include location information identifying a geographic location of the user s client or a logical network location of the user s client as well as timestamp identifying when the request was transmitted.

In an example implementation when a request for a web page or structured document hosted by social networking system is received by the social networking system one or more page generating processes executing within the social networking system typically generate a base web page in the form of a Hyper Text Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or other web browser supported structured document. The generated structured document is then transmitted in a response which may comprise one or more portions or partial responses to the requesting client via a Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP or other suitable connection for rendering by the software application at the client . The structured document may include one or more resources e.g. JavaScript scripts code segments or resources Cascading Style Sheet CSS code segments or resources image data or resources video data or resources etc. or references to such resources embedded within the transmitted document. By way of example a resource embedded in an HTML document may generally be included or specified within a script element image element or object element among others depending on the type of resource. The element referencing or specifying the resource may include a source attribute e.g. src identifying a location of the resource which may be within a server or data store within social networking system or at one or more external locations to the client requesting the web page. Typically upon receipt of the response the software application or other client document rendering application running at the client then constructs a document object model DOM representation of the received structured document and requests the resource s which may be at one or more other external locations embedded in the document.

In an example implementation when a registered user of social network environment first requests a web page from social networking system in a given user session the response transmitted to the user s client device from social networking system may include a structured document generated by a page generating process for rendering a login page at the client device. The user may then enter his or her user login credentials e.g. user ID and password which are then transmitted from the user s client to social networking system . Upon successful authentication of the user social networking system may then transmit a response to the user s software application at the user s client that includes a structured document generated by page generating process for rendering a user homepage or user profile page at the user s client device. Furthermore in particular embodiments and as will be described below this or a subsequent response may further include one or more executable code segments e.g. JavaScript that when received by the user s client implement a frontend client side typeahead process that executes in conjunction with the user s software application .

In one example embodiment social networking system comprises computing systems that allow users at clients to communicate or otherwise interact with each other and access content such as user profiles as described herein. Social networking system is a network addressable system that in various example embodiments comprises one or more servers as well as one or more data stores which may be implemented in or by one or more of a variety of consolidated or distributed computing systems databases or data servers . The one or more servers are operably connected to network via by way of example a set of routers or networking switches. In an example embodiment the functionality hosted by the one or more servers may include web or HTTP servers FTP servers as well as without limitation web pages and applications implemented using Common Gateway Interface CGI script PHP Hyper text Preprocessor PHP Active Server Pages ASP Hyper Text Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML Java JavaScript Asynchronous JavaScript and XML AJAX and the like.

Servers may host functionality directed to the operations of social networking system . By way of example social networking system may host a website that allows one or more users at one or more clients to view and post information as well as communicate with one another via the website. Hereinafter servers may be referred to as server although as just described server may include numerous servers hosting for example social networking system as well as other content distribution servers data stores or databases. Data store may store content and data relating to and enabling operation of the social networking system as digital data objects including content objects. A data object in a particular implementation is an item of digital information typically stored or embodied in a data file database or record. Content objects may take many forms including text e.g. ASCII SGML HTML images e.g. jpeg tif and gif graphics vector based or bitmap audio video e.g. mpeg or other multimedia and combinations thereof. Content object data may also include executable code objects e.g. games executable within a browser window or frame podcasts etc. Logically data store corresponds to one or more of a variety of separate or integrated databases such as relational databases and object oriented databases that maintain information as an integrated collection of logically related records or files stored on one or more physical systems. Structurally data store may generally include one or more of a large class of data storage and management systems. In particular embodiments data store may be implemented by any suitable physical system s including components such as one or more database servers mass storage media media library systems storage area networks data storage clouds and the like. In one example embodiment data store includes one or more servers databases e.g. MySQL and or data warehouses.

Data store may include data associated with different social networking system users clients or servers as well as in particular embodiments data associated with various concepts. As described above particular embodiments relate to a social networking system that includes a platform enabling an integrated social network environment. In the following example embodiments the social network environment may be described or implemented in terms of a social graph including social graph information. In particular embodiments data store includes a social graph database in which the social graph information for use in implementing the social network environment described herein is stored. In particular embodiments the social graph information stored by social networking system in data store and particularly in a social graph database includes a plurality of nodes and a plurality of edges that define connections between corresponding nodes. In particular embodiments the nodes or edges themselves are data objects that include the identifiers attributes and information including the information for their corresponding profile pages for their corresponding users or concepts as described below some of which is actually rendered on corresponding profile or other pages. The nodes may also include pointers or references to other objects data structures or resources for use in rendering content in conjunction with the rendering of the profile pages corresponding to the respective nodes.

In particular embodiments a personal computing device such as a mobile device may include various types of sensors such as for example and without limitation one or more touch sensors disposed for example on a display of the device the back of the device and or one or more lateral edges of the device for detecting a user touching the surface of the mobile electronic device e.g. using one or more fingers one or more accelerometers for detecting whether the personal computing device is moving and the speed of the movement one or more thermometers for measuring the temperature change near the personal computing device one or more proximity sensors for detecting the proximity of the personal computing device to another object e.g. a hand desk or other object one or more light sensors for measuring the ambient light around the personal computing device one or more imaging sensors e.g. cameras for capturing digital still images and or video of objects near the personal computing device e.g. scenes people bar codes QR codes etc. one or more location sensors e.g. Global Positioning System GPS for determining the location e.g. in terms of latitude and longitude of the mobile electronic device one or more sensors for detecting communication networks within close proximity e.g. near field communication NFC Bluetooth RFID infrared one or more chemical sensors one or more biometric sensors for biometrics based e.g. fingerprint palm vein pattern hand geometry iris retina DNA face voice olfactory sweat authentication of user of personal computing device etc. This disclosure contemplates that a mobile electronic device may include any applicable type of sensor or any applicable combination thereof. Sensors may provide various types of sensor data which may be analyzed to determine the user s intention with respect to the mobile electronic device at a given time.

In particular embodiments a sensors hub may optionally be included in personal computing device . Sensors may be connected to sensors hub which may be a low power consuming processor that controls sensors manages power for sensors processes sensor inputs aggregates sensor data and performs certain sensor functions. In addition in particular embodiments some types of sensors may be connected to a controller . In this case sensors hub may be connected to controller which in turn is connected to sensor . Alternatively in particular embodiments there may be a sensor monitor in place of sensors hub for managing sensors .

In particular embodiments in addition to the front side personal computing device may have one or more sensors for performing biometric identification. Such sensors may be positioned on any surface of personal computing device . In example embodiments as the user s hand touches personal computing device to grab hold of it the touch sensors may capture the user s fingerprints or palm vein pattern. In example embodiments while a user is viewing the screen of personal computing device a camera may capture an image of the user s face to perform facial recognition. In example embodiments while a user is viewing the screen of personal computing device an infrared scanner may scan the user s iris and or retina. In example embodiments while a user is in contact or close proximity with personal computing device chemical and or olfactory sensors may capture relevant data about a user. In particular embodiments upon detecting that there is a change in state with respect to the identity of the user utilizing personal computing device either by itself or in combination with other types of sensor indications personal computing device may determine that it is being shared.

In particular embodiments in addition to the front side the personal computing device may have touch sensors on the left and right sides. Optionally the personal computing device may also have touch sensors on the back top or bottom side. Thus as the user s hand touches personal computing device to grab hold of it the touch sensors may detect the user s fingers or palm touching personal computing device . In particular embodiments upon detecting that there is a change in state with respect to a user touching personal computing device either by itself or in combination with other types of sensor indications personal computing device may determine that it is being shared.

In particular embodiments personal computing device may have an accelerometer in addition to or instead of the touch sensors on the left and right sides. Sensor data provided by the accelerometer may also be used to estimate whether a new user has picked up personal computing device from a resting position e.g. on a table or desk display shelf or from someone s hand or from within someone s bag. When the user picks up personal computing device and brings it in front of the user s face there may be a relatively sudden increase in the movement speed of personal computing device . This change in the device s movement speed may be detected based on the sensor data supplied by the accelerometer. In particular embodiments upon detecting that there is a significant increase in the speed of the device s movement either by itself or in combination with other types of sensor indications personal computing device may determine that it is being shared.

In particular embodiments personal computing device may have a Gyrometer in addition or instead of the touch sensors on the left and right sides. A Gyrometer also known as a gyroscope is a device for measuring the orientation along one or more axis. In particular embodiments a gyrometer may be used to measure the orientation of personal computing device . When personal computing device is stored on a shelf or in the user s bag it may stay mostly in one orientation. However when the user grabs hold of personal computing device and lifts it up and or moves it closer to bring it in front of the user s face there may be a relatively sudden change in the orientation of personal computing device . The orientation of personal computing device may be detected and measured by the gyrometer. If the orientation of personal computing device has changed significantly In particular embodiments upon detecting that there is a significant change in the orientation of personal computing device either by itself or in combination with other types of sensor indications personal computing device may determine that it is being shared.

In particular embodiments personal computing device may have a light sensor. When personal computing device is stored for example in a user s pocket or case it is relatively dark around personal computing device . On the other hand when the user brings personal computing device out of the pocket or case it may be relatively bright around personal computing device especially during day time or in well lit areas. The sensor data supplied by the light sensor may be analyzed to detect when a significant change in the ambient light level around personal computing device occurs. In particular embodiments upon detecting that there is a significant increase in the ambient light level around personal computing device either by itself or in combination with other types of sensor indications personal computing device may determine that it is being shared.

In particular embodiments personal computing device may have a proximity sensor. The sensor data supplied by the proximity sensor may be analyzed to detect when personal computing device is in close proximity to a specific object such as the user s hand. For example mobile device may have an infrared LED light emitting diode i.e. proximity sensor placed on its back side. When the user holds such a mobile device in his hand the palm of the user s hand may cover infrared LED . As a result infrared LED may detect when the user s hand is in close proximity to mobile device . In particular embodiments upon detecting that personal computing device is in close proximity to the user s hand either by itself or in combination with other types of sensor indications personal computing device may determine that it is being shared.

A personal computing device may have any number of sensors of various types and these sensors may supply different types of sensor data. Different combinations of the individual types of sensor data may be used together to detect and estimate a user s current intention with respect to personal computing device e.g. whether the user really means to take personal computing device out of his pocket and use it . Sometimes using multiple types of sensor data in combination may yield a more accurate and thus better estimation of the user s intention with respect to personal computing device at a given time than only using a single type of sensor data. Nevertheless it is possible to estimate the user s intention using a single type of sensor data e.g. touch sensor data .

Of course personal computing device is merely an example. In practice a device may have any number of sides and this disclosure contemplates devices with any number of sides. The touch sensors may be placed on any side of a device.

In particular embodiments personal computing device may have a proximity sensor e.g. an infrared LED placed on its back side. Proximity sensor may be able to supply sensor data for determining its proximity and thus the proximity of personal computing device to another object.

In particular embodiments the user interface of an application may include any number of screens or displays. In particular embodiments each screen or display of the user interface may be implemented as a web page. Thus the device user may interact with the application through a series of screens or displays i.e. a series of web pages . In particular embodiments operating system may be Google s Android mobile technology platform. With Android there is a Java package called android.webkit which provides various tools for browsing the web. Among the android.webkit package there is a Java class called android.webkit.WebView which implements a View for displaying web pages. This class uses the WebKit rendering engine to display web pages and includes methods to navigate forward and backward through a history zoom in zoom out perform text searches and so on. In particular embodiments an application user interface may utilize Android s WebView application programming interface API to display each web page of the user interface in a View implemented by the android.webkit.WebView class. Thus in particular embodiments software may include any number of web views each for displaying one or more web pages that implement the user interface of an application.

During the execution of an application the device user may interact with the application through its user interface. For example the user may provide inputs to the application in various displays e.g. web pages . Outputs of the application may be presented to the user in various displays e.g. web pages as well. In particular embodiments when the user provides an input to the application through a specific display e.g. a specific web page an event e.g. an input event may be generated by for example a web view or application user interfaces . Each input event may be forwarded to application functions or application functions may listen for input events thus generated. When application functions receive an input event the appropriate software module in application functions may be invoked to process the event. In addition specific functionalities provided by operating system and or hardware e.g. as described in B may also be invoked. For example if the event is generated as a result of the user pushing a button to take a photo with personal computing device a corresponding image processing module may be invoked to convert the raw image data into an image file e.g. JPG or GIF and store the image file in the storage of personal computing device . As another example if the event is generated as a result of the user selecting an icon to compose an instant message the corresponding short message service SMS module may be invoked to enable the user to compose and send the message.

In particular embodiments when an output of the application is ready to be presented to the user an event e.g. an output event may be generated by for example a software module in application functions or operating system . Each output event may be forwarded to application user interfaces or application user interfaces may listen for output events thus generated. When application user interfaces receive an output event it may construct a web view to display a web page representing or containing the output. For example in response to the user selecting an icon to compose an instant message an output may be constructed that includes a text field that allows the user to input the message. This output may be presented to the user as a web page and displayed to the user in a web view so that the user may type into the text field the message to be sent.

The user interface of an application may be implemented using a suitable programming language e.g. HTML JavaScript or Java . More specifically in particular embodiments each web page that implements a screen or display of the user interface may be implemented using a suitable programming language. In particular embodiments when a web view is constructed to display a web page e.g. by application user interfaces in response to an output event the code implementing the web page is loaded into web view .

In particular embodiments a user of personal computing device may enter an input using input device . In particular embodiments this input may comprise an input term which may be displayed on screen . In particular embodiments input term may comprise a portion of the intended final input term while in other embodiments input term may comprise the entire final input term.

In particular embodiments personal computing device may be client as depicted in and may communicate with social networking system via network .

In particular embodiments as a user types or otherwise enters input term into input field a frontend typeahead process works in conjunction with one or more backend server side typeahead processes executing at or within the social networking system e.g. within servers to interactively and virtually instantaneously as appearing to the user attempt to auto populate input field with a term which may comprise any acceptable string of characters e.g. alphanumeric space punctuation etc. corresponding to names of existing nodes or terms associated with existing nodes determined to be the most relevant or best match to the characters of text entered by the user as the user enters the characters of text. Utilizing the social graph information in social networking system including information associated with nodes as well as edges the frontend and backend typeahead processes in conjunction with the information from social networking system are able to predict a user s intended declaration with a high degree of precision. As one of skill in the art would be aware input field may be used in any context such as for example and without limitation a posting on a bulletin board a message to one or more friends a status update a search field or any interface for creating any type of text based content e.g. event page calendar item profile page .

More particularly as the user enters input term the frontend typeahead process reads the string of entered textual characters and in particular embodiments as each keystroke is made the frontend typeahead process transmits the entered character string as a request or call at to the backend typeahead process executing within social networking system . In particular embodiments the frontend and backend typeahead processes may communicate via AJAX Asynchronous JavaScript and XML or other suitable techniques and particularly asynchronous techniques. In one particular embodiment the request is or comprises an XMLHTTPRequest enabling quick and dynamic sending and fetching of results. In particular embodiments the frontend typeahead process also transmits before after or with the request a section identifier section ID that identifies the particular section of the particular page in which the user is making the declaration. In some embodiments a user ID parameter may also be sent but this may be unnecessary in some embodiments as the user is already known based on he or she logging into social networking system .

In particular embodiments when the backend typeahead process receives input term as it is being entered by the user the backend process performs or causes to be performed e.g. in conjunction with one or more other search processes executing at social networking system a string search to identify existing nodes having respective names or other identifiers matching the input term and in particular embodiments matching a particular category of nodes in the social graph database as determined at least in part by the particular section identifier. In various example embodiments the granularity of the categories may vary. In one embodiment the backend typeahead process performs string matching that is the backend typeahead process attempts to match the latest string of characters received from the frontend typeahead process to an index of strings each corresponding to a name of a node in the social graph database. In particular embodiments the index of strings is updated periodically or as nodes are added to the social graph database or other index generated from the social graph database. The backend typeahead process may use one or more of a variety of factors when attempting to match the string of entered text and as such may examine one or more of a variety of different aspects or attributes of existing nodes in the social graph database. In particular embodiments backend typeahead process searches or queries an index of nodes generated from the social graph database in which the nodes are indexed and searchable or queryable by category. The backend typeahead process may also use information about the user entering the text including information entered in the user s profile page information about the users friends information about other nodes the user is connected with etc. in order to best match an input term to a node. The backend typeahead process may also attempt to correct spellings or match to synonyms of the user entered characters or extrapolations of entered characters.

In particular embodiments the backend typeahead process may use one or more matching algorithms to attempt to identify matching nodes. In particular embodiments when a match or matches are found the backend typeahead process may transmit a response which may utilize AJAX or other suitable techniques to the user s client device that may include for example the names name strings of the matching nodes as well as potentially other metadata associated with the matching nodes. By way of example illustrates the result of the user entering the input term San into input field . In the example illustrated in the frontend typeahead process displays a drop down menu that displays names of matching nodes A B and C which the user can then click on or otherwise select. By way of example upon clicking Sandwich Express the frontend typeahead process auto populates or causes the software application to auto populate the input field with the declaration Sandwich Express. In an alternate embodiment the frontend typeahead process may simply auto populate the form with the name or other identifier of the top ranked match rather than display a drop down menu. In such an embodiment the user may confirm the auto populated declaration simply by keying enter on his or her input device or by clicking on the auto populated declaration.

In particular embodiments information associated with each matching node is presented as a predictive typeahead result that may include an image associated with the node as well as a reference to a web resource e.g. a hyperlink to profile page for the node or to a third party website associated with the node. In particular embodiments once a particular matching node is selected from drop down menu the reference to its corresponding web resource may also be included in input field together with the text for the selected matching node. For example if the Sandwich Express node is selected from drop down menu input field may be populated with the text Sandwich Express which may be hyperlinked to a website for Sandwich Express. In particular embodiments the predictive typeahead result may also include a description for the image. The description may comprise functionality e.g. using Javascript that displays the description for the image e.g. by responding to a mouse placed over the image showing a popup window or showing text within the image.

In particular embodiments the matching nodes A C may be based on social graph information stored in the social graph database which may be used by the backend typeahead process to better match a string of entered characters of an input term to existing nodes that may be candidates for matching nodes. By way of example consider an example in which a user types sandwich into a input field. In such an example the backend typeahead process may identify numerous nodes having corresponding names that at least include the name sandwich or a derivation thereof e.g. sandwiches . For example the backend typeahead process may identify a user node associated with a deli called Sandwich Express. The backend typeahead process may also identify a user node associated with a deli called Sandwich Makers and a concept node associated with Ham Sandwiches In such cases all of these three nodes may be matched by the backend typeahead process and hence all three node names may be transmitted in some embodiments while in other embodiments the backend typeahead process may only transmit one matching node name that is determined to be the most relevant based for example and as described above on using parameters extracted from the user s profile to determine a category in which the most relevant matching node would be indexed in.

In particular embodiments the backend typeahead process may determine that the string of entered characters of the input term could correspond to an action or activity represented as an edge between one or more pairs of nodes in the social graph. The concept of actions or activities being represented by edges in a social graph is discussed in further detail with respect to . For example if the user were to enter the phrase played into an input field the backend typeahead process may identify one or more nodes that could serve as the object of the action played such as online social networking games recently played by the user. In this case the backend typeahead process may transmit one or more matches e.g. played Cookie Hamster played Whack a Troll and played Pina Pony. In another example if the user were to enter the phrase ate at into an input field the backend typeahead process may identify one or more nodes that could serve as the object of the action ate at such as restaurants where the user recently checked in or restaurants for which the user has submitted a review e.g. ate at P.F. Chang s ate at Mack s BBQ and ate at Chipotle. 

In particular embodiments the backend typeahead process may identify matches according to the context in which the input is being entered. For example if the user is updating their status and has indicated that their current location is Penn Station in New York City the backend typeahead process may determine matches for the string of entered characters of the input term with respect to this extra information. For example if the user were to enter the phrase noshing at into an input field the backend typeahead process may identify one or more nodes that could serve as the object of this action such as the list of eating establishments located at Penn Station. In this case the backend typeahead process may transmit one or more matches e.g. noshing at Krispy Kreme noshing at Nathan s Famous and noshing at Tracks. In another example if the user is checking in to Philz Coffee and has entered the phrase drinking the backend typeahead process may identify one or more nodes that could serve as the object of this action such as drinking a Mint Mojito drinking a Tantalizing Turkish espresso and drinking a 4 Great Horses cappuccino. In particular embodiments the backend typeahead process determines matches according to the user s personal historical activity in the particular context in which the input is being entered for example the list of coffee drinks at Philz Coffee may be ranked according to the frequency with which the user has previously indicated that they were consuming a particular coffee drink.

Additionally in some embodiments other factors may also be used to determine the strength or relevancy of the matching nodes including by way of example the number of the user s friends having respective user nodes connected with a matching node the number of total users having respective user nodes connected with a matching hub node the number of other nodes connected with the matching node information obtained by analyzing other nodes connected to both the user s node and a matching node or other nodes connected to nodes corresponding to friends of the user as well as to a matching node. Moreover as described below information characterizing the strength of the connections associated with the edges connecting any of these nodes may also be used to weight their relevancy in determining the most relevant matching node or nodes.

In particular embodiments there are at least one or two determinations that are made by the backend typeahead process before the frontend typeahead process auto populates an input field with names corresponding to matched nodes. First considering the above example in the case that a plurality of matches to existing nodes are identified the backend typeahead process may then determine a confidence score for each of the matches that indicates an absolute or relative quality of each of the names of the matching nodes the quality of the matching nodes themselves or otherwise a level of confidence that the backend process has that the match is correct the intended concept the user was entering or trying to enter . This determination at may also result or involve a ranking of the matches which may be reflected in the order of the matches displayed in the drop down menu .

One or more of numerous factors may be used to determine a confidence score quality or ranking of a matching node. By way of example such factors may again include as just described the number of the user s friends having respective user nodes connected with a matching node the number of total users having respective user nodes connected with a matching node the number of other nodes connected with the matching hub node information obtained by analyzing other nodes connected to both the user s node and a matching node or other nodes connected to nodes corresponding to friends of the user as well as to a matching node.

In particular embodiments the backend typeahead process may then make a second determination before the frontend typeahead process auto populates an input field with names corresponding to ranked matched nodes. By way of example based on the confidence scores one or both of the frontend and backend typeahead processes may determine whether there is a determined level of certainty or confidence a confidence score for each match before the match is displayed to the user in the form of a drop down menu for selection or auto populated in the input field. That is in particular embodiments even though one or more matches have been identified from the existing nodes in the social graph database their respective certainties as demonstrated by their determined confidence scores may be below a first predetermined threshold and hence none of the matches may be displayed to the user and be auto populated by the frontend typeahead process. That is rather than display and provide the user with the match or matches having confidence scores below the threshold the frontend typeahead process may allow the user to finish typing the input term himself or herself and then transmit the request. The backend process may determine the best match corresponding to the user s declaration and proceed with calling the edge generating API to which it passes information about the user s node and information about the existing node to the best matching node resulting in the creation of an edge between the user s node and the best matching node in the social graph database.

In alternate embodiments determining a confidence score of each match may be performed as a part of the searching step or determination step. In such embodiments the determination of whether a match or matches have been found may be based on comparing respective confidence scores determined for the prospective matches with a second predetermined threshold below the first predetermined threshold described above. That is the second predetermined threshold may be used when determining if a match is found while the first predetermined threshold may be used when determining if the match should be auto populated for display to the user.

In particular embodiments step may comprise retrieving information associated with one or more nodes of a social graph wherein the information is stored on one or more data stores. In particular embodiments these data stores may be data stores depicted in . In particular embodiments a node may comprise a user node or a concept node. In particular embodiments each node may be connected by edges to other nodes of a social graph.

In particular embodiments step may comprise detecting that a first user is entering an input term. In particular embodiments the first user may enter an input term on input device of personal computing device as depicted in . In particular embodiments the input term entered by the first user may appear on screen as input term . In particular embodiments personal computing device may be client as depicted in and client may transmit the input term to social networking system via network . In particular embodiments the first user may be associated with a first user node of a social graph.

In particular embodiments step may comprise providing predictive typeahead results as the first user enters the input term each predictive typeahead result including at least one image. In particular embodiments predictive typeahead results may be generated by social networking system as depicted in and transmitted to client via network . In particular embodiments client may be personal computing device as depicted in and the predictive typeahead results may be displayed as predictive typeahead results A C. In particular embodiments the predictive typeahead results may be based on the input term. In particular embodiments each predictive typeahead result may correspond to at least one node of the social graph.

In particular embodiments step may comprise retrieving information associated with one or more nodes of a social graph wherein the information is stored on one or more data stores. In particular embodiments these data stores may be data stores depicted in . In particular embodiments a node may comprise a user node or a concept node. In particular embodiments each node may be connected by edges to other nodes of a social graph.

In particular embodiments step may comprise detecting that a first user is entering an input term. In particular embodiments the first user may enter input criteria on input device of personal computing device as depicted in . In particular embodiments the input term entered by the first user may appear on screen as input term . In particular embodiments personal computing device may be client as depicted in and client may transmit the input criteria to social networking system via network . In particular embodiments the first user may be associated with a first user node of a social graph.

In particular embodiments step may comprise matching a string of characters in the input term to strings of characters associated with nodes in the social graph. In particular embodiments the matching may occur every time the computing system detects that the first user has entered another character comprising an input term. In particular embodiments the matching may occur after the computing system detects that the user has entered a pre determined number of characters comprising an input term. In particular embodiments the matching may occur after the computing system detects that the user has entered certain types of characters comprising an input term.

In particular embodiments step may comprise providing predictive typeahead results as the first user enters the input term each predictive typeahead result including at least one image. In particular embodiments predictive typeahead results may be generated by social networking system as depicted in and transmitted to client via network . In particular embodiments client may be personal computing device as depicted in and the predictive typeahead results may be displayed as predictive typeahead results A C. In particular embodiments the predictive typeahead results may be based on the input term. In particular embodiments each predictive typeahead result may correspond to at least one node of the social graph.

In particular embodiments step may comprise providing a description for the image. In particular embodiments the description may be stored on data stores as depicted in and then transmitted via network to client . In particular embodiments the description may be stored on servers and then transmitted via network to client .

In particular embodiments a user node may correspond to a user of social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation a user may be an individual human user an entity e.g. an enterprise business or third party application or a group e.g. of individuals or entities that interacts or communicates with or over social networking system . In particular embodiments when a user registers for an account with social networking system social networking system may create a user node corresponding to the user and store the user node in one or more data stores. Users and user nodes described herein may where appropriate refer to registered users and user nodes associated with registered users. In addition or as an alternative users and user nodes described herein may where appropriate refer to users that have not registered with social networking system . In particular embodiments a user node may be associated with information provided by a user or information gathered by various systems including social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation a user may provide his or her name profile picture contact information birth date sex marital status family status employment education background preferences interests or other demographic information. In particular embodiments a user node may be associated with one or more data objects corresponding to information associated with a user. In particular embodiments a user node may correspond to one or more webpages or one or more user profile pages which may be webpages .

In particular embodiments a concept node may correspond to a concept. As an example and not by way of limitation a concept may correspond to a place such as for example a movie theater restaurant landmark or city a website such as for example a website associated with social network system or a third party website associated with a web application server an entity such as for example a person business group sports team or celebrity a resource such as for example an audio file video file digital photo text file structured document or application which may be located within social networking system or on an external server such as a web application server real or intellectual property such as for example a sculpture painting movie game song idea photograph or written work a game an activity an idea or theory another suitable concept or two or more such concepts. A concept node may be associated with information of a concept provided by a user or information gathered by various systems including social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation information of a concept may include a name or a title one or more images e.g. an image of the cover page of a book a location e.g. an address or a geographical location a website which may be associated with a URL contact information e.g. a phone number or an email address other suitable concept information or any suitable combination of such information. In particular embodiments a concept node may be associated with one or more data objects corresponding to information associated with concept node . In particular embodiments a concept node may correspond to a webpage.

In particular embodiments a node in social graph may represent or be represented by a webpage which may be referred to as a profile page . Profile pages may be hosted by or accessible to social networking system . Profile pages may also be hosted on third party websites associated with a third party server . As an example and not by way of limitation a profile page corresponding to a particular external webpage may be the particular external webpage and the profile page may correspond to a particular concept node . Profile pages may be viewable by all or a selected subset of other users. As an example and not by way of limitation a user node may have a corresponding user profile page in which the corresponding user may add content make declarations or otherwise express himself or herself. As another example and not by way of limitation a concept node may have a corresponding concept profile page in which one or more users may add content make declarations or express themselves particularly in relation to the concept corresponding to concept node .

In particular embodiments a concept node may represent a third party webpage or resource hosted by a third party system . The third party webpage or resource may include among other elements content a selectable or other icon or other inter actable object which may be implemented for example in JavaScript AJAX or PHP codes representing an action or activity. As an example and not by way of limitation a third party webpage may include a selectable icon such as like check in eat recommend or another suitable action or activity. A user viewing the third party webpage may perform an action by selecting one of the icons e.g. eat causing a client system to transmit to social networking system a message indicating the user s action. In response to the message social networking system may create an edge e.g. an eat edge between a user node corresponding to the user and a concept node corresponding to the third party webpage or resource and store edge in one or more data stores.

In particular embodiments a pair of nodes in social graph may be connected to each other by one or more edges . An edge connecting a pair of nodes may represent a relationship between the pair of nodes. In particular embodiments an edge may include or represent one or more data objects or attributes corresponding to the relationship between a pair of nodes. As an example and not by way of limitation a first user may indicate that a second user is a friend of the first user. In response to this indication social networking system may transmit a friend request to the second user. If the second user confirms the friend request social networking system may create an edge connecting the first user s user node to the second user s user node in social graph and store edge as social graph information in one or more of data stores . In the example of social graph includes an edge indicating a friend relation between user nodes of user A and user B and an edge indicating a friend relation between user nodes of user C and user B. Although this disclosure describes or illustrates particular edges with particular attributes connecting particular user nodes this disclosure contemplates any suitable edges with any suitable attributes connecting user nodes . As an example and not by way of limitation an edge may represent a friendship family relationship business or employment relationship fan relationship follower relationship visitor relationship subscriber relationship superior subordinate relationship reciprocal relationship non reciprocal relationship another suitable type of relationship or two or more such relationships. Moreover although this disclosure generally describes nodes as being connected this disclosure also describes users or concepts as being connected. Herein references to users or concepts being connected may where appropriate refer to the nodes corresponding to those users or concepts being connected in social graph by one or more edges .

In particular embodiments an edge between a user node and a concept node may represent a particular action or activity performed by a user associated with user node toward a concept associated with a concept node . As an example and not by way of limitation as illustrated in a user may like attended played listened cooked worked at or watched a concept each of which may correspond to a edge type or subtype. A concept profile page corresponding to a concept node may include for example a selectable check in icon such as for example a clickable check in icon or a selectable add to favorites icon. Similarly after a user clicks these icons social networking system may create a favorite edge or a check in edge in response to a user s action corresponding to a respective action. As another example and not by way of limitation a user user C may listen to a particular song Imagine using a particular application SPOTIFY which is an online music application . In this case social networking system may create a listened edge and a used edge as illustrated in between user nodes corresponding to the user and concept nodes corresponding to the song and application to indicate that the user listened to the song and used the application. Moreover social networking system may create a played edge as illustrated in between concept nodes corresponding to the song and the application to indicate that the particular song was played by the particular application. In this case played edge corresponds to an action performed by an external application SPOTIFY on an external audio file the song Imagine . Although this disclosure describes particular edges with particular attributes connecting user nodes and concept nodes this disclosure contemplates any suitable edges with any suitable attributes connecting user nodes and concept nodes . Moreover although this disclosure describes edges between a user node and a concept node representing a single relationship this disclosure contemplates edges between a user node and a concept node representing one or more relationships. As an example and not by way of limitation an edge may represent both that a user likes and has used at a particular concept. Alternatively another edge may represent each type of relationship or multiples of a single relationship between a user node and a concept node as illustrated in between user node for user E and concept node for SPOTIFY .

In particular embodiments social networking system may create an edge between a user node and a concept node in social graph . As an example and not by way of limitation a user viewing a concept profile page such as for example by using a web browser or a special purpose application hosted by the user s client system may indicate that he or she likes the concept represented by the concept node by clicking or selecting a Like icon which may cause the user s client system to transmit to social networking system a message indicating the user s liking of the concept associated with the concept profile page. In response to the message social networking system may create an edge between user node associated with the user and concept node as illustrated by like edge between the user and concept node . In particular embodiments social networking system may store an edge in one or more data stores. In particular embodiments an edge may be automatically formed by social networking system in response to a particular user action. As an example and not by way of limitation if a first user uploads a picture watches a movie or listens to a song an edge may be formed between user node corresponding to the first user and concept nodes corresponding to those concepts. Although this disclosure describes forming particular edges in particular manners this disclosure contemplates forming any suitable edges in any suitable manner.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . This disclosure contemplates computer system taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server a tablet computer system or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple datacenters or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. Storage may include removable or non removable i.e. fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touchscreen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a Wi Fi network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more non transitory tangible computer readable storage media possessing structure. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a SECURE DIGITAL card a SECURE DIGITAL drive or another suitable computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes any medium that is not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes transitory forms of signal transmission such as a propagating electrical or electromagnetic signal per se to the extent that they are not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101. A computer readable non transitory storage medium may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

This disclosure contemplates one or more computer readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor such as for example one or more internal registers or caches one or more portions of memory one or more portions of storage or a combination of these where appropriate. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments one or more computer readable storage media embody software. Herein reference to software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate. In particular embodiments software includes one or more application programming interfaces APIs . This disclosure contemplates any suitable software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages. In particular embodiments software is expressed as source code or object code.

Herein or is inclusive and not exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A or B means A B or both unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover and is both joint and several unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A and B means A and B jointly or severally unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.

This disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Similarly where appropriate the appended claims encompass all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Moreover reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to arranged to capable of configured to enabled to operable to or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus system component whether or not it or that particular function is activated turned on or unlocked as long as that apparatus system or component is so adapted arranged capable configured enabled operable or operative.

The foregoing description of the embodiments of the invention has been presented for the purpose of illustration it is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Persons skilled in the relevant art can appreciate that many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure. For example although the foregoing embodiments have been described in the context of a social network system it will apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the invention may be used with any electronic social network service and even if it is not provided through a website. Any computer based system that provides social networking functionality can be used in accordance with the present invention even if it relies for example on e mail instant messaging or other form of peer to peer communications and any other technique for communicating between users. The invention is thus not limited to any particular type of communication system network protocol format or application.

Some portions of this description describe the embodiments of the invention in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally computationally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits microcode or the like. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules without loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be embodied in software firmware hardware or any combinations thereof.

Any of the steps operations or processes described herein may be performed or implemented with one or more hardware or software modules alone or in combination with other devices. In one embodiment a software module is implemented with a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium containing computer program code which can be executed by a computer processor for performing any or all of the steps operations or processes described.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes and or it may comprise a general purpose computing device selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a tangible computer readable storage medium or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions and coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore any computing systems referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.

While the foregoing processes and mechanisms can be implemented by a wide variety of physical systems and in a wide variety of network and computing environments the server or computing systems described below provide example computing system architectures for didactic rather than limiting purposes.

The present invention has been explained with reference to specific embodiments. For example while embodiments of the present invention have been described as operating in connection with a social network system the present invention can be used in connection with any communications facility that allows for communication of messages between users such as an email hosting site. Other embodiments will be evident to those of ordinary skill in the art. It is therefore not intended that the present invention be limited except as indicated by the appended claims.

Finally the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments of the invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the following claims.

