---

title: Technologies for scalable security architecture of virtualized networks
abstract: Technologies for performing security monitoring services of a network functions virtualization (NFV) security architecture that includes an NVF security services controller and one or more NFV security services agents. The NFV security services controller is configured to transmit a security monitoring policy to the NFV security services agents and enforce the security monitoring policy at the NFV security services agents. The NFV security services agents are configured to monitor telemetry data and package at least a portion of the telemetry for transmission to an NFV security monitoring analytics system of the NFV security architecture for security threat analysis. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09560078&OS=09560078&RS=09560078
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 09560078
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150511
---
The present application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 62 112 151 entitled SCALABLE SECURITY ARCHITECTURE AND TECHNOLOGIES FOR VIRTUALIZED NETWORKS IN SERVICE PROVIDER DEPLOYMENTS which was filed on Feb. 4 2015.

Network operators and service providers typically rely on various network virtualization technologies to manage complex large scale computing environments such as high performance computing HPC and cloud computing environments. For example network operators and service provider networks may rely on network function virtualization NFV deployments to deploy network services e.g. firewall services network address translation NAT services load balancing services deep packet inspection DPI services transmission control protocol TCP optimization services etc. . Such NFV deployments typically use an NFV infrastructure to orchestrate various virtual machines VMs to perform virtualized network services commonly referred to as virtualized network functions VNFs on network traffic and to manage the network traffic across the various VMs.

Unlike traditional non virtualized deployments virtualized deployments decouple network functions from underlying hardware which results in network functions and services that are highly dynamic and generally capable of being executed on off the shelf servers with general purpose processors. As such the VNFs can be scaled in out as necessary based on particular functions or network services to be performed on the network traffic. However traditional means of accessing exposed interfaces e.g. access interfaces via probes for monitoring the processing of the network traffic between the functional components of the traditional non virtualized deployments are not as distinct for access in VNF deployments. For example the Industry Specification Group for NFV of the European Telecommunications Standards Institute ETSI has published a number of virtualized models wherein such access monitoring interfaces may be obscured. Further the number of different access interfaces available in the various deployments e.g. within a VNF between VNFs etc. may make it difficult to probe for desired information about the VNFs. For example some deployments may implement vendor proprietary non standardized interfaces in order to optimize processing power and reduce latency attributable to signaling which may limit access availability.

While the concepts of the present disclosure are susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments thereof have been shown by way of example in the drawings and will be described herein in detail. It should be understood however that there is no intent to limit the concepts of the present disclosure to the particular forms disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives consistent with the present disclosure and the appended claims.

References in the specification to one embodiment an embodiment an illustrative embodiment etc. indicate that the embodiment described may include a particular feature structure or characteristic but every embodiment may or may not necessarily include that particular feature structure or characteristic. Moreover such phrases are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment. Further when a particular feature structure or characteristic is described in connection with an embodiment it is submitted that it is within the knowledge of one skilled in the art to effect such feature structure or characteristic in connection with other embodiments whether or not explicitly described. Additionally it should be appreciated that items included in a list in the form of at least one of A B and C can mean A B C A and B A and C B and C or A B and C . Similarly items listed in the form of at least one of A B or C can mean A B C A and B A and C B and C or A B and C .

The disclosed embodiments may be implemented in some cases in hardware firmware software or any combination thereof. The disclosed embodiments may also be implemented as instructions carried by or stored on one or more transitory or non transitory machine readable e.g. computer readable storage media which may be read and executed by one or more processors. A machine readable storage medium may be embodied as any storage device mechanism or other physical structure for storing or transmitting information in a form readable by a machine e.g. a volatile or non volatile memory a media disc or other media device .

In the drawings some structural or method features may be shown in specific arrangements and or orderings. However it should be appreciated that such specific arrangements and or orderings may not be required. Rather in some embodiments such features may be arranged in a different manner and or order than shown in the illustrative figures. Additionally the inclusion of a structural or method feature in a particular figure is not meant to imply that such feature is required in all embodiments and in some embodiments may not be included or may be combined with other features.

Referring now to in an illustrative embodiment a system for monitoring the security of network communications includes a network functions virtualization NFV security architecture to process network communications between an endpoint device and another endpoint device . The NFV security architecture includes a number of network processing components including an NFV orchestrator a virtual infrastructure manager VIM and an NFV infrastructure . It should be appreciated that in some embodiments the NFV security architecture may include additional and or alternative network processing components physical and or virtual to perform processing functions e.g. analysis network functions etc. on the network traffic data e.g. network traffic payloads network packet headers etc. .

Additionally the NFV security architecture includes a number of security monitoring components including an NFV security services controller . In use the NFV security services controller manages the various security monitoring components across the NFV security architecture which perform active and or passive monitoring of telemetry data. To do so the NFV security services controller instantiates a number of NFV security services agents see e.g. the NVF security services agent of to monitor based on a security policy managed by the NFV security services controller see e.g. the hypervisor of . The NFV security services agents are additionally configured to collect package and securely transmit the telemetry data for analysis.

The telemetry data collected by each of the NFV security services agents may be embodied as or otherwise include any type of data on which a security analysis may be performed. For example the illustrative telemetry data includes component level configuration operation and policy data respective of the component on which the NFV security services agent resides and network traffic data processed relative to that component. As discussed in more detail below the NFV security services agents are configured to package the information and securely transfer the packaged information to an NFV security monitoring analytics system see e.g. NFV security monitoring analytics system of . In use the NFV security monitoring analytics system determines whether any threats and or anomalies are present in the telemetry data. The NFV security monitoring analytics system additionally provides the NFV security services controller with a remediation security policy to address any detected threats and or anomalies. In response the NFV security services controller updates the security policy for the NFV security services agents based on the remediation security policy and enforces the updated security policy across the NFV security services agents.

As will be described in further detail below the NFV infrastructure includes one or more computing nodes capable of managing e.g. creating moving destroying etc. a number of virtual machines VMs that are configured to operate as virtualized network function VNF instances. Each of the VNF instances or VNFs typically relies on one or more VMs which may be running different software and or processes to perform network services on network traffic e.g. firewall services network address translation NAT services load balancing services deep packet inspection DPI services transmission control protocol TCP optimization services intrusion detection services etc. . Further to provide certain network services multiple VNFs may be created as a service function chain or a VNF forwarding graph i.e. a series of VNFs performed in an ordered sequence to implement the desired network service .

The network and security monitoring components of the NFV security architecture can be deployed in various virtualization network architectures such as a virtual Evolved Packet Core vEPC infrastructure a virtualized Customer Premise Equipment vCPE infrastructure or any other type of operator visualized infrastructures. It should be appreciated that depending on the network architecture in which the NFV security architecture is deployed the NFV security architecture may include one or more NFV security services controllers one or more NFV orchestrators one or more VIMs and or one or more NFV infrastructures .

The NFV security services controller may be embodied as or otherwise include any type of hardware software and or firmware capable of performing the functions described herein such as managing the security monitoring components of the NFV security architecture . As will be described in further detail below the NFV security services controller is configured to function as a security monitoring orchestrator. To do so the NFV security services controller is configured to transmit a security monitoring policy that includes various monitoring rules which may include security monitoring policies secure communication path policies configuration parameters and function descriptors to indicate to the security monitoring components throughout the NFV security architecture e.g. the NFV security services agents of which telemetry data to monitor and how to configure the security monitoring components. The NFV security services controller is additionally configured to enforce the security monitoring policies transmitted throughout the NFV security architecture . The various security functions may include but are not limited to securing service function chaining SFC provisioning enforcing SFC security configuration and monitoring providing confidentiality protected tokens managing protected policy transmission and providing inter VNF SFC path protection.

To retrieve and or update the security monitoring policies the NFV security services controller may be configured to interface with one or more external security systems e.g. an Intel Security Controller security databases see the NFV security database of and or security policy engines. To communicate with the external security systems the NFV security services controller may deliver an application programming interface API and or the security policy to the external security services orchestration systems. In some embodiments the NFV security services controller may act as a trusted third party to authenticate messages across the various network and security monitoring components of the NFV security architecture . It should be appreciated that in some embodiments the NFV security services controller may be co located with the NFV orchestrator such as in an NFV management and orchestration MANO architectural framework. It should be further appreciated that in some embodiments the NFV security services controller may have a higher security privilege than the other network and security monitoring components of the NFV security architecture to ensure the integrity and security of the NFV security services controller .

The NFV orchestrator may be embodied as any type of circuitry and or hardware software and or firmware components capable of performing the functions described herein such as managing the lifecycle of the VNFs e.g. instantiation scale out in performance measurements event correlation termination etc. via a VNF manager see managing global resources validating and authorizing resource requests of the NFV infrastructure on boarding of new VNFs and or managing various policies and packages for the VNFs. For example the NFV orchestrator may be configured to receive resource requests from an operator that impacts a particular VNF. In use the NFV orchestrator manages any applicable processing storage and or network configuration adjustments based on the operator requests to bring the VNF into operation or into compliance with the resource requests. Once in operation the NFV orchestrator may monitor the VNF for capacity and utilization which may be adjusted by the NFV orchestrator as necessary.

The VIM may be embodied as or otherwise include any type of hardware software and or firmware capable of performing the functions described herein such as controlling and managing the NFV infrastructure compute storage and network resources e.g. physical and virtual within one operator s infrastructure sub domain as well as collection and forwarding of performance measurements and events. It should be appreciated that in some embodiments the NFV orchestrator may be co located with the VIM such as in the NFV MANO architectural framework.

The NFV infrastructure may be embodied as or otherwise include any type of virtual and or physical processing and storage resources such as one or more servers or other computing nodes as well as virtualization software. For example the illustrative NFV infrastructure includes one or more computing nodes . The illustrative computing nodes include a first computing node which is designated as computing node and a second computing node which is designated as computing node N i.e. the Nth computing node of the computing nodes wherein N is a positive integer and designates one or more additional computing nodes .

The computing nodes may be embodied as any type of computation or computer device capable of performing the functions described herein including without limitation a server e.g. stand alone rack mounted blade etc. a network appliance e.g. physical or virtual a high performance computing device a web appliance a distributed computing system a computer a processor based system a multiprocessor system a smartphone a tablet computer a laptop computer a notebook computer and or a mobile computing device. As shown in in an embodiment each of the computing nodes illustratively includes a processor an input output I O subsystem a memory a data storage device a secure clock and communication circuitry . Of course the computing node may include other or additional components such as those commonly found in a server e.g. various input output devices in other embodiments. Additionally in some embodiments one or more of the illustrative components may be incorporated in or otherwise form a portion of another component. For example the memory or portions thereof may be incorporated in the processor in some embodiments.

The processor may be embodied as any type of processor capable of performing the functions described herein. For example the processor may be embodied as a single or multi core processor s digital signal processor microcontroller or other processor or processing controlling circuit. The illustrative processor includes one or more trusted execution environment TEE supports or secure enclave supports which may be utilized by the computing node in establishing a trusted execution environment. It should be appreciated that in some embodiments the TEE supports provide hardware reinforced security for the trusted execution environment in which executing code may be measured verified or otherwise determined to be authentic. For example the TEE supports may be embodied as Intel Software Guard Extensions SGX technology. Although the TEE supports are illustratively shown in the processor it should be appreciated that in some embodiments one or more of the other components of the computing node may include the TEE supports . Further in some embodiments processor of the computing node may include a security engine e.g. security engine discussed below a manageability engine or a security co processor configured to utilize the TEE supports to establish a trusted execution environment.

The memory may be embodied as any type of volatile or non volatile memory or data storage capable of performing the functions described herein. In operation the memory may store various data and software used during operation of the computing node such as operating systems applications programs libraries and drivers. The memory is communicatively coupled to the processor via the I O subsystem which may be embodied as circuitry and or components to facilitate input output operations with the processor the memory and other components of the computing node . For example the I O subsystem may be embodied as or otherwise include memory controller hubs input output control hubs firmware devices communication links i.e. point to point links bus links wires cables light guides printed circuit board traces etc. and or other components and subsystems to facilitate the input output operations.

The illustrative memory includes a secure memory . In some embodiments the secure memory may be embodied as a secure partition of the memory whereas in other embodiments the secure memory may be embodied or included on a separate hardware component of the computing node . As described herein the secure memory may store various data provisioned to the computing node . For example the secure memory may store a secure key e.g. an attestation key a private direct anonymous attestation DAA key an Enhanced Privacy Identification EPID key or any other type of secure cryptographic key of the computing node that may be provisioned by a manufacturer of the chipset and or of a trusted execution environment. The secure memory may also store a password PIN or other unique identifier of the computing node provisioned therein for example by an original equipment manufacturer OEM of the computing node . Of course it should be appreciated that the secure memory may store various other data depending on the particular embodiment e.g. group names device identifiers whitelists expected PIN values etc. . In some embodiments the provisioned data may be stored in read only memory of the secure memory .

The illustrative memory additionally includes a basic input output system BIOS . The BIOS includes instructions e.g. a BIOS driver used during booting of the computing node to initialize the computing node during the boot process. In some embodiments the computing node may facilitate the orchestration of the VNFs through a main platform firmware or pre boot firmware such as an extension of the Intel platform chipset or the platform BIOS based on the Unified Extensible Firmware Interface UEFI specification which has several versions published by the Unified EFI Forum.

The data storage device may be embodied as any type of device or devices configured for short term or long term storage of data such as for example memory devices and circuits memory cards hard disk drives solid state drives or other data storage devices. In use as described below the data storage device and or the memory may store security monitoring policies configuration policies or other similar data.

The secure clock may be embodied as any hardware component s or circuitry capable of providing a secure timing signal and otherwise performing the functions described herein. For example in the illustrative embodiment the secure clock may generate a timing signal that is separate and functionally independent from other clock sources of the computing node . Accordingly in such embodiments the secure clock may be immune or resistant to alteration by other entities such as for example software executing on the computing node . It should be appreciated that in some embodiments the secure clock may be embodied as standalone component s or circuitry whereas in other embodiments the secure clock may be integrated with or form a secure portion of another component e.g. the processor . For example in some embodiments the secure clock may be implemented via an on chip oscillator and or embodied as a secure clock of a manageability engine ME . It should further be appreciated that the secure clock may be synchronized to the secure clocks of the other computing nodes and granularity may be of the order that can distinguish distinct message timings.

The communication circuitry of the computing node may be embodied as any communication circuit device or collection thereof capable of enabling communications between the computing node and another computing node the NFV orchestrator the VIM the endpoint devices and or other connected network enabled computing node. The communication circuitry may be configured to use any one or more communication technology e.g. wired or wireless communications and associated protocols e.g. Ethernet Bluetooth Wi Fi WiMAX GSM LTE etc. to effect such communication. The illustrative communication circuitry includes a network interface card NIC and a switch . The NIC may be embodied as one or more add in boards daughtercards network interface cards controller chips chipsets or other devices that may be used by the computing node . For example the NIC may be embodied as an expansion card coupled to the I O subsystem over an expansion bus such as PCI Express. The switch may be embodied as any hardware component s or circuitry capable of performing network switch operations and otherwise performing the functions described herein such as an Ethernet switch chip a PCI Express switching chip etc.

As discussed above the computing node may also include a security engine which may be embodied as any hardware component s or circuitry capable of establishing a trusted execution environment TEE on the computing node . In particular the security engine may support executing code and or accessing data that is independent and secure from other code executed by the computing node . The security engine may be embodied as a Trusted Platform Module TPM a manageability engine ME an out of band processor or other security engine device or collection of devices. In some embodiments the security engine may be embodied as a converged security and manageability engine CSME incorporated in a system on a chip SoC of the computing node .

Referring again to the illustrative NFV security architecture is communicatively coupled between the two endpoint devices . In the illustrative system the first endpoint device is designated as endpoint device and the second endpoint device is designated as endpoint device . However it should be appreciated that any number of endpoint devices may be connected through the NFV security architecture . The endpoint devices are communicatively coupled with the NFV security architecture via a network not shown using wired or wireless technology to form an end to end communication system in which the endpoint device can communicate with the endpoint device and vice versa. Accordingly the NFV security architecture can monitor and process the network communication traffic i.e. network packets transmitted between the endpoint devices .

The network via which the endpoint devices communicate may be embodied as any type of wired or wireless communication network including cellular networks such as Global System for Mobile Communications GSM or Long Term Evolution LTE telephony networks digital subscriber line DSL networks cable networks local or wide area networks global networks e.g. the Internet or any combination thereof. For example in some embodiments the network may be embodied as an NFV based Long Term Evolution LTE network having a vEPC architecture. It should be appreciated that the network may serve as a centralized network and in some embodiments may be communicatively coupled to another network e.g. the Internet . Accordingly the network may include a variety of network devices virtual and physical such as routers switches network hubs servers storage devices compute devices etc. as needed to facilitate communication between the endpoint devices and the NFV security architecture .

The endpoint devices may be embodied as any type of computation or computer device capable of performing the functions described herein including without limitation a smartphone a mobile computing device a tablet computer a laptop computer a notebook computer a computer a server e.g. stand alone rack mounted blade etc. a network appliance e.g. physical or virtual a web appliance a distributed computing system a processor based system and or a multiprocessor system. As shown in similar to the computing node of the illustrative endpoint device e.g. one of the endpoint devices of includes a processor an input output I O subsystem a memory a data storage device one or more peripheral devices and communication circuitry . As such further descriptions of the like components are not repeated herein for clarity of the description with the understanding that the description of the corresponding components provided above in regard to the computing node applies equally to the corresponding components of the endpoint devices .

Of course the endpoint devices may include other or additional components such as those commonly found in a mobile computing device capable of operating in a telecommunications infrastructure in other embodiments e.g. various input output devices . Additionally in some embodiments one or more of the illustrative components may be incorporated in or otherwise form a portion of another component. The peripheral devices may include any number of input output devices interface devices and or other peripheral devices. For example in some embodiments the peripheral devices may include a display touch screen graphics circuitry keyboard mouse speaker system and or other input output devices interface devices and or peripheral devices.

Referring now to an illustrative embodiment of the NFV security architecture of for monitoring the security of the NFV security architecture includes the NFV security services controller the NFV orchestrator the VIM and the NFV infrastructure of . Each security monitoring component of the illustrative embodiment includes a globally unique security identifier that uniquely identifies the corresponding security monitoring component. The globally unique security identifier may be based on for example a media access control MAC address of the security monitoring component an internet protocol IP address assigned to the security monitoring component an identifier embedded into a secure memory of the security monitoring component e.g. a BIOS UEFI identifier an identifier of an operating system of the security monitoring component etc. . The globally unique security identifier may be protected within a physical TPM or a software based trusted module such as a firmware TPM on the security engine e.g. a manageability engine ME a converged security and manageability engine CSME an innovation engine IE a secure partition a security co processor or separate processor core etc. and or stored in a secure location e.g. the secure memory . Any of the security monitoring components or the functionality thereof may be instantiated in a secure environment e.g. the TEE supports of the processor . As such every instantiation may be identified by the globally unique security identifier. Further in some embodiments the globally unique security identifier may be bound to a use case messaging upon instantiation.

Additionally each unique usage instance includes a unique usage identifier. Accordingly multiple usages and flows within the NFV security architecture can be uniquely identified such as for auditing authenticating controlling debugging etc. As described previously in some embodiments the NFV security architecture may include one or more instances of the NFV security services controller the NFV orchestrator and the VIM . In such embodiments the multiple instances of the components may be mirrored to use the same external identifier and additionally include a unique internal identifier e.g. an instance security identifier to distinguish between the mirrored components.

Further each logical component of the NFV security architecture may be segregated into more than one physical and or logical components to address specific usages such as SFC policy inter VNF communication keys VIM controller policies etc. In such embodiments the physical and or logical components may be signed along with a globally unique identifier GUID by the operator or cloud provider which may be verified prior to installation. The signing may be performed using a private key whose public key e.g. certificate key fuse key device specific key etc. may be embedded into the NFV infrastructure and accessed by the NFV security services agents. Accordingly the verification may be performed by the NFV security services agents within strict control of the environment of the physical and or logical components.

The NFV security services controller is communicatively coupled to the NFV orchestrator via a secure communication channel . As discussed above in some embodiments the NFV security services controller and the NFV orchestrator may be co located such as in the MANO architectural framework. Further the NFV security services controller is communicatively coupled to the VIM via a secure communication channel and the NFV orchestrator is communicatively coupled to the VIM via a secure communication channel . The secure communication channels as well as the other secure communication channels of the NFV security architecture may be protected with secure keys e.g. session keys and or other cryptographic keys used by the NFV security services controller to establish a root of trust RoT to establish the communication channels e.g. the secure communication channels of the NFV security architecture . In some embodiments the secure keys may be embodied as pairwise session keys that may be refreshed periodically. As such the NFV security services controller can be configured to act as an authentication server.

The NFV security architecture additionally includes an operations support systems and business support systems OSS BSS that is communicatively coupled to the NFV orchestrator via a communication channel . The OSS BSS may be embodied as any type of computation or computing node capable of performing the functions described herein such as supporting various end to end telecommunication services in a telephone network. In some embodiments the OSS BSS may be configured to support management functions such as network inventory service provisioning network configuration and fault management as well as various business functions to support end to end telecommunication services that may be supported by the OSS BSS such as product management customer management revenue management order management etc.

As described previously in use the NFV security services controller provides and enforces security monitoring policies across the various security monitoring components of the NFV security architecture . To do so the NFV security services controller transmits the security monitoring policies to the NFV orchestrator and the VIM across the respective secure communication channels. The NFV security services controller is further communicatively coupled to an NFV security monitoring analytics system via a secure communication channel .

The NFV security monitoring analytics system which will be described further below provides the NFV security services controller with a remediation policy i.e. an updated security monitoring policy based on whether the NFV security monitoring analytics system has detected a security threat such as an attack e.g. a denial of service DoS attack a man in the middle attack eavesdropping a data modification attack etc. or anomaly in the analysis of telemetry data received in accordance with the presently enforced security monitoring policy. Accordingly the NFV security services controller is configured to enforce any updates to the security monitoring policy based on the remediation policy such as by a remedial action that may be taken to address the threat or validate the anomaly. For example the remedial action may include blocking certain network traffic i.e. certain network packets streaming certain network traffic to a deep packet inspection DPI VNF instance rate limiting or throttling the network traffic etc. Accordingly the NFV security services controller may then transmit a security policy update to the NFV security services provider of the VIM .

Additionally the illustrative NFV security services controller interfaces with two logical secure databases an audit database and an NFV security database . The audit database is a secure database that includes security audit information relative to the various security monitoring components of the NFV security architecture . The security audit information may include configuration change logs network traces debug traces application traces etc. In the illustrative NFV security architecture the audit database is additionally configured to interface with other network and security monitoring components of the NFV security architecture such as the VIM and the various NFV security services agents distributed across the NFV security architecture which will be discussed in further detail below. In some embodiments the various security monitoring components of the illustrative NFV security architecture that interface with the audit database may use a secure clock e.g. the secure clock of to timestamp the telemetry data received at the audit database for secure storage. Accordingly the NFV security services controller can audit the telemetry data i.e. verify and sequence the telemetry data based on the timestamp of the telemetry data.

The NFV security database is embodied as a secure database used for deploying security monitoring across the NFV security architecture i.e. across the NFV security architecture . Accordingly the NFV security database may include security data structures such as NFV subscriber tenants SFC policies SFC path protection policies controller policies for the VIM e.g. VIM controller NFV security monitoring policies and configurations NFV security provisioning credentials e.g. for protecting SFCs service functioning chains inter VNF policies one or more cloud operating system security policies and or tenant specific security policies.

As described previously in use the NFV orchestrator manages the lifecycle of the VNFs in the NFV infrastructure including instantiation scaling out in measuring performance correlating events termination etc. To do so the NFV orchestrator is configured to provide instructions to a VNF manager via a secure communication channel to manage the initialization and configuration i.e. scaling and deployment of the VNFs of the NFV infrastructure see the VNF instances based on resources of the NFV infrastructure . The VNF manager is further configured to perform overall coordination and adaptation for configuration and event reporting for the NFV infrastructure . The VNF manager is additionally configured to update and ensure the integrity of the VNFs. To do so the VNF manager is configured to consult with the VIM via a secure communication channel to determine the available physical resources on which to instantiate particular VNF instances. It should be appreciated that the VIM may make such a determination using any suitable techniques algorithms and or mechanisms. It should be further appreciated that in some embodiments a single VNF manger may be responsible for managing one or more VNF instances. In other words in some embodiments a VNF manager may be instantiated for each of the VNF instances.

As also described previously in use the VIM controls and manages the allocation of virtual and hardware compute storage and network resources of the NFV infrastructure via messages securely transmitted via a secure communication channel . Additionally the VIM may be configured to collect and securely forward performance measurements and events of the NFV infrastructure compute storage and network resources e.g. physical and virtual to the audit database . The illustrative VIM includes an NFV security services provider a VIM controller and a number of VIM components . The NFV security services provider is configured to receive a security monitoring policy from the NFV security services controller via the secure communication channel implement the security monitoring policy across the various security monitoring components of the NFV infrastructure and provision VNF instances e.g. the service function chain VNFs of the VNF instances based on the security monitoring policy received from the NFV security services controller .

Additionally the NFV security services provider is configured to securely communicate with one or more of the NFV security services agents of the VIM and the NFV infrastructure . The VIM controller is configured to function as a network policy controller or a networking service controller such as a software defined networking SDN controller or an OpenStack Neutron for example. The VIM components may include any additional physical and or virtual compute storage and network resources of the VIM as may be needed to install the VNF instances and or activate services such as VNF image management controllers e.g. OpenStack Nova for installation and provisioning the VNF instances . The illustrative VIM controller includes an NFV security services agent that is configured to collect telemetry data of the VIM controller such as policy based information as well as from the other VIM components .

The NFV infrastructure includes all of the hardware and software components i.e. virtual compute storage and network resources virtualization software hardware compute storage and network resources etc. of the computing nodes from which the VNFs may be deployed. It should be appreciated that the physical and or virtual components of the NFV infrastructure may span across different locations data centers geographies providers etc. Additionally it should be further appreciated that the network through which the components of the NFV infrastructure use to communicate and interface through may be considered to be included in the NFV infrastructure .

The illustrative NFV infrastructure includes one or more platforms the BIOS of a hypervisor and one or more VNF instances . The illustrative platforms include a first platform which is designated as platform and a second platform which is designated as platform N i.e. the Nth platform wherein N is a positive integer and designates one or more additional platforms . Each of the platforms includes the I O subsystem the NIC and or the switch of . The illustrative platform additionally includes an NFV security services agent . The NFV security services agent is configured to collect telemetry data at a hardware level i.e. from the I O subsystem the NIC and or the switch via a secure communication channel . Accordingly the telemetry data collected by the security monitoring collection agent may include NIC configuration information various hardware flaws errors and or anomalies and network packet behaviors e.g. dropped packets . Upon collection the telemetry data is securely transmitted to the NFV security monitoring analytics system such as via a secure communication channel .

The hypervisor or virtual machine monitor VMM in use runs the VNF instances generally via one or more virtual machines VMs for running each of the VNF instances . In some embodiments the VNF instances may include a virtual switch vSwitch a virtual router vRouter a firewall a network address translation NAT a DPI an evolved packet core EPC a mobility management entity MME a packet data network gateway PGW a serving gateway SGW a billing function and or other virtual network function. In some embodiments a particular VNF instance may have multiple sub instances which could be executing on a single platform e.g. the platform or across different platforms e.g. the platform and the platform . In other words when virtualized network functions traditionally handled by physical hardware co located with a particular platform may be distributed as a number of VNF instances across one or more of the platforms . Each of the VNF instances may include any number of VNFs each of which may include one or more VNF components VNFCs not shown . It should be appreciated that the VNF instances may be embodied as any suitable virtual network functions similarly the VNFCs may be embodied as any suitable VNF components. The VNFCs are processes and or instances that cooperate to deliver the functionality of one or more VNF instances . For example in some embodiments the VNFCs may be sub modules of the VNF instances .

Similar to the VNF instances it should be appreciated that the VNFCs may be distributed across one or more platforms . Further it should be appreciated that a particular VNF instance may be distributed across multiple platforms and still form a part of a VNF instance established on a one of the platforms . In some embodiments the VNF instances and or the VNFCs may be executing on the same platform e.g. the platform or the platform or within the same data center but on different platforms . Further in some embodiments the VNF instances and or the VNFCs may be executing across different data centers.

The hypervisor is configured to establish and or utilize various virtualized hardware resources e.g. virtual memory virtual operating systems virtual networking components etc. of the NFV infrastructure . Additionally the hypervisor may facilitate communication across the VNF instances and or the VNFCs. The illustrative hypervisor includes a virtual router communicatively coupled to an NFV security services agent via a secure communication channel . The NFV security services agent is configured to receive and implement the security monitoring policy from the NFV security services controller via the NFV security services provider . In other words the NFV security services agent is configured to perform active and or passive security monitoring based on the security monitoring policy. Further the NFV security services agent is configured to upon activation of the NFV security services agent map network traffic for monitoring and or collection to the security monitoring policy.

The illustrative NFV security services agent includes an SFC agent which will be described further below and a security monitoring collection agent . The security monitoring collection agent is configured to collect the telemetry information for the component of the NFV security architecture at which the NFV security services agent resides. In the illustrative NFV security services agent the component is the hypervisor whereas for the NFV security services agent the component is the platform . It should be appreciated that while only the NFV security services agent shows the security monitoring collection agent and the SFC agent each of the NFV security services agents e.g. the NFV security services agent the NFV security services agent the NFV security services agent the NFV security services agent and the NFV security services agent distributed across the NFV security architecture may include an instance of a security monitoring collection agent and or an SFC agent. The security monitoring collection agent of the NFV security services agent is configured to collect telemetry data at a BIOS level i.e. at the BIOS and or the hypervisor . The telemetry data collected by the security monitoring collection agent is securely transmitted to the NFV security monitoring analytics system such as via the secure communication channel .

The illustrative VNF instances include a network VNF configured to perform as a virtual networking device e.g. a vS witch a vRouter a firewall a NAT a DPI an EPC an MME a PGW a SGW etc. a monitoring services VNF configured to function as a dedicated monitoring agent and a service function chain that includes one or more service function chain VNFs capable of performing a particular virtual function or service.

The illustrative service function chain VNFs of the service function chain include a first service function chain VNF which is designated as VNF and a second service function chain VNF which is designated as VNF N i.e. the Nth service function chain VNF wherein N is a positive integer and designates one or more additional service function chain VNF instances . Further each of the illustrative service function chain VNFs includes an instance of an NFV security services agent i.e. an NFV security services agent of the VNF and an NFV security services agent of the VNF N . Each of the NFV security services agents is configured to collect telemetry data at a virtual environment level i.e. collect VNF telemetry data from each of the service function chain VNFs on which the NFV security services agent resides . While each of the illustrative service function chain VNFs of the service function chain includes an NFV security services agent it should be appreciated that some embodiments a single NFV security services agent e.g. the NFV security services agent of the monitoring services VNF may be used to monitor and collect the telemetry data.

The network VNF may include a packet processor to process the network traffic at the user data plane such as the Intel Data Plane Development Kit Intel DPDK . The monitoring services VNF may include an NFV security services agent SSA configured to collect telemetry data at the virtual environment level i.e. collect VNF telemetry data from each of the VNF instances . The telemetry data collected by a security monitoring collection agent not shown of the NFV security services agent is securely transmitted to the NFV security monitoring analytics system such as via the secure communication channel .

The NFV security monitoring analytics system is configured to securely acquire telemetry data relative to the NFV infrastructure from the various NFV security services agents via the secure communication channel and VNF configuration data relative to the VNF manager via the secure communication channel . The VNF configuration data may include the number of instantiated NFVs the number of activated NFVs the function or service or portion of function or service being provided by each NFV etc. Accordingly the NFV security monitoring analytics system can analyze the telemetry data and the VNF configuration data to detect whether any threats and or anomalies are present. In some embodiments the NFV security monitoring analytics system may analyze the telemetry data and the VNF configuration data to develop telemetry patterns from which security threats may be identified. The NFV security monitoring analytics system is further configured to deliver a remediation policy i.e. an updated security monitoring policy to the security monitoring components for enforcement in response to having detected a security threat.

The illustrative NFV security architecture includes a number of security monitoring components specifically configured to monitor the security of service function chains executed within the NFV infrastructure . The service function chaining SFC security monitoring components include an SFC security controller of the NFV security services controller an SFC security provider of the NFV security services provider of the VIM and a number of SFC agents distributed throughout the NFV infrastructure . The SFC security monitoring components of the NFV security architecture are mutually authenticated for secure communication and may be built upon a secure verified boot. Accordingly the SFC security monitoring components of the NFV security architecture can be deployed across different geographies across different hosting data centers and or over untrusted networks. Further the SFC security monitoring components of the NFV security architecture can be securely provisioned within the NFV security architecture .

The SFC security monitoring components can be performed on the control management and or data planes running atop various VNFs such as within a vEPC architecture for example. In some embodiments a runtime SFC specific security monitoring policy may be triggered by events that occur on one plane while the security monitoring performed based on the security monitoring policy may be initiated on that plane and or one or both of the other planes. For example an event may be triggered in the control plane such as by a malicious or malformed network packet and the remediation policy might include SFC monitoring and network data packet collection for a match of the event triggering network packet across the control management and data planes.

The SFC security controller is configured to orchestrate SFC security policies across NFV infrastructure . To do so the SFC security controller is configured to communicate with the NFV security database to access the SFC security policies and credentials. The SFC security policies and credentials may include any type of security policies such as for example transportation policies i.e. for secure transport of messages security keys etc. and policies for security monitoring aspects at the time of secure provisioning of the VNFs and or installation at various nodes of the NFV infrastructure . The SFC security policies and credentials may additionally include policies for communications across the SFCs and or internal to the VNFs of the SFCs such as whether the communications are to be transmitted over hardware of software i.e. virtual network interface cards switches and or routers. The SFC security policies and credentials may be based on a flow identifier a tenant identifier a subscriber identifier e.g. an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI a geographic location a regulatory domain etc.

In some embodiments the specific policies may be configured into the SFC security controller through the OSS BSS and or an existing security infrastructure such as a 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP security infrastructure. It should be appreciated that in some embodiments for run time policies e.g. monitoring certain subscriber flows tenants application tags etc. the policies may be delivered using the existing security infrastructure. As described previously the security monitoring components of the NFV security architecture may be mutually authenticated. In other embodiments the SFC security controller may deliver the security keys between the SFC agents and or other telemetry gathering components. Additionally or alternatively in some embodiments the existing security infrastructure may also deliver the security keys that may be used for various inter VNF or per SFC communication or policy enforcement. Additionally the SFC security controller is further configured to securely provide the SFC security policies to one or more SFC security providers via the secure communication channel .

Similar to the NFV security services controller the SFC security controller is configured to securely receive a remediation security monitoring policy from the NFV security monitoring analytics system based on analyzed telemetry data received at the NFV security monitoring analytics system the process for which is described further below. Also similar to the remediation policy received by the NFV security services controller the remediation security monitoring policy received by the SFC security controller may include a remedial action to take on the network traffic suspected by the NFV security monitoring analytics system based on the analysis of the telemetry data performed by the NFV security monitoring analytics system . The remedial action may include blocking certain network traffic streaming certain network traffic to a deep packet inspection DPI VNF instance rate limiting or throttling the network traffic or any other action that may be taken on suspected network traffic to further identify a root cause or validate the security threat.

The SFC security controller is further configured to deliver a security monitoring policy update to one or more SFC security providers of the illustrative NFV security services provider that are communicatively coupled to the SFC security controller . The SFC security provider is configured to transmit the security monitoring policy update across the various network and security monitoring components of the VIM including the VIM controller . The SFC security provider is additionally configured to transmit the security monitoring policy update including any appropriate security monitoring actions across the various SFC agents within the NFV security services agents that are distributed throughout the NFV infrastructure .

While the illustrative NFV infrastructure only includes the SFC agent of the NFV security services agent it should be appreciated that an SFC agent may be instantiated within any one or more of the NFV security services agents distributed throughout the NFV infrastructure . The SFC agents e.g. the SFC agent are configured to communicate with various security monitoring components of the NFV infrastructure to perform extraction of telemetry data and securely deliver the extracted telemetry data based on the security monitoring policy. The telemetry data extraction i.e. collection can be initiated using appropriate hooks within the NFV infrastructure such as at an Open vSwitch an Open vRouter the DPDK a hardware NIC e.g. the NIC a hardware switch e.g. the switch or a hardware router etc. that are connected with the SFC agent.

It should be appreciated that similar to the security monitoring collection agent of the illustrative NFV security services agent each of the SFC agents may additionally include a collection agent not shown specific to that SFC agent and or rely on the security monitoring collection agent of the NFV security services agent on which the SFC agent resides which are not shown to preserve clarity of the illustration. In other words the telemetry data extracted during passive and or active security monitoring by the SFC agent may be collected by a collection agent of the SFC agent e.g. a modified sFlow etc. running on the NFV infrastructure .

As discussed above the telemetry data may be embodied as any type of data on which a security analysis may be performed. For example the telemetry data may include security statistics as well as configuration and health data from the various hardware resources e.g. compute storage and network virtualization software and virtual resources e.g. compute storage and network within the NFV infrastructure . Additionally or alternatively the telemetry data may include complete or partial e.g. a header a payload etc. network packets of a specific flow i.e. determined by an identifier of a particular flow to be monitored and or collected for packaging and transmission a device a node an administrative domain a geography and or any administratively configured flow etc. To do so the SFC agent may be provided with an identifier that uniquely identifies the network packet the device the node the geography etc. Further the telemetry data may be specific to a particular SFC consolidates SFC flows or tunneled SFC flows for example. Additionally or alternatively the telemetry data may include full SFC traffic packet flows or a subset of SFC traffic packet flows such as virtual local area network VLAN and layer two L2 or layer three L3 tunneled packets.

The SFC agents may extract telemetry data from any security monitoring components and or communication channels of the NFV infrastructure such as a secure VM physical layer NICs switches routers and or fabrics. For example in some embodiments an SFC agent instantiated and activated within an NFV security services agent of one of the VNF instances e.g. the NFV security services agent NFV security services agent or NFV security services agent may communicate with an Intel DPDK user plane application e.g. a vSwitch a vRouter EPC systems etc. to extract telemetry data. In another example in some embodiments the SFC agent may communicate with the virtual router e.g. an Open vSwitch of the virtual router to extract telemetry data.

In use the SFC agents package and securely deliver the telemetry data to the NFV security monitoring analytics system via the secure communication channel . The SFC security controller provides and configured protection credentials are received from and configured by the between the various SFC agents and the NFV security monitoring analytics system . To do so the SFC agents may use manual key provisioning pre shared keys and or bootstrapping using another mutual authentication function of the SFC security controller . Further the communication channel can be protected by one or more secure keys such as a unique pairwise random key session that has a configured reasonably finite key lifetime.

Referring now to in use the NFV security services controller establishes an environment during operation. The illustrative environment of the NFV security services controller includes a secure communication module a security monitoring policy management module a protected transmission control module an NFV security services agent control module and a telemetry data auditing module . The illustrative environment is communicatively coupled to the audit database which stores security audit information and the NFV security database of which stores the security monitoring policy. The various modules of the environment may be embodied as hardware firmware software or a combination thereof. For example the various modules logic and other components of the environment may form a portion of or otherwise be established by hardware components of the NFV security services controller . As such in some embodiments any one or more of the modules of the environment may be embodied as a circuit or collection of electrical devices e.g. a secure communication circuit a security management circuit a protected transmission control circuit an NFV security services agent control circuit and a telemetry data auditing circuit etc. . Additionally or alternatively in some embodiments one or more of the illustrative modules may form a portion of another module and or one or more of the illustrative modules and or submodules which may be embodied as standalone or independent modules.

The secure communication module is configured to facilitate the secure transmission of data e.g. messages security monitoring policies etc. to and from the NFV security services controller . To do so the secure communication module is configured to securely receive security policy information from external security systems e.g. from an external security controller the OSS BSS of etc . Additionally the secure communication module is configured to receive a remediation security policy from the NFV security monitoring analytics system via the secure communication channel .

The secure communication module is further configured to securely transmit an updated security policy to the NFV security services provider via the secure communication channel . Similarly the secure communication module is configured to facilitate secure transmission of data between the NFV security services controller and the NFV security database as well as the NFV security services controller and the audit database . For all of the secure messages transmitted by the secure communication module the secure communication module includes a unique identifier of the instance of the NFV security services controller that is performing the transmission as well as an authentication key. To do so the secure communication module may perform various key management functions cryptographic functions secure communication channel management and or other security functions such as using pairwise session keys that are refreshed periodically. Accordingly the security monitoring component that receives the message can authenticate the message via the NFV security services controller .

The security monitoring policy management module is configured to orchestrate the management of the security monitoring policy across the NFV security architecture based on the received security monitoring policy. To do so the security monitoring policy management module includes a security monitoring policy distribution module and a security monitoring policy enforcement module . The security monitoring policy distribution module is configured to transmit the security monitoring policy which includes security monitoring component policies configurations and functions to various security monitoring components throughout the NFV security architecture such as to the NFV security services agents distributed across the NFV security architecture .

The security monitoring policy enforcement module is configured enforce the security monitoring policies transmitted to the various security monitoring components of the NFV security architecture . To do so the security monitoring policy enforcement module is configured to enforce the security monitoring policy by verifying that the NFV security services agents are configured in accordance with the security monitoring policy as well as monitoring and collecting telemetry data in accordance with the security monitoring policy. For example the security monitoring policy enforcement module may be configured to verify the security monitoring policy at the VNF instances of the NFV infrastructure such as at VNF runtime or at on boarding of the VNF at the NFV infrastructure to ensure the VNF instances are configured correctly and that the NFV security services agents presently running thereon are monitoring and collecting telemetry data that is consistent with the security monitoring policy. Additionally the security monitoring policy enforcement module may verify the topology of a service function chain e.g. the service function chain of that includes a plurality of VNF instances e.g. the service function chain VNFs of the service function chain based on the security monitoring policy.

The protected transmission control module is configured to set up protected transmission policies e.g. apply security for secure communication channel protection for the VNFs such as the service function chain VNFs of the service function chain . As described previously the NFV security services controller may be configured to act as an authentication server to protect the secure communication channels. Accordingly the protected transmission control module may additionally include a message authentication module configured to perform as an authentication server i.e. perform authentication on the messages transmitted and received throughout the secure communication channels of the NFV security architecture . For example the protected transmission control module may utilize one or more secure keys e.g. fuse keys session keys or any type of cryptographic keys to establish a root of trust RoT to secure the communication channels e.g. via a shared memory . In some embodiments the secure keys may be embodied as pairwise session keys that may be refreshed periodically. Similarly the protected transmission control module is configured to protect the secure communication channels between the security monitoring components and the audit database .

The NFV security services agent control module is configured to manage NFV security services agents see which are configured to deliver various security functions throughout the VIM and the NFV infrastructure . To do so the NFV security services agent control module prior to booting of the NFV security services agents seeds the appropriate security and policy configuration information e.g. which VNF manager to connect to which may be extracted by the NFV security services agents at runtime to perform particular tasks such as to connect to the appropriate VNF manager. For example in an embodiment wherein the NFV security architecture includes a number of instantiated VNFs of a service function chain e.g. the service function chain VNFs of the service function chain the NFV security services agent control module is configured to activate the VNFs of the service function chain initiate deployment i.e. spin up and instantiation of the NFV security services agents by executing a bootstrap of an NFV security services agent on one or more of the VNFs of the service function chain and receive bootstrap information e.g. bootstrap configuration parameters that may be used by the bootstrap to instantiate the NFV security services agent personalization information for that particular NFV security services agent instance and or license information of the NFV security services agent instance etc. .

The NFV security services agent control module is further configured to notify the corresponding VNF manager of an instantiated NFV security services agent. The NFV security services agents may be configured to perform a mutually authenticated key exchange for establishing the secure communication channel with the protected transmission control module which the NFV security services agent control module can use to personalize the NFV security services agents e.g. set name security policy groups per tenant policies distribute key material for secure session establishment with the VNF manager of the VNF instance on which a particular NFV security services agent resides etc. .

The telemetry data auditing module is configured to perform an audit on the telemetry data stored at the audit database . To do so the telemetry data auditing module is configured to analyze a timestamp associated with the telemetry data. As described previously the telemetry data is timestamped by a secure clock e.g. the secure clock of prior to being transmitted to the audit database . Accordingly the telemetry data auditing module is further configured to verify and sequence the telemetry data as part of the audit.

Referring now to in use each NFV security services agent e.g. NFV security services agents of establishes an environment during operation. The illustrative environment of the corresponding NFV security services agent includes a secure communication module a telemetry data monitoring module a telemetry data packaging module and a bootstrap execution module . The illustrative environment additionally includes a security policy database in which to store the security monitoring policy at the NFV security services agent and a telemetry database in which to store the telemetry data at the NFV security services agent.

The various modules of the environment may be embodied as hardware firmware software or a combination thereof. For example the various modules logic and other components of the environment may form a portion of or otherwise be established by hardware components of the NFV security services agent. As such in some embodiments any one or more of the modules of the environment may be embodied as a circuit or collection of electrical devices e.g. a secure communication circuit a telemetry data monitoring circuit a telemetry data packaging circuit and a bootstrap execution circuit etc. . Additionally or alternatively in some embodiments one or more of the illustrative modules may form a portion of another module and or one or more of the illustrative modules and or submodules may be embodied as a standalone or independent module.

The secure communication module is configured to facilitate the secure transmission of data e.g. messages telemetry data etc. to and from the NFV security services agent. For example as shown in the NFV security services agents of the NFV infrastructure are configured to transmit telemetry data to the NFV security monitoring analytics system and the audit database using protection credentials provided by the NFV security services controller . The telemetry data monitoring module is configured to monitor telemetry data of the component and or level at which the NFV security services agent is located. The telemetry data monitoring module is additionally configured to monitor the telemetry data actively and or passively. The telemetry data may include virtual and or physical configuration data as well as security statistics complete network packets network packet headers or all network packets associated with a particular flow a specific device a specific evolved Node B a.k.a. E UTRAN Node B eNodeB and eNB a particular geography or any administratively configured flow.

The telemetry data packaging module is configured to collect and package telemetry data such as the telemetry data monitored at the telemetry data monitoring module . Accordingly the collected and packaged telemetry data may be any type of data including information of the hardware resources e.g. compute storage and network virtualization software and or virtual resources e.g. compute storage and network of the NFV infrastructure or the VIM such as VNF configuration settings I O subsystem settings NIC settings switch settings virtual router settings virtual switch settings virtual gateway settings vEPC settings controller settings network traffic information complete and or partial network packets etc. Further the telemetry data packaging module is configured to securely deliver the packaged telemetry data to a dedication analytics system e.g. the NFV security monitoring analytics system of such as via the secure communication module .

The telemetry data monitoring module and or the telemetry data packaging module may additionally include agent specific sub modules to monitor and or collect particular telemetry data. For example the illustrative telemetry data monitoring module includes an SFC telemetry data monitoring module to monitor telemetry data specific to a service function chain of the NFV infrastructure e.g. the service function chain . Similarly the illustrative telemetry data packaging module includes an SFC telemetry data packaging module to collect and package telemetry data specific to the service function chain of the network infrastructure being monitored such as by the SFC telemetry data monitoring module . Additionally the telemetry data packaging module and the SFC telemetry data packaging module are each configured to use a secure clock e.g. the secure clock of to timestamp the telemetry data for transmission to the audit database for secure storage.

The bootstrap execution module is configured to run a bootstrap to deploy the NFV security services agent which loads the NFV security services agent on a computing node e.g. one of the computing nodes . The bootstrap execution module is further configured to run the bootstrap on any of the network processing components of the NFV security architecture including a VNF instance e.g. one of the service function chain VNFs of the service function chain the hypervisor and one of the platforms for example.

Referring now to in use the NFV security services controller may execute a method for managing security monitoring services of the NFV security architecture . The method begins at block in which the NFV security services controller transmits a security monitoring policy to the VNFs that have been instantiated within the NFV infrastructure via a secure communication channel e.g. the communication channel of to the VIM . As described previously the security monitoring policy includes various monitoring rules which the VNFs use to determine which telemetry data to monitor and how to configure the resources and functionality of the VNFs. In use the NFV security services controller transmits the security monitoring policy over the secure communication channel to the NFV security services provider with an identifier that uniquely identifies the NFV security services controller . In some embodiments the NFV security services controller may receive the security monitoring policy from an external source such as an external controller or the OSS BSS of via the NFV orchestrator .

At block the NFV security services controller verifies the security monitoring policy at the VNFs. For example the NFV security services controller may verify the security monitoring policy at VNF runtime or at VNF on boarding at the NFV infrastructure . At block the NFV security services controller installs an SFC topology between multiple VNFs including paths i.e. communication paths therebetween based on the security monitoring policy. In some embodiments the NFV security services controller may at block apply security for the paths to protect the communications transmitted across the paths based on the security monitoring policy.

At block the NFV security services controller verifies the SFC topology based on the security monitoring policy to ensure compliance with the security monitoring policy. At block the NFV security services controller sets up protected transmission policies for the VNFs of the SFC e.g. the service function chain VNFs of the service function chain of . At block the NFV security services controller activates each of the VNFs of the SFC. To do so the NFV security services controller may transmit an activation signal via a secure communication channel to each of the VNFs. Additionally the activation signal similar to other signals i.e. messages transmitted from the NFV security services controller that require authentication includes the unique identifier such that the VNFs can authentication the activation signal.

At block the NFV security services controller initiates the deployment i.e. spin up and instantiation of an NFV security services agent. To do so the NFV security services controller executes a bootstrap for the NFV security services agent. As described previously NFV security services agents may be distributed throughout the VIM and or the NFV infrastructure to perform the security monitoring operation. Accordingly the NFV security services agent may be instantiated at a number of the security monitoring components of the NFV security architecture of such as one of the VNFs of the SFC.

At block the NFV security services controller determines whether bootstrap information was received from the instantiated NFV security services agent. If not the method loops back to block to continue to wait for the bootstrap information to be received from the instantiated NFV security services agent. If the NFV security services controller determines that the bootstrap information was received from the instantiated NFV security services agent the method advances to block wherein the NFV security services controller notifies a manager of the VNF in which the NFV security services agent was instantiated. The notification includes a unique identifier that corresponds to the instance of the VNF and another unique identifier that corresponds to the instance of the NFV security services agent. Accordingly the VNF manager can then communicate with and manage the instantiated NFV security services agent based on the unique identifiers. At block the NFV security services controller activates the instantiated NFV security services agent. At block the NFV security services controller enforces the security monitoring policy across the NFV security services agents distributed throughout the VIM and or the NFV infrastructure .

Referring now to in use the NFV security services controller may execute a method for updating a security monitoring policy. The method begins at block in which the NFV security services controller determines whether a remediation policy was received from the NFV security monitoring analytics system . As described previously the NFV security services agents distributed throughout the VIM and or the NFV infrastructure are configured to collect telemetry data which is securely transmitted to the NFV security monitoring analytics system for analysis to determine whether any threats and or anomalies are detected. Accordingly in the event that the NFV security monitoring analytics system detects such a security threat e.g. an attack or an anomaly the NFV security monitoring analytics system securely transmits a remediation policy directed toward resolving or further analyzing the detected security threat that triggered the remediation policy. If the NFV security services controller determines that the remediation policy was not received the method loops back to block until the remediation policy is received.

If the NFV security services controller received the remediation policy at block the NFV security services controller updates the present security monitoring policy based on the remediation policy received at block . At block the NFV security services controller transmits a security monitoring policy update to the NFV security services provider via a secure communication channel e.g. the communication channel of to the VIM . Accordingly the security monitoring policy update can then be further transmitted from the NFV security services provider to the NFV security services agents distributed throughout the VIM and or the NFV infrastructure .

In some embodiments at block the NFV security services controller additionally transmits an identifier unique to the NFV security services controller with the security monitoring policy to the NFV security services provider via the secure communication channel. Additionally or alternatively in some embodiments at block the NFV security services controller additionally transmits one or more remedial actions to be taken in response to the remediation policy with the security monitoring policy to the NFV security services provider via the secure communication channel. For example the remedial action s may include blocking certain network traffic streaming certain network traffic to a deep packet inspection DPI VNF instance rate limiting or throttling the network traffic etc. At block the NFV security services controller enforces the updated security monitoring policy across the NFV security services agents distributed throughout the VIM and or the NFV infrastructure .

Referring now to an embodiment of a communication flow for initializing an NFV security services agent includes various security monitoring components of the NFV security architecture of . The illustrative communication flow includes the NFV orchestrator the NFV security services controller the NFV security services provider the NFV infrastructure one of the NFV security services agents e.g. the NFV security services agent the NFV security services agent the NFV security services agent the NFV security services agent and the NFV security services agent and the VNF manager . The illustrative communication flow additionally includes a number of data flows some of which may be executed separately or together depending on the embodiment.

At data flow the NFV orchestrator transmits a security monitoring policy received from the OSS BSS to the NFV security services controller . At data flow the NFV security services controller securely transmits a command with a unique identifier of the NFV security services controller to the NFV security services provider to instantiate an NFV security services agent. At data flow the NFV security services provider securely transmits a command with a unique identifier of the NFV security services controller and or the NFV security services provider to the NFV infrastructure to deploy i.e. spin up and instantiate an NFV security services agent.

At data flow the NFV infrastructure spins up the NFV security services agent. As described previously the NFV security services agents may be spun up at various locations within the NFV infrastructure including NFVs e.g. the NFV security services agent the NFV security services agent and the NFV security services agent the hypervisor e.g. the NFV security services agent and the platforms e.g. the NFV security services agent . At data flow the NFV security services agent is instantiated i.e. a bootstrap of the NFV security services agent is initiated . At data flow the NFV security services agent undergoes the bootstrap execution process. At data flow the NFV security services agent transmits bootstrap information to the NFV security services controller .

At data flow the NFV security services controller notifies the VNF manager that is responsible for managing the NFV security services agent. The notification may include a unique identifier that corresponds to the instance of the NFV security services agent as well as that another unique identifier corresponds to the component on which the NFV security services agent e.g. one of the service function chain VNFs of the service function chain the hypervisor one of the platforms etc. . At data flow the instantiated NFV security services agent establishes a management session with the VNF manager .

At data flow the NFV security services controller enforces the security monitoring policy at the NFV security services provider . At data flow the NFV security services provider enforces a NFV security services agent portion of the security monitoring policy at the NFV security services agent. At block the NFV security services controller activates the NFV security services agent. To do so the NFV security services controller provides an activation signal to the NFV security services agent via a secure communication channel. Additionally consistent with other messages transmitted by the NFV security services controller that need to be authenticated the activation signal may include the unique identifier. At data flow the NFV security services agent maps network traffic to the security monitoring policy. Accordingly the NFV security services agent can monitor and collect telemetry data in accordance with the security monitoring policy.

Referring now to in use one of the NFV security services agents may execute a method for monitoring the security of the NFV security architecture . The method begins at block in which the NFV security services agent determines whether an instantiation request was received. If not the method loops back to block to continue to wait for an instantiation request. If the instantiation request was received at block the method advances to block . At block the NFV security services agent runs a bootstrap process to deploy the NFV security services agent which loads the NFV security services agent on a computing node e.g. one of the computing nodes . Accordingly the bootstrap process may allow for optimization based on the NFV infrastructure and or the component of the NFV infrastructure on which the NFV security services agent is deployed such as acceleration scalability rapid deployment etc. of the NFV security services agents across the NFV infrastructure .

At block the NFV security services agent transmits bootstrap information to the NFV security services controller . The bootstrap information may include bootstrap configuration parameters that may be used by the bootstrap to instantiate the NFV security services agent personalization information for a particular NFV security services agent instance and or license information of the NFV security services agent instance for example. At block the NFV security services agent establishes a management session with an VNF manager e.g. the VNF manager . Accordingly the VNF manager with which the management session has been established can assume management control of the NFV security services agent. At block the NFV security services agent receives a security monitoring policy for active and or passive monitoring from the NFV security services controller via the NFV security services provider . Accordingly the NFV security services agent may only receive a portion of the security monitoring policy that is relative to the NFV security services agent.

At block the NFV security services agent maps the network traffic data for monitoring and or collection based on the security monitoring policy. In other words the NFV security services agent maps which network traffic to monitor based on the security monitoring policy. At block the NFV security services agent performs the security monitoring e.g. the security monitoring of the mapped network traffic based on the security monitoring policy. To do so at block the NFV security services agent performs the security monitoring on the control management and or data plane s . In some embodiments based on the security monitoring policy the monitoring may be a continuous monitoring with a provisioned telemetry monitoring or a specific monitoring policy delivery and activation based on manual or automated anomaly detection. Additionally or alternatively in some embodiments the monitoring may be triggered by an administrator based on criteria specified by the administrator.

At block the NFV security services agent collects the telemetry data. The collected telemetry data may include virtual and or physical network statistics network health monitoring information network packets e.g. entire flows of network packets random network packets etc. and or any other component configuration or network packet related data. In some embodiments the NFV security services agent may collect the telemetry data via a security monitoring collection agent e.g. the security monitoring collection agent of that is configured to collect the telemetry data at a protected local storage. At block the NFV security services agent packages the collected telemetry data a secure transport key and a unique identifier of the NFV security services agent for protected transmission. At block the NFV security services agent securely transmits the packaged telemetry data the secure transport key and the unique identifier via a secure communication channel e.g. the secure communication channel of to an NFV security monitoring analytics system e.g. the NFV security monitoring analytics system of that is configured to analyze the telemetry data for threats and or anomalies.

Referring now to an embodiment of a communication flow for monitoring the security of service function chaining SFC of the NFV security architecture e.g. at the illustrative service function chain VNFs of . As described previously a number of security monitoring components may be specifically configured or include additional and or alternative security monitoring components to monitor the security of service function chains executed within an NFV infrastructure e.g. the NFV infrastructure . For example SFC specific security monitoring components of the illustrative NFV security architecture of include the SFC security controller of the NFV security services controller the SFC security provider of the NFV security services provider of the VIM and a number of SFC agents distributed throughout the NFV infrastructure e.g. the SFC agent in various network monitoring and or processing components virtual and physical of the NFV infrastructure . As also described previously although the SFC agent is shown in the NFV security services agent it should be appreciated that each of the NFV security services agents distributed throughout the NFV infrastructure may include an SFC agent. Accordingly in some embodiments an SFC agent may reside in a VNF of a SFC e.g. one of the service function chain VNFs of the service function chain .

The illustrative communication flow includes the SFC agent the security monitoring collection agent the NFV security monitoring analytics system the SFC security controller and the SFC security provider . The illustrative communication flow additionally includes a number of data flows some of which may be executed separately or together depending on the embodiment. At data flow the SFC agent securely transmits an install activation and filtering policy and a unique identifier of the SFC agent to the security monitoring collection agent . The install activation and filtering policy includes various instructions and information pertaining to the installation activation and protection of the SFC agent as well as various instruction and information from which the security monitoring collection agent can use to filter pertinent network traffic. For example the security monitoring collection agent may filter the network traffic to only monitor the network traffic indicated by the install activation and filtering policy. Accordingly at data flow the security monitoring collection agent monitors and collects telemetry data based on the install activation and filtering policy.

At data flow the security monitoring collection agent packages the collected telemetry data for secure transmission to the NFV security monitoring analytics system . At data flow the security monitoring collection agent securely transmits the packaged telemetry data to the NFV security monitoring analytics system via a secure communication channel. Additionally the packaged telemetry data may also include a unique identifier of the SFC agent . At data flow the NFV security monitoring analytics system receives the packaged telemetry data and performs a security threat analysis on the received telemetry data. At data flow the NFV security monitoring analytics system securely transmits a remediation policy and a unique identifier of the NFV security monitoring analytics system via a secure communication channel upon detection of a security threat such as an attack or an anomaly. The remediation policy may include one or more remedial actions that may be taken in response to detection of the security threat such as to either address the threat or verify the anomaly. For example the remedial action s may include blocking certain network traffic streaming certain network traffic to a deep packet inspection DPI VNF instance rate limiting or throttling the network traffic etc.

At data flow the SFC security controller updates the present security policy based on the remediation policy and the one or more remedial actions contained therein. At data flow the SFC security controller securely transmits an updated security policy with an identifier unique to the instance of the SFC security controller to the SFC security provider via a secure communication channel. It should be appreciated that in some embodiments the SFC security controller may be in secure communication with more than one SFC security provider depending on the topology and distribution of the VIM . Accordingly which of the SFC security providers that the SFC security controller communicates with e.g. provide the security monitoring policy may be dependent on the security monitoring policy. For example a single SFC policy i.e. a security monitoring policy specific to SFC may be delivered to multiple SFC security providers at different points of presence POPs e.g. access points if a service function chain spans across multiple POPs. In other words each POP may be running a separate VIM and as such a separate SFC security provider .

At data flow the SFC security provider conveys the updated security policy across the VIM e.g. the VIM controller the other VIM components etc. . At data flow the SFC security provider securely transmits the updated security policy and an identifier unique to the instance of the SFC security provider to the SFC agent .

Illustrative examples of the technologies disclosed herein are provided below. An embodiment of the technologies may include any one or more and any combination of the examples described below.

Example 1 includes a network functions virtualization NFV security services controller of an NFV security architecture for managing security monitoring services of the NFV security architecture the NFV security controller comprising a security monitoring policy distribution module to transmit a security monitoring policy to one or more NFV security services agents distributed in a virtual network function VNF infrastructure of the NFV security architecture via an NFV security services provider of a virtual infrastructure manager VIM of the NFV security architecture wherein the security monitoring policy comprises a set of monitoring rules usable by the NFV security services agents to monitor telemetry data of the NFV security architecture and adjust configuration settings of the NFV security services agents and a security monitoring policy enforcement module to enforce the security monitoring policy transmitted to the one or more security monitoring components of the NFV security architecture.

Example 2 includes the subject matter of Example 1 and wherein to transmit the security monitoring policy further comprises to transmit an identifier wherein the identifier is unique to the NFV security services controller.

Example 3 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 1 and 2 and wherein to transmit the security monitoring policy comprises to transmit the security monitoring policy via a secure communication channel.

Example 4 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 1 3 and wherein to transmit the security monitoring policy via the secure communication channel comprises to transmit the security monitoring policy to the NVF security services provider via a secure communication channel dedicated to communication between the NFV security services controller and the NVF security services provider.

Example 5 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 1 4 and wherein to transmit the security monitoring policy via the secure communication channel comprises to establish a root of trust RoT to secure the communication channels using one or more secure keys.

Example 6 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 1 5 and wherein the security monitoring policy includes security monitoring component configuration information and telemetry data monitoring instructions and wherein to enforce the security monitoring policy comprises to i verify the one or more NFV security services agents are configured as a function of the security monitoring component configuration information and ii monitor the telemetry data as a function of the telemetry data monitoring instructions.

Example 7 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 1 6 and further including a secure communication module to receive configuration data from a plurality of service agents associated with a plurality of VNFs of a service function chain based on the security monitoring policy a protected transmission control module to secure a communication path between each of the plurality of virtual network functions of the service function chain and an NFV security services agent control module to verify a topology of the plurality of virtual network functions of the service function chain based on the received configuration data and the security monitoring policy.

Example 8 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 1 7 and wherein the NFV security services agent control module is further to i activate the plurality of virtual network functions of the service function chain ii instantiate an NFV security agent of the one or more NFV security services agents on at least one of the virtual network functions and iii activate the instantiated NFV security services agent on the at least one of the virtual network functions.

Example 9 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 1 8 and wherein the secure communication module is further configured to receive bootstrap information from the NFV security services agent wherein the bootstrap information defines characteristics of the initialization of the NFV security services agent and wherein to instantiate the NFV security services agent comprises to execute a bootstrap of a NFV security services agent to load the NFV security services agent on a computing node in network communication with the NFV security services controller.

Example 10 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 1 9 and wherein to receive the bootstrap information comprises to receive at least one of bootstrap configuration parameters usable by the bootstrap to instantiate the NFV security services agent personalization information for the NFV security services agent instance or license information of the NFV security services agent instance.

Example 11 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 1 10 and wherein to enforce the security monitoring policy comprises to enforce the security monitoring policy at the activated NFV security services agent.

Example 12 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 1 11 and wherein to enforce the security monitoring policy at the activated NFV security services agent comprises to verify the telemetry data monitored at the activated NFV security services agent is in accordance with the monitoring rules of the security monitoring policy.

Example 13 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 1 12 and wherein to verify the telemetry data comprises to verify that at least one of security statistics hardware configuration data software configuration data virtualization software data virtual component configuration data virtual resource data hardware health data hardware resource data or at least a portion of a network packet being monitored at the activated NFV security services agent is being monitored in accordance with the monitoring rules of the security monitoring policy.

Example 14 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 1 13 and wherein the secure communication module is further configured to receive a remediation policy from an NFV security monitoring analytics system communicatively coupled to the NFV security services controller in response to a determination by the NFV security monitoring analytics system that at least a portion of telemetry data transmitted by one of the one or more NFV security services agents was identified as a security threat.

Example 15 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 1 14 and further including a security monitoring policy management module to update the security monitoring policy based on the remediation policy wherein the security monitoring policy distribution module is further to transmit the updated security monitoring policy to the one or more security monitoring components of the NFV security architecture and wherein the security monitoring policy enforcement module is further to enforce the updated security monitoring policy transmitted to the one or more security monitoring components of the NFV security architecture.

Example 16 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 1 15 and further including a telemetry data auditing module to audit telemetry data stored at an audit database in network communication with the NFV security services controller wherein the telemetry data is timestamped by a secure clock corresponding to the NFV security services agent that transmitted the telemetry data to the audit database and wherein to audit the telemetry data comprises to i verify the telemetry data and ii sequence the telemetry data.

Example 17 includes a method for managing security monitoring services of a network functions virtualization NFV security architecture the method comprising transmitting by an NFV security services controller of the NFV security architecture a security monitoring policy to one or more NFV security services agents distributed in a virtual network function VNF infrastructure of the NFV security architecture via an NFV security services provider of a virtual infrastructure manager VIM of the NFV security architecture wherein the security monitoring policy comprises a set of monitoring rules usable by the NFV security services agents to monitor telemetry data of the NFV security architecture and adjust configuration settings of the NFV security services agents and enforcing by the NFV security services controller the security monitoring policy transmitted to the one or more security monitoring components of the NFV security architecture.

Example 18 includes the subject matter of Example 17 and wherein transmitting the security monitoring policy further includes transmitting an identifier wherein the identifier is unique to the NFV security services controller.

Example 19 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 17 and 18 and wherein transmitting the security monitoring policy comprises transmitting the security monitoring policy via a secure communication channel.

Example 20 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 17 19 and wherein transmitting the security monitoring policy via the secure communication channel comprises transmitting the security monitoring policy to the NVF security services provider via a secure communication channel dedicated to communication between the NFV security services controller and the NVF security services provider.

Example 21 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 17 20 and wherein transmitting the security monitoring policy via the secure communication channel comprises establishing a root of trust RoT to secure the communication channels using one or more secure keys.

Example 22 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 17 21 and wherein the security monitoring policy includes security monitoring component configuration information and telemetry data monitoring instructions and wherein enforcing the security monitoring policy comprises i verifying the one or more NFV security services agents are configured as a function of the security monitoring component configuration information and ii monitoring the telemetry data as a function of the telemetry data monitoring instructions.

Example 23 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 17 22 and further including receiving by the NFV security services controller configuration data from a plurality of service agents associated with a plurality of VNFs of a service function chain based on the security monitoring policy securing by the NFV security services controller a communication path between each of the plurality of virtual network functions of the service function chain and verifying by the NFV security services controller a topology of the plurality of virtual network functions of the service function chain based on the received configuration data and the security monitoring policy.

Example 24 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 17 23 and further including activating by the NFV security services controller the plurality of virtual network functions of the service function chain instantiating by the NFV security services controller an NFV security agent of the one or more NFV security services agents on at least one of the virtual network functions and activating by the NFV security services controller the instantiated NFV security services agent on the at least one of the virtual network functions.

Example 25 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 17 24 and further including receiving by the NFV security services controller bootstrap information from the NFV security services agent wherein the bootstrap information defines characteristics of the initialization of the NFV security services agent wherein instantiating the NFV security services agent comprises executing a bootstrap of a NFV security services agent to load the NFV security services agent on a computing node in network communication with the NFV security services controller.

Example 26 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 17 25 and wherein receiving the bootstrap information comprises receiving at least one of bootstrap configuration parameters usable by the bootstrap to instantiate the NFV security services agent personalization information for the NFV security services agent instance or license information of the NFV security services agent instance.

Example 27 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 17 26 and wherein enforcing the security monitoring policy comprises enforcing the security monitoring policy at the activated NFV security services agent.

Example 28 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 17 27 and wherein enforcing the security monitoring policy at the activated NFV security services agent comprises verifying the telemetry data monitored at the activated NFV security services agent is in accordance with the monitoring rules of the security monitoring policy.

Example 29 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 17 28 and wherein verifying the telemetry data comprises verifying that at least one of security statistics hardware configuration data software configuration data virtualization software data virtual component configuration data virtual resource data hardware health data hardware resource data or at least a portion of a network packet being monitored at the activated NFV security services agent is being monitored in accordance with the monitoring rules of the security monitoring policy.

Example 30 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 17 29 and further including receiving by the NFV security services controller a remediation policy from an NFV security monitoring analytics system communicatively coupled to the NFV security services controller in response to a determination by the NFV security monitoring analytics system that at least a portion of telemetry data transmitted by one of the one or more NFV security services agents was identified as a security threat.

Example 31 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 17 30 and further including updating by the NFV security services controller the security monitoring policy based on the remediation policy transmitting by the NFV security services controller the updated security monitoring policy to the one or more security monitoring components of the NFV security architecture and enforcing by the NFV security services controller the updated security monitoring policy transmitted to the one or more security monitoring components of the NFV security architecture.

Example 32 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 17 31 and further including auditing by the NFV security services controller telemetry data stored at an audit database in network communication with the NFV security services controller wherein the telemetry data is timestamped by a secure clock corresponding to the NFV security services agent that transmitted the telemetry data to the audit database and wherein auditing the telemetry data comprises i verifying the telemetry data and ii sequencing the telemetry data.

Example 33 includes a computing device comprising a processor and a memory having stored therein a plurality of instructions that when executed by the processor cause the computing device to perform the method of any of Examples 17 32.

Example 34 includes one or more machine readable storage media comprising a plurality of instructions stored thereon that in response to being executed result in a computing device performing the method of any of Examples 17 32.

Example 35 includes a computing device comprising means for performing the method of any of Examples 17 32.

Example 36 includes a network functions virtualization NFV security services agent of an NFV security architecture for managing security monitoring services of the NFV security architecture the NFV security services agent comprising a telemetry monitoring module to monitor telemetry data of a network processing component based on a security monitoring policy received from an NFV security services controller of the NFV security architecture wherein the NFV security services controller is in network communication with the NFV security services agent wherein the security monitoring policy comprises a set of monitoring rules usable by the NFV security services agents to monitor telemetry data of the NFV security architecture and configuration settings of the NFV security services agents a telemetry data packaging module to package at least a portion of the monitored telemetry data based on the security monitoring policy and a secure communication module to transmit the packaged telemetry data to an NFV security monitoring analytics system via a secure communication channel for analysis wherein the packaged telemetry data is transmitted based on the security monitoring policy.

Example 37 includes the subject matter of Example 36 and wherein to monitor the telemetry data comprises to monitor the telemetry data on at least one of a control plane a management plane or a data plane.

Example 38 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 36 and 37 and wherein to monitor the telemetry data comprises to monitor at least one of security statistic hardware configuration data software configuration data virtual component configuration data hardware health data or at least a portion of a network packet being monitored at the activated NFV security services agent is being monitored in accordance with the monitoring rules of the security monitoring policy.

Example 39 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 36 38 and wherein to monitor the at least a portion of the network packet comprises to monitor the at least a portion of the network packet based on an identifier that uniquely identifies at least one of a flow a device a node an administrative domain or a geography.

Example 40 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 36 39 and wherein to package the monitored telemetry data comprises to package at least one of security statistic hardware configuration data software configuration data virtual component configuration data hardware health data or at least a portion of a network packet.

Example 41 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 36 40 and wherein the telemetry data packaging module is further to package an identifier that uniquely identifies the NFV security services agent with the packaged telemetry data further and wherein the telemetry data distribution module is further to transmit the identifier with the packaged telemetry data.

Example 42 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 36 41 and further including a bootstrap execution module to run a bootstrap process to load the NFV security services agent on the network processing component of the NFV security architecture in response to a determination that the secure communication module received an instantiation request from the NFV security services controller wherein the secure communication module is further to transmit bootstrap information to the NFV security services controller wherein the bootstrap information comprises receiving at least one of bootstrap configuration parameters usable by the bootstrap to instantiate the NFV security services agent personalization information for the NFV security services agent instance or license information of the NFV security services agent instance.

Example 43 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 36 42 and wherein the secure communication module is further to i receive an activation signal from the NFV security services controller and ii establish a management session with an NFV manager of the NFV security architecture and wherein the NFV manager is communicatively coupled with the NFV security services agent.

Example 44 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 36 43 and wherein the secure communication module is further to receive the security monitoring policy from the NFV security services controller.

Example 45 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 36 44 and wherein to receive the security monitoring policy from the NFV security services controller comprises to receive the security monitoring policy from an NFV security services provider of a virtualization interface manager communicatively coupled to the NFV security services agent and the NFV security services controller.

Example 46 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 36 45 and wherein the telemetry data monitoring module is further to map network traffic for monitoring based on the monitoring rules of security monitoring policy.

Example 47 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 36 46 and wherein to transmit the bootstrap information to the NFV security services controller comprises to transmit the bootstrap information to an NFV security services provider of a virtualization interface manager communicatively coupled to the NFV security services agent and the NFV security services controller.

Example 48 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 36 47 and wherein to run the bootstrap process comprises to run the bootstrap process on one of a hypervisor presently running on a computing node of the NFV security architecture a platform of the computing node or a virtual network function presently running on the computing node.

Example 49 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 36 48 and wherein to verify the telemetry data comprises to verify that at least one of security statistics hardware configuration data software configuration data virtual component configuration data hardware health data or at least a portion of a network packet being monitored at the activated NFV security services agent is being monitored in accordance with the monitoring rules of the security monitoring policy.

Example 50 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 36 49 and wherein the secure communication module is further to receive an updated security monitoring policy from the NFV security services controller wherein the updated security monitoring policy includes a remedial action to be performed by the NFV security services agent to address a detected security threat and wherein the telemetry data monitoring module is further to perform the remedial action to address the detected security threat.

Example 51 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 36 50 and wherein the telemetry data packaging module is further to apply a timestamp to the packaged telemetry data and wherein the secure communication module is further to transmit the timestamp with the packaged telemetry data.

Example 52 includes a method for performing security monitoring services of a network functions virtualization NFV security architecture the method comprising monitoring by a NFV security services agent telemetry data of a network processing component based on a security monitoring policy received from an NFV security services controller of the NFV security architecture wherein the NFV security services controller is in network communication with the NFV security services agent wherein the security monitoring policy comprises a set of monitoring rules usable by the NFV security services agents to monitor telemetry data of the NFV security architecture and configuration settings of the NFV security services agents packaging by the NFV security services agent at least a portion of the monitored telemetry data based on the security monitoring policy and transmitting by the NFV security services agent the packaged telemetry data to an NFV security monitoring analytics system via a secure communication channel for analysis wherein the packaged telemetry data is transmitted based on the security monitoring policy.

Example 53 includes the subject matter of Example 52 and wherein monitoring the telemetry data comprises monitoring the telemetry data on at least one of a control plane a management plane or a data plane.

Example 54 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 52 and 53 and wherein monitoring the telemetry data comprises monitoring at least one of security statistic hardware configuration data software configuration data virtual component configuration data hardware health data or at least a portion of a network packet being monitored at the activated NFV security services agent is being monitored in accordance with the monitoring rules of the security monitoring policy.

Example 55 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 52 54 and wherein monitoring the at least a portion of the network packet comprises monitoring the at least a portion of the network packet based on an identifier that uniquely identifies at least one of a flow a device a node an administrative domain or a geography.

Example 56 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 52 55 and wherein packaging the monitored telemetry data comprises packaging at least one of security statistic hardware configuration data software configuration data virtual component configuration data hardware health data or at least a portion of a network packet.

Example 57 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 52 56 and further including packaging an identifier that uniquely identifies the NFV security services agent with the packaged telemetry data further wherein transmitting the packaged telemetry data further comprises transmitting the identifier.

Example 58 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 52 57 and further including receiving by the NFV security services agent an instantiation request from the NFV security services controller running by the NFV security services agent a bootstrap process to load the NFV security services agent on the network processing component of the NFV security architecture and transmitting by the NFV security services agent bootstrap information to the NFV security services controller wherein the bootstrap information comprises receiving at least one of bootstrap configuration parameters usable by the bootstrap to instantiate the NFV security services agent personalization information for the NFV security services agent instance or license information of the NFV security services agent instance.

Example 59 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 52 58 and further including receiving by the NFV security services agent an activation signal from the NFV security services controller and establishing by the NFV security services agent a management session with an NFV manager of the NFV security architecture wherein the NFV manager is communicatively coupled with the NFV security services agent.

Example 60 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 52 59 and further including receiving by the NFV security services agent the security monitoring policy from the NFV security services controller.

Example 61 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 52 60 and wherein receiving the security monitoring policy from the NFV security services controller comprises receiving the security monitoring policy from an NFV security services provider of a virtualization interface manager communicatively coupled to the NFV security services agent and the NFV security services controller.

Example 62 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 52 61 and further including mapping by the NFV security services agent network traffic for monitoring based on the monitoring rules of security monitoring policy.

Example 63 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 52 62 and wherein transmitting the bootstrap information to the NFV security services controller comprises transmitting the bootstrap information to an NFV security services provider of a virtualization interface manager communicatively coupled to the NFV security services agent and the NFV security services controller.

Example 64 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 52 63 and wherein running the bootstrap process comprises running the bootstrap process on one of a hypervisor presently running on a computing node of the NFV security architecture a platform of the computing node or a virtual network function presently running on the computing node.

Example 65 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 52 64 and wherein verifying the telemetry data comprises verifying that at least one of security statistics hardware configuration data software configuration data virtual component configuration data hardware health data or at least a portion of a network packet being monitored at the activated NFV security services agent is being monitored in accordance with the monitoring rules of the security monitoring policy.

Example 66 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 52 65 and further including receiving by the NFV security services agent an updated security monitoring policy from the NFV security services controller wherein the updated security monitoring policy includes a remedial action to be performed by the NFV security services agent to address a detected security threat and performing by the NFV security services agent the remedial action to address the detected security threat.

Example 67 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 52 66 and further including applying a timestamp to the packaged telemetry data wherein transmitting the packaged telemetry data further comprises transmitting the timestamp.

Example 68 includes a computing device comprising a processor and a memory having stored therein a plurality of instructions that when executed by the processor cause the computing device to perform the method of any of Examples 52 67.

Example 69 includes one or more machine readable storage media comprising a plurality of instructions stored thereon that in response to being executed result in a computing device performing the method of any of Examples 52 67.

Example 70 includes a computing device comprising means for performing the method of any of Examples 52 67.

