---

title: Rhythmic mosaic generation methods, apparatuses and media
abstract: A request to generate templates for a template set may be received. A template set member from the template set may be selected and the template set member's dimensions may be determined based on an initial cut. A desired number of image tiles for the template set member may be identified, and templates having the desired number of image tiles may be generated for the template set member based on logical rules.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09558577&OS=09558577&RS=09558577
owner: 
number: 09558577
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20150417
---
This patent application is a continuation in part of and claims the benefit of priority to International Patent Application No. PCT US13 65438 filed Oct. 17 2013 which is turn claims the benefit of priority to U.S. provisional patent application No. 61 716 185 filed Oct. 19 2012.

This patent application claims the benefit of priority to and is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 625 288 filed Sep. 24 2012 which in turn is a continuation of and claims the benefit of priority to International Patent Application No. PCT US2012 55261 filed Sep. 14 2012 and claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 671 405 filed Jul. 13 2012.

This patent application is a continuation in part of and claims the benefit of priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 198 301 filed Mar. 5 2014 which in turn claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 774 551 filed Mar. 7 2013.

This patent application is a continuation in part of and claims the benefit of priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 198 301 filed Mar. 5 2014 which in turn claims the benefit of priority to and is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 29 412 733 filed Feb. 7 2012 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 29 412 735 filed Feb. 7 2012 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 29 412 736 filed Feb. 7 2012 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 29 412 738 filed Feb. 7 2012 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 29 412 739 filed Feb. 7 2012. The present application is also related to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 693 358 filed Aug. 27 2012.

This patent application is a continuation in part of and claims the benefit of priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 29 433 980 filed Oct. 8 2012 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 29 433 983 filed Oct. 8 2012 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 29 433 999 filed Oct. 8 2012 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 29 434 010 filed Oct. 9 2012 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 29 434 016 filed Oct. 9 2012 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 29 434 024 filed Oct. 9 2012 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 29 434 029 filed Oct. 9 2012 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 29 434 041 filed Oct. 9 2012 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 29 434 057 filed Oct. 9 2012 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 29 434 434 filed Oct. 12 2012 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 29 434 599 filed Oct. 15 2012 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 29 434 877 filed Oct. 17 2012 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 29 434 885 filed Oct. 17 2012 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 29 434 887 filed Oct. 17 2012 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 29 434 888 filed Oct. 17 2012 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 29 434 892 filed Oct. 17 2012 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 29 434 894 filed Oct. 17 2012 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 29 434 895 filed Oct. 17 2012.

This disclosure descrives RHYTHMIC MOSAIC GENERATION METHODS APPARATUSES AND MEDIA hereinafter RMG . A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright and or mask work protection. The copyright and or mask work owners have no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserve all copyright and mask work rights whatsoever.

The content of each of the aforementioned patent applications is expressly incorporated by reference in its entirety for any purpose whatsoever.

With the advent of digital cameras and their inclusion in smart phones tablets laptops and other portable electronic devices it has become easier than ever for people to take photos. Some people choose to print out their digital photos while others choose to view their digital photos on screens of their portable electronic devices computer monitors or big screen TVs.

The RMG facilitates generation of templates for use in aesthetically balanced rhythmic image mosaics. A mosaic may be a group of images positioned in image tiles of one or more templates e.g. in accordance with an optimal template configuration and or aesthetic balance . The templates may be tailored to deliver a pleasing mobile photo browsing experience. In one embodiment templates in a mosaic may be configured to create an inclination for a user to scroll the mosaic from a first direction to a second direction e.g. from left to right from top to bottom . In another embodiment templates in a mosaic may be configured to create a rhythmic flow of narrow and wide templates that accommodates the right balance of portrait and landscape pictures maintains visual interest in a systematic way and ensures consistent and balanced sizing of pictures within and between the templates.

The present disclosure is directed in some aspects to a processor implemented method to facilitate template generation. An illustrative method includes receiving via a processor a request to generate templates for a template set selecting via the processor a template set member from the template set determining via the processor dimensions of the template set member based on an initial cut identifying via the processor a desired number of image tiles for the template set member and generating via the processor templates having the desired number of image tiles for the template set member based on logical rules.

In accordance with further aspects generating via the processor templates having the desired number of image tiles can further include a selecting an image tile of a template that is being generated b confirming that the image tile may be subdivided c determining a tile type associated with the image tile d subdividing the image tile into a plurality of tiles in accordance with the tile type and the initial cut and e repeating a through d until the template has the desired number of image tiles. The tile type can be one of Horizontal Square and Vertical. The selected image tile can be randomly selected can be the biggest or the smallest image tile of the template can be the topmost or the bottommost image tile of the template and or the like. Confirming that the image tile may be subdivided can include verifying that the template would have a focal picture after the image tile is subdivided can include verifying that the image tile s aspect ratio substantially corresponds to one of allowed aspect ratios can include verifying that the image tile s size is at least a minimum specified size and or the like. Subdividing the image tile into a plurality of tiles can include subdividing the image tile using at least one horizontal cut can include subdividing the image tile using at least one vertical cut can include subdividing the image tile using at least one vertical cut and at least one horizontal cut can include subdividing the image tile in accordance with emphasis specification can include subdividing the image tile in such a way as to avoid creating a duplicate template and or the like.

In accordance with a further aspect the template set can comprise a wide template set member and a narrow template set member and the initial cut can be such that the width of the wide template set member substantially corresponds to 62 of the template set width and the width of the narrow template set member substantially corresponds to 38 of the template set width.

In accordance with a further aspect the method can include generating an image mosaic by repeatedly using the generated templates in accordance with the template set setup. Dimensions of the template set can be such that the template set is larger than the screen size of a client device on which the image mosaic is to be viewed by a predetermined amount.

In accordance with a further aspect the desired number of image tiles for the template set member can be a plurality of desired numbers between a minimum number and a maximum number.

The disclosure further provides a template generating apparatus having a memory a processor in communication with the memory and configured to issue a plurality of processing instructions stored in the memory wherein the processor issues instructions to receive a request to generate templates for a template set select a template set member from the template set determine dimensions of the template set member based on an initial cut identify a desired number of image tiles for the template set member and generate templates having the desired number of image tiles for the template set member based on logical rules.

In accordance with further aspects the processor issuable instructions to generate templates having the desired number of image tiles can further include instructions to a select an image tile of a template that is being generated b confirm that the image tile may be subdivided c determine a tile type associated with the image tile d subdivide the image tile into a plurality of tiles in accordance with the tile type and the initial cut and e repeat a through d until the template has the desired number of image tiles. The tile type can be one of Horizontal Square and Vertical. The selected image tile can be randomly selected can be the biggest or the smallest image tile of the template can be the topmost or the bottommost image tile of the template and or the like. The processor issuable instructions to confirm that the image tile may be subdivided can include instructions to verify that the template would have a focal picture after the image tile is subdivided can include instructions to verify that the image tile s aspect ratio substantially corresponds to one of allowed aspect ratios can include instructions to verify that the image tile s size is at least a minimum specified size and or the like. The processor issuable instructions to subdivide the image tile into a plurality of tiles can include instructions to subdivide the image tile using at least one horizontal cut can include instructions to subdivide the image tile using at least one vertical cut can include instructions to subdivide the image tile using at least one vertical cut and at least one horizontal cut can include instructions to subdivide the image tile in accordance with emphasis specification can include instructions to subdivide the image tile in such a way as to avoid creating a duplicate template and or the like.

In accordance with a further aspect the processor can issue instructions to generate an image mosaic by repeatedly using the generated templates in accordance with the template set setup. Dimensions of the template set can be such that the template set is larger than the screen size of a client device on which the image mosaic is to be viewed by a predetermined amount.

The disclosure further provides a template generating processor readable non transitory physical medium storing processor issuable instructions to receive a request to generate templates for a template set select a template set member from the template set determine dimensions of the template set member based on an initial cut identify a desired number of image tiles for the template set member and generate templates having the desired number of image tiles for the template set member based on logical rules.

In accordance with further aspects instructions stored on the template generating processor readable non transitory physical medium to generate templates having the desired number of image tiles can further include instructions to a select an image tile of a template that is being generated b confirm that the image tile may be subdivided c determine a tile type associated with the image tile d subdivide the image tile into a plurality of tiles in accordance with the tile type and the initial cut and e repeat a through d until the template has the desired number of image tiles. The tile type can be one of Horizontal Square and Vertical. The selected image tile can be randomly selected can be the biggest or the smallest image tile of the template can be the topmost or the bottommost image tile of the template and or the like. Instructions stored on the template generating processor readable non transitory physical medium to confirm that the image tile may be subdivided can include instructions to verify that the template would have a focal picture after the image tile is subdivided can include instructions to verify that the image tile s aspect ratio substantially corresponds to one of allowed aspect ratios can include instructions to verify that the image tile s size is at least a minimum specified size and or the like. Instructions stored on the template generating processor readable non transitory physical medium to subdivide the image tile into a plurality of tiles can include instructions to subdivide the image tile using at least one horizontal cut can include instructions to subdivide the image tile using at least one vertical cut can include instructions to subdivide the image tile using at least one vertical cut and at least one horizontal cut can include instructions to subdivide the image tile in accordance with emphasis specification can include instructions to subdivide the image tile in such a way as to avoid creating a duplicate template and or the like.

In accordance with a further aspect the template generating processor readable non transitory physical medium can include instructions to generate an image mosaic by repeatedly using the generated templates in accordance with the template set setup. Dimensions of the template set can be such that the template set is larger than the screen size of a client device on which the image mosaic is to be viewed by a predetermined amount.

A rhythmic template set may comprise one or more e.g. two template types e.g. a wide template type followed by a narrow template type . In one embodiment the dimensions e.g. width and or height of the rectangle formed by the rhythmic template set of the rhythmic template set may be specified such that the rhythmic template set is larger than the screen size of a client device on which the mosaic may be viewed by a predetermined amount. In one implementation the width or height of the rhythmic template set may be between 0 and 5 larger than the width or height of the client s screen. In another implementation the width or height of the rhythmic template set may be between 5 and 10 larger than the width or height of the client s screen. In yet another implementation the width or height of the rhythmic template set may be between 10 and 15 larger than the width or height of the client s screen. Making the width or height of the rhythmic template set larger than the client s screen width may give a viewer of a mosaic a motivation to scroll the mosaic e.g. from left to right from top to bottom . For example if the viewer will view the mosaic on an iPad with a 4 3 screen aspect ratio the rhythmic template set may form a rectangle whose dimensions substantially correspond to dimensions of a Golden Rectangle i.e. having a width to height ratio of approximately 1.618 to 1 and whose width exceeds the width of the iPad s screen by approximately 7 . Throughout this disclosure an aspect ratio or a dimension substantially corresponds if it corresponds to within a specified percentage. In one implementation this percentage may be between 0 and 5 . In another implementation this percentage may be between 5 and 10 . In yet another implementation this percentage may be between 10 and 15 .

Members of the rhythmic template set may be determined at . In one embodiment members of the rhythmic template set may comprise a wide template type and a narrow template type e.g. a wide rectangular template and a narrow rectangular template . For example members of the rhythmic template set may determined based on data in the template sets data store using one or more SQL queries substantially in the following form 

In one implementation a mosaic generated in accordance with the rhythmic template set setup may be restricted to using template set members in the order specified by the rhythmic template set e.g. a wide template followed by a narrow template . In another implementation a mosaic generated in accordance with the rhythmic template set setup may use template set members in any desired order e.g. a wide template followed by a narrow template or a narrow template followed by a wide template . In other embodiments different types and or numbers of members may be used.

The dimensions of the rhythmic template set members may be determined at . In one embodiment the dimensions of the members may be determined based on an initial cut e.g. specified by the user determined based on data stored in a data store . In one implementation the initial cut may be specified as percentages of the rhythmic template set width e.g. for a horizontally oriented rhythmic template set or rhythmic template set height e.g. for a vertically oriented rhythmic template set allotted to each rhythmic template set member. Such percentages may be specified using numbers e.g. 62 and 38 using a marker drawn by the user utilizing the GUI of the RMG e.g. a vertical line that divides a horizontally oriented rectangular rhythmic template set into two template set members and or the like. For example an initial vertical cut of a horizontally oriented rectangular rhythmic template set comprising a wide rectangular template set member followed by a narrow rectangular template set member may be made such that the width of the wide member substantially corresponds to 62 of the overall width and the width of the narrow member substantially corresponds to 38 of the overall width. In the case of a horizontally oriented rectangular template set whose dimensions substantially correspond to dimensions of a Golden Rectangle such a division would create a wide template set member whose dimensions substantially correspond to a square and a narrow template set member whose dimensions substantially correspond to a vertically oriented Golden Rectangle. Similarly an initial horizontal cut may be made in an analogous manner in the case of a vertically oriented rectangular rhythmic template set comprising a wide rectangular template set member followed by a narrow rectangular template set member.

A determination may be made at whether there remain template set members for which templates should be generated. Templates may be generated for each template set member e.g. for a wide member and for a narrow member . A template may be one or more image tiles arranged in a configuration e.g. a template may comprise a single rectangular image tile two identically sized horizontally oriented rectangular image tiles one on top of another and or the like .

If there remain template set members for which templates should be generated the next template set member to be processed may be selected at . A determination may be made at whether templates have been generated for the selected template set member for each desired number of image tiles. In one embodiment a minimum and or maximum number of image tiles may be desired e.g. for each template set member for the template set . For example it may be desired for the wide member to have up to three image tiles and for the narrow member to have up to four image tiles. Accordingly templates having between one and three image tiles may be generated for the wide member and templates having between one and four image tiles may be generated for the narrow member.

If templates have not been generated for each desired number of image tiles the next desired number of image tiles may be identified at e.g. using a C for loop to iterate through the desired numbers of tiles . Templates with the identified number of images tiles may be generated at in accordance with logic rules. For example the logic rules may be stored in the logic rules data store . See for additional details regarding how the templates are generated. For example template data may be stored in the templates data store

If templates have been generated for each desired number of image tiles a determination may be made whether there remain template set members for which templates should be generated at . If templates have been generated for each template set member the RMG may facilitate template use in an image mosaic. See for examples of wide and narrow templates that may have been generated by the RMG. In one embodiment the RMG may generate an aesthetically balanced rhythmic image mosaic by repeatedly using the generated templates in accordance with the rhythmic template set setup e.g. repeatedly using sets comprising a wide template and a narrow template . For example the RMG may repeatedly use sets comprising a wide template followed by a narrow template. In another example the RMG may repeatedly use sets comprising a wide template and a narrow template in any order e.g. wide template narrow template narrow template wide template . In another embodiment the RMG may facilitate mosaic editing by a user by facilitating user replacement of one template generated for a set member with another template generated for the set member. For example the user may replace one wide template with another wide template. In another example the user may flip the order of template set members in any template set instance in a mosaic. In yet another embodiment utilizing the rhythmic template set setup to create an image mosaic may facilitate printing of the image mosaic by ensuring a consistent image size e.g. the size of the template set for each printed page.

If more templates having the desired number of image tiles should be generated a new template may be created and a determination may be made at whether the template has the desired number of image tiles. For example a newly created template may have one initial image tile having dimensions of the entire template. In another example a template in which an image tile has been subdivided may have two or more image tiles. If the template already has the desired number of image tiles the template may be stored in the templates data store using one or more SQL queries substantially in the following form 

If the template does not yet have the desired number of image tiles an image tile may be selected for subdivision at . The image tile selected for subdivision may be determined in various ways. In one embodiment an image tile may be selected randomly. In another embodiment the biggest e.g. based on width based on height based on area or the smallest image tile may be selected. In yet another embodiment the topmost or the bottommost image tile may be selected. In yet another embodiment the leftmost or the rightmost image tile may be selected.

A determination may be made at whether the selected image tile may be subdivided. For example logic rules that determine whether the selected image tile may be subdivided may be retrieved from the logic rules data store . In one embodiment an image tile may not be subdivided if it is less than a minimum size e.g. based on width based on height based on area . For example the minimum size may be specified as a number of pixels as a percentage of the screen size as an aspect ratio and or the like. In another embodiment an image tile may not be subdivided if the current template set member should have a focal picture e.g. a picture whose area is at least 30 of the overall template set area and subdividing the image tile would violate this condition. For example the user may specify that the current template set member should have at least one focal picture. In yet another embodiment an image tile may not be subdivided unless its aspect ratio substantially corresponds to one of the allowed aspect ratios. In one implementation allowed aspect ratios may include those of a square i.e. aspect ratio of 1 to 1 a Golden Rectangle i.e. aspect ratio of approximately 1.618 to 1 and a Landscape Rectangle i.e. aspect ratio of 2 to 1 . If the selected image tile may not be subdivided a different image tile may be selected at .

If the selected image tile may be subdivided a determination may be made at regarding the type of the image tile and the image tile may be subdivided using one or more cuts appropriate for the image tile s type. For example logic rules that determine available types of image tiles and or cuts appropriate for each type of image tile may be retrieved from the logic rules data store . The dividing cuts e.g. including the choice of where to make the initial cut may be made in accordance with a harmonizing principle to ensure that the corners of adjacent pictures meet at strict proportions along the edge of the pictures. In one embodiment image tile types may include Horizontal i.e. an image tile whose dimensions substantially correspond to those of a horizontally oriented rectangle Square i.e. an image tile whose dimensions substantially correspond to those of a square and Vertical i.e. an image tile whose dimensions substantially correspond to those of a vertically oriented rectangle . The image tile s type may be determined by analyzing the dimensions of the image tile. For example if the dimensions of the image tile substantially correspond to those of a square the image tile s type may be set as Square otherwise the image tile s type may be set as Horizontal e.g. if the image tile s width exceeds its height or Vertical e.g. if the image tile s height exceeds its width . While the cuts described below may be used with template set members of a horizontally oriented rectangular rhythmic template set having an initial vertical cut analogous cuts may be used with template set members of a vertically oriented rectangular rhythmic template set having an initial horizontal cut.

If the selected image tile s type is Horizontal the image tile may be subdivided at using a vertical cut based on the initial cut. Accordingly if the initial cut was made such that the width of the wide template set member substantially corresponds to 62 of the template set s overall width and the width of the narrow template set member substantially corresponds to 38 of the template set s overall width the image tile may be subdivided into two image tiles whose widths substantially correspond to 62 and 38 of the image tile s overall width. In one implementation the determination as to which of the new image tiles should be wide and which should be narrow may be made so as to correspond with the initial cut. For example if the wide template set member was on the left the new wide image should be on the left. In another implementation the determination as to which of the new image tiles should be wide and which should be narrow may be made randomly. In yet another implementation the determination as to which of the new image tiles should be wide and which should be narrow may be made based on emphasis specification. For example if the user specifies that there should be emphasis on the right e.g. for the current template set member the image tile may be subdivided such that the narrow image tile is on the right. Once the selected image tile is subdivided a determination may be made at whether the template has the desired number of image tiles.

If the selected image tile s type is Square a determination may be made at regarding which type of cut to make. In one embodiment the determination as to which type of cut to make may be made randomly. In another embodiment the determination as to which type of cut to make may be made so as to avoid repetition e.g. so as to avoid creating a duplicate template . In one embodiment the image tile may be subdivided at using a horizontal cut in the middle. Accordingly the image tile may be subdivided into two rectangles whose dimensions substantially correspond to those of a Landscape Rectangle. In another embodiment the image tile may be subdivided at using a vertical cut based on the initial cut e.g. in a similar manner as described with regard to and the narrower of the two resulting rectangles may be further subdivided at using a horizontal cut in the middle. The image tile may not be subdivided in this way if the number of resulting image tiles would exceed the desired number of image tiles for the template. Once the selected image tile is subdivided a determination may be made at whether the template has the desired number of image tiles.

If the selected image tile s type is Vertical a determination may be made at regarding which type of cut to make. In one embodiment the determination as to which type of cut to make may be made randomly. In another embodiment the determination as to which type of cut to make may be made so as to avoid repetition e.g. so as to avoid creating a duplicate template . The image tile may be subdivided at using a horizontal cut based on the initial cut. In one embodiment if the initial cut was made such that the width of the wide template set member substantially corresponds to 62 of the template set s overall width and the width of the narrow template set member substantially corresponds to 38 of the template set s overall width the image tile may be subdivided into two image tiles whose heights substantially correspond to 62 and 38 of the image tile s overall height. In another embodiment the image tile may be subdivided such that the aspect ratio of the new narrow image tile substantially corresponds to the aspect ratios of the two horizontal rectangles that may be created at . In one implementation the determination as to which of the new image tiles should be wide and which should be narrow may be made randomly. In another implementation the determination as to which of the new image tiles should be wide and which should be narrow may be made based on emphasis specification. For example if the user specifies that there should be emphasis at the top e.g. for the current template set member the image tile may be subdivided such that the narrow image tile is at the top. Alternatively the image tile may be subdivided at using two horizontal cuts based on the initial cut. The image tile may not be subdivided in this way if the number of resulting image tiles would exceed the desired number of image tiles for the template. In one embodiment if the initial cut was made such that the width of the wide template set member substantially corresponds to 62 of the template set s overall width and the width of the narrow template set member substantially corresponds to 38 of the template set s overall width the image tile may be subdivided into three image tiles such that the heights of each of the two image tiles at the top and bottom substantially correspond to 38 of the image tile s overall height. In another embodiment the image tile may be subdivided such that the aspect ratios of the two new image tiles at the top and bottom substantially correspond to the aspect ratios of the two horizontal rectangles that may be created at . For example if a rectangle whose dimensions substantially correspond to a vertically oriented Golden Rectangle is subdivided in such a way the dimensions of the two rectangles at the top and bottom would substantially correspond to those of a Landscape Rectangle and the dimensions of the rectangle in the middle would substantially correspond to those of a Golden Rectangle. Once the selected image tile is subdivided a determination may be made at whether the template has the desired number of image tiles.

If the template has the desired number of image tiles a determination may be made at whether there remain templates to be generated having the desired number of image tiles. If no further templates should be generated template generation ends.

The RMG client may send a template generation request to a RMG server . For example the template generation request may include data such as the user s unique identifier parameters specified by the user and or the like. In one implementation the template generation request may be in XML format substantially in the following form 

The RMG server may analyze logic rules data and or templates data to facilitate execution of the template generation request. For example analyzed logic rules data may include logic rules specifications user provided parameters and or the like. For example analyzed templates data may include template shape template orientation template set members generated templates and or the like.

The RMG server may send a template generation response to the RMG client. For example the template generation response may include data such as a confirmation that templates have been generated a set of templates generated in response to the template generation request and or the like. In one implementation the template generation response may be in XML format substantially in the following form 

The RMG client may display a template generation output to the user. For example the RMG client may display the confirmation e.g. template generation status is success the generated templates e.g. the RMG may facilitate using the generated templates to create image mosaics and or the like.

Template A is a wide template with a single image tile. This image tile s type would be Square. Template B may be created by subdividing a Square image tile as shown in template A using a horizontal cut in the middle as discussed with regard to . Template C may be created by subdividing the lower Horizontal image tile as shown in template B using a vertical cut as discussed with regard to . Template D may be created by subdividing the upper Horizontal image tile as shown in template B using a vertical cut as discussed with regard to . Template E may be created by subdividing a Square image tile as shown in template A using a vertical cut such that the narrower of the two resulting rectangles is on the right and by subdividing the narrower rectangle using a horizontal cut as discussed with regard to . Template F may be created by subdividing a Square image tile as shown in template A using a vertical cut such that the narrower of the two resulting rectangles is on the left and by subdividing the narrower rectangle using a horizontal cut as discussed with regard to .

Template A is a narrow template with a single image tile. This image tile s type would be Vertical. Template B may be created by subdividing a Vertical image tile as shown in template A using a horizontal cut such that the narrower of the two resulting rectangles is on the top as discussed with regard to . Template C may be created by subdividing a Vertical image tile as shown in template A using a horizontal cut such that the narrower of the two resulting rectangles is on the bottom as discussed with regard to . Template D may be created by subdividing a Vertical image tile as shown in template A using two horizontal cuts as discussed with regard to . Template E may be created by subdividing a Horizontal image tile at the top as shown in template D using a vertical cut as discussed with regard to .

Using the generated templates the RMG may generate an aesthetically balanced rhythmic image mosaic. For example the RMG may generate an aesthetically balanced rhythmic image mosaic by repeatedly using sets comprising one of the wide templates A F followed by one of the narrow templates A E.

The RMG coordinator includes a processor that executes program instructions e.g. RMG program instructions . In various embodiments the processor may be a general purpose microprocessor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a dedicated microprocessor e.g. a graphics processing unit GPU a physics processing unit PPU a digital signal processor DSP a network processor and or the like an external processor a plurality of processors e.g. working in parallel distributed and or the like a microcontroller e.g. for an embedded system and or the like. The processor may be implemented using integrated circuits ICs application specific integrated circuits ASICs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs and or the like. In various implementations the processor may comprise one or more cores may include embedded elements e.g. a coprocessor such as a math coprocessor a cryptographic coprocessor a physics coprocessor and or the like registers cache memory software may be synchronous e.g. using a clock signal or asynchronous e.g. without a central clock and or the like. For example the processor may be an AMD FX processor an AMD Opteron processor an AMD Geode LX processor an Intel Core i7 processor an Intel Xeon processor an Intel Atom processor an ARM Cortex processor an IBM PowerPC processor and or the like.

The processor may be connected to system memory via a system bus . The system bus may interconnect these and or other elements of the RMG coordinator via electrical electronic optical wireless and or the like communication links e.g. the system bus may be integrated into a motherboard that interconnects RMG coordinator elements and provides power from a power supply . In various embodiments the system bus may comprise one or more control buses address buses data buses memory buses peripheral buses and or the like. In various implementations the system bus may be a parallel bus a serial bus a daisy chain design a hub design and or the like. For example the system bus may comprise a front side bus a back side bus AMD s HyperTransport Intel s QuickPath Interconnect a peripheral component interconnect PCI bus an accelerated graphics port AGP bus a PCI Express bus a low pin count LPC bus a universal serial bus USB and or the like. The system memory in various embodiments may comprise registers cache memory e.g. level one level two level three read only memory ROM e.g. BIOS flash memory random access memory RAM e.g. static RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM error correcting code ECC memory and or the like. The system memory may be discreet external embedded integrated into a CPU and or the like. The processor may access read from write to store in erase modify and or the like the system memory in accordance with program instructions e.g. RMG program instructions executed by the processor. The system memory may facilitate accessing storing retrieving modifying deleting and or the like data e.g. RMG data by the processor.

In various embodiments input output devices may be connected to the processor and or to the system memory and or to one another via the system bus.

In some embodiments the input output devices may include one or more graphics devices . The processor may make use of the one or more graphic devices in accordance with program instructions e.g. RMG program instructions executed by the processor. In one implementation a graphics device may be a video card that may obtain e.g. via a connected video camera process e.g. render a frame output e.g. via a connected monitor television and or the like and or the like graphical e.g. multimedia video image text data e.g. RMG data . A video card may be connected to the system bus via an interface such as PCI AGP PCI Express USB PC Card ExpressCard and or the like. A video card may use one or more graphics processing units GPUs for example by utilizing AMD s CrossFireX and or NVIDIA s SLI technologies. A video card may be connected via an interface e.g. video graphics array VGA digital video interface DVI Mini DVI Micro DVI high definition multimedia interface HDMI DisplayPort Thunderbolt composite video S Video component video and or the like to one or more displays e.g. cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display LCD touchscreen and or the like that display graphics. For example a video card may be an AMD Radeon HD 6990 an ATI Mobility Radeon HD 5870 an AMD FirePro V9800P an AMD Radeon E6760 MXM V3.0 Module an NVIDIA GeForce GTX 590 an NVIDIA GeForce GTX 580M an Intel HD Graphics 3000 and or the like. In another implementation a graphics device may be a video capture board that may obtain e.g. via coaxial cable process e.g. overlay with other graphical data capture convert e.g. between different formats such as MPEG2 to H.264 and or the like graphical data. A video capture board may be and or include a TV tuner may be compatible with a variety of broadcast signals e.g. NTSC PAL ATSC QAM may be a part of a video card and or the like. For example a video capture board may be an ATI All in Wonder HD a Hauppauge ImpactVBR 01381 a Hauppauge WinTV HVR 2250 a Hauppauge Colossus 01414 and or the like. A graphics device may be discreet external embedded integrated into a CPU and or the like. A graphics device may operate in combination with other graphics devices e.g. in parallel to provide improved capabilities data throughput color depth and or the like.

In some embodiments the input output devices may include one or more audio devices . The processor may make use of the one or more audio devices in accordance with program instructions e.g. RMG program instructions executed by the processor. In one implementation an audio device may be a sound card that may obtain e.g. via a connected microphone process output e.g. via connected speakers and or the like audio data e.g. RMG data . A sound card may be connected to the system bus via an interface such as PCI PCI Express USB PC Card ExpressCard and or the like. A sound card may be connected via an interface e.g. tip sleeve TS tip ring sleeve TRS RCA TOSLINK optical to one or more amplifiers speakers e.g. mono stereo surround sound subwoofers digital musical instruments and or the like. For example a sound card may be an Intel AC 97 integrated codec chip an Intel HD Audio integrated codec chip a Creative Sound Blaster X Fi Titanium HD a Creative Sound Blaster X Fi Go Pro a Creative Sound Blaster Recon 3D a Turtle Beach Riviera a Turtle Beach Amigo II and or the like. An audio device may be discreet external embedded integrated into a motherboard and or the like. An audio device may operate in combination with other audio devices e.g. in parallel to provide improved capabilities data throughput audio quality and or the like.

In some embodiments the input output devices may include one or more network devices . The processor may make use of the one or more network devices in accordance with program instructions e.g. RMG program instructions executed by the processor. In one implementation a network device may be a network card that may obtain e.g. via a Category 5 Ethernet cable process output e.g. via a wireless antenna and or the like network data e.g. RMG data . A network card may be connected to the system bus via an interface such as PCI PCI Express USB FireWire PC Card ExpressCard and or the like. A network card may be a wired network card e.g. 10 100 1000 optical fiber a wireless network card e.g. Wi Fi 802.11a b g n ac ad Bluetooth Near Field Communication NFC TransferJet a modem e.g. dialup telephone based asymmetric digital subscriber line ADSL cable modem power line modem wireless modem based on cellular protocols such as high speed packet access HSPA evolution data optimized EV DO global system for mobile communications GSM worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMax long term evolution LTE and or the like satellite modem FM radio modem radio frequency identification RFID modem infrared IR modem and or the like. For example a network card may be an Intel EXPI9301CT an Intel EXPI9402PT a LINKSYS USB300M a BUFFALO WLI UC G450 a Rosewill RNX MiniN1 a TRENDnet TEW 623PI a Rosewill RNX N180UBE an ASUS USB BT211 a MOTOROLA SB6120 a U.S. Robotics USR5686G a Zoom 5697 00 00F a TRENDnet TPL 401E2K a D Link DHP W306AV a StarTech ET91000SC a Broadcom BCM20791 a Broadcom InConcert BCM4330 a Broadcom BCM4360 an LG VL600 a Qualcomm MDM9600 a Toshiba TC35420 TransferJet device and or the like. A network device may be discreet external embedded integrated into a motherboard and or the like. A network device may operate in combination with other network devices e.g. in parallel to provide improved data throughput redundancy and or the like. For example protocols such as link aggregation control protocol LACP based on IEEE 802.3AD 2000 or IEEE 802.1AX 2008 standards may be used. A network device may be used to connect to a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN a personal area network the Internet an intranet a Bluetooth network an NFC network a Wi Fi network a cellular network and or the like.

In some embodiments the input output devices may include one or more peripheral devices . The processor may make use of the one or more peripheral devices in accordance with program instructions e.g. RMG program instructions executed by the processor. In various implementations a peripheral device may be a digital camera a video camera a webcam an electronically moveable pan tilt zoom PTZ camera a monitor a touchscreen display active shutter 3D glasses head tracking 3D glasses a remote control an audio line in an audio line out a microphone headphones speakers a subwoofer a router a hub a switch a firewall an antenna a keyboard a mouse a trackpad a trackball a digitizing tablet a stylus a joystick a gamepad a game controller a force feedback device a laser sensors e.g. proximity sensor rangefinder ambient temperature sensor ambient light sensor humidity sensor an accelerometer a gyroscope a motion sensor an olfaction sensor a biosensor a chemical sensor a magnetometer a radar a sonar a location sensor such as global positioning system GPS Galileo GLONASS and or the like a printer a fax a scanner a copier a card reader and or the like. A peripheral device may be connected to the system bus via an interface such as PCI PCI Express USB FireWire VGA DVI Mini DVI Micro DVI HDMI DisplayPort Thunderbolt composite video S Video component video PC Card ExpressCard serial port parallel port PS 2 TS TRS RCA TOSLINK network connection e.g. wired such as Ethernet optical fiber and or the like wireless such as Wi Fi Bluetooth NFC cellular and or the like a connector of another input output device and or the like. A peripheral device may be discreet external embedded integrated e.g. into a processor into a motherboard and or the like. A peripheral device may operate in combination with other peripheral devices e.g. in parallel to provide the RMG coordinator with a variety of input output and processing capabilities.

In some embodiments the input output devices may include one or more storage devices . The processor may access read from write to store in erase modify and or the like a storage device in accordance with program instructions e.g. RMG program instructions executed by the processor. A storage device may facilitate accessing storing retrieving modifying deleting and or the like data e.g. RMG data by the processor. In one implementation the processor may access data from the storage device directly via the system bus. In another implementation the processor may access data from the storage device by instructing the storage device to transfer the data to the system memory and accessing the data from the system memory. In various embodiments a storage device may be a hard disk drive HDD a solid state drive SSD a floppy drive using diskettes an optical disk drive e.g. compact disk CD ROM drive CD Recordable CD R drive CD Rewriteable CD RW drive digital versatile disc DVD ROM drive DVD R drive DVD RW drive Blu ray disk BD drive using an optical medium a magnetic tape drive using a magnetic tape a memory card e.g. a USB flash drive a compact flash CF card a secure digital extended capacity SDXC card a network attached storage NAS a direct attached storage DAS a storage area network SAN other processor readable physical mediums and or the like. A storage device may be connected to the system bus via an interface such as PCI PCI Express USB FireWire PC Card ExpressCard integrated drive electronics IDE serial advanced technology attachment SATA external SATA eSATA small computer system interface SCSI serial attached SCSI SAS fibre channel FC network connection e.g. wired such as Ethernet optical fiber and or the like wireless such as Wi Fi Bluetooth NFC cellular and or the like and or the like. A storage device may be discreet external embedded integrated e.g. into a motherboard into another storage device and or the like. A storage device may operate in combination with other storage devices to provide improved capacity data throughput data redundancy and or the like. For example protocols such as redundant array of independent disks RAID e.g. RAID 0 striping RAID 1 mirroring RAID 5 striping with distributed parity hybrid RAID just a bunch of drives JBOD and or the like may be used. In another example virtual and or physical drives may be pooled to create a storage pool. In yet another example an SSD cache may be used with a HDD to improve speed.

Together and or separately the system memory and the one or more storage devices may be referred to as memory i.e. physical memory .

RMG memory contains processor operable e.g. accessible RMG data stores . Data stores comprise data that may be used e.g. by the RMG via the RMG coordinator. Such data may be organized using one or more data formats such as a database e.g. a relational database with database tables an object oriented database a graph database a hierarchical database a flat file e.g. organized into a tabular format a binary file e.g. a GIF file an MPEG 4 file a structured file e.g. an HTML file an XML file a text file and or the like. Furthermore data may be organized using one or more data structures such as an array a queue a stack a set a linked list a map a tree a hash a record an object a directed graph and or the like. In various embodiments data stores may be organized in any number of ways i.e. using any number and configuration of data formats data structures RMG coordinator elements and or the like to facilitate RMG operation. For example RMG data stores may comprise data stores implemented as one or more databases. A users data store may be a collection of database tables that include fields such as UserID UserName UserPreferences UserTemplates and or the like. A clients data store may be a collection of database tables that include fields such as ClientID ClientName ClientDeviceType ClientScreenResolution and or the like. A logic rules data store may be a collection of database tables that include fields such as LogicRulesSpecification ParametersSpecification and or the like. A templates data store may be a collection of database tables that include fields such as TemplatelD TemplateName TemplateTiles and or the like. A template sets data store may be a collection of database tables that include fields such as TemplateSetlD TemplateSetDimensions TemplateSetMembers TemplateSetMembersOrder and or the like. The RMG coordinator may use data stores to keep track of inputs parameters settings variables records outputs and or the like.

RMG memory contains processor operable e.g. executable RMG components . Components comprise program components including program instructions and any associated data stores that are executed e.g. by the RMG via the RMG coordinator i.e. via the processor to transform RMG inputs into RMG outputs. It is to be understood that the various components and their subcomponents capabilities applications and or the like may be organized in any number of ways i.e. using any number and configuration of components subcomponents capabilities applications RMG coordinator elements and or the like to facilitate RMG operation. Furthermore it is to be understood that the various components and their subcomponents capabilities applications and or the like may communicate among each other in any number of ways to facilitate RMG operation. For example the various components and their subcomponents capabilities applications and or the like may be combined integrated consolidated split up distributed and or the like in any number of ways to facilitate RMG operation. In another example a single or multiple instances of the various components and their subcomponents capabilities applications and or the like may be instantiated on each of a single RMG coordinator node across multiple RMG coordinator nodes and or the like.

In various embodiments program components may be developed using one or more programming languages techniques tools and or the like such as an assembly language Ada BASIC C C C COBOL Fortran Java LabVIEW Lisp Mathematica MATLAB OCaml PL I Smalltalk Visual Basic for Applications VBA HTML XML CSS JavaScript JavaScript Object Notation JSON PHP Perl Ruby Python Asynchronous JavaScript and XML AJAX Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP SSL ColdFusion Microsoft .NET Apache modules Adobe Flash Adobe AIR Microsoft Silverlight Windows PowerShell batch files Tcl graphical user interface GUI toolkits SQL database adapters web application programming interfaces APIs application server extensions integrated development environments IDEs libraries e.g. object libraries class libraries remote libraries remote procedure calls RPCs Common Object Request Broker Architecture CORBA and or the like.

In some embodiments components may include an operating environment component . The operating environment component may facilitate operation of the RMG via various subcomponents.

In some implementations the operating environment component may include an operating system subcomponents. The operating system subcomponents may provide an abstraction layer that facilitates the use of communication among common services for interaction with security of and or the like of various RMG coordinator elements components data stores and or the like.

In some embodiments the operating system subcomponents may facilitate execution of program instructions e.g. RMG program instructions by the processor by providing process management capabilities. For example the operating system subcomponents may facilitate the use of multiple processors the execution of multiple processes multitasking and or the like.

In some embodiments the operating system subcomponents may facilitate the use of memory by the RMG. For example the operating system subcomponents may allocate and or free memory facilitate memory addressing provide memory segmentation and or protection provide virtual memory capability facilitate caching and or the like. In another example the operating system subcomponents may include a file system e.g. File Allocation Table FAT New Technology File System NETS Hierarchical File System Plus HAS Universal Disk Format UHF Linear Tape File System LETS to facilitate storage retrieval deletion aggregation processing generation and or the like of data.

In some embodiments the operating system subcomponents may facilitate operation of and or processing of data for and or from input output devices. For example the operating system subcomponents may include one or more device drivers interrupt handlers file systems and or the like that allow interaction with input output devices.

In some embodiments the operating system subcomponents may facilitate operation of the RMG coordinator as a node in a computer network by providing support for one or more communications protocols. For example the operating system subcomponents may include support for the Internet protocol suite i.e. Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TAP TIP of network protocols such as TAP TIP User Data gram Protocol UP Mobile TIP and or the like. In another example the operating system subcomponents may include support for security protocols e.g. Wired Equivalent Privacy WEEP Wi Fi Protected Access PA PA2 for wireless computer networks. In yet another example the operating system subcomponents may include support for virtual private networks VANS .

In some embodiments the operating system subcomponents may facilitate security of the RMG coordinator. For example the operating system subcomponents may provide services such as authentication authorization audit network intrusion detection capabilities firewall capabilities anti virus capabilities and or the like.

In some embodiments the operating system subcomponents may facilitate user interaction with the RMG by providing user interface elements that may be used by the RMG to generate a user interface. In one implementation such user interface elements may include widgets e.g. windows dialog boxes scroll bars menu bars tabs ribbons menus buttons text boxes checkboxes combo boxes drop down lists list boxes radio buttons sliders spinners grids labels progress indicators icons tool tips and or the like that may be used to obtain input from and or provide output to the user. For example such widgets may be used via a widgets toolkits such as Microsoft Foundation Classes MAC Apple Cocoa Touch Java Swing GTX Qt Yahoo User Interface Library XI and or the like. In another implementation such user interface elements may include sounds e.g. event notification sounds stored in MPG3 file format animations vibrations and or the like that may be used to inform the user regarding occurrence of various events. For example the operating system subcomponents may include a user interface such as Windows Zero Mac OS X Aqua GNOME Shell kDa Plasma Workspaces e.g. Plasma Desktop Plasma Netbook Plasma Contour Plasma Mobile and or the like.

In various embodiments the operating system subcomponents may comprise a single user operating system a multi user operating system a single tasking operating system a multitasking operating system a single processor operating system a multi processor operating system a distributed operating system an embedded operating system a real time operating system and or the like. For example the operating system subcomponents may comprise an operating system such as UNIX LINE IBM i Sun Solariums Microsoft Windows Server Microsoft DOS Microsoft Windows 7 Apple Mac OS X Apple IONS Android Syrian Windows Phone 7 Blackberry QNX and or the like.

In some implementations the operating environment component may include a database subcomponents. The database subcomponents may facilitate RMG capabilities such as storage analysis retrieval access modification deletion aggregation generation and or the like of data e.g. the use of data stores . The database subcomponents may make use of database languages e.g. Structured Query Language SQL XQuery stored procedures triggers APIs and or the like to provide these capabilities. In various embodiments the database subcomponents may comprise a cloud database a data warehouse a distributed database an embedded database a parallel database a real time database and or the like. For example the database subcomponents may comprise a database such as Microsoft SQL Server Microsoft Access MySQL IBM DB2 Oracle Database and or the like.

In some implementations the operating environment component may include an information handling subcomponents. The information handling subcomponents may provide the RMG with capabilities to serve deliver upload obtain present download and or the like a variety of information. The information handling subcomponents may use protocols such as Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure HTTPS File Transfer Protocol FTP Telnet Secure Shell SSH Transport Layer Security TLS Secure Sockets Layer SSL peer to peer P2P protocols e.g. BitTorrent and or the like to handle communication of information such as web pages files multimedia content e.g. streaming media applications and or the like.

In some embodiments the information handling subcomponents may facilitate the serving of information to users RMG components nodes in a computer network web browsers and or the like. For example the information handling subcomponents may comprise a web server such as Apache HTTP Server Microsoft Internet Information Services IIS Oracle WebLogic Server Adobe Flash Media Server Adobe Content Server and or the like. Furthermore a web server may include extensions plug ins add ons servlets and or the like. For example these may include Apache modules IIS extensions Java servlets and or the like. In some implementations the information handling subcomponents may communicate with the database subcomponents via standards such as Open Database Connectivity ODBC Java Database Connectivity JDBC ActiveX Data Objects for .NET ADO.NET and or the like. For example the information handling subcomponents may use such standards to store analyze retrieve access modify delete aggregate generate and or the like data e.g. data from data stores via the database subcomponents.

In some embodiments the information handling subcomponents may facilitate presentation of information obtained from users RMG components nodes in a computer network web servers and or the like. For example the information handling subcomponents may comprise a web browser such as Microsoft Internet Explorer Mozilla Firefox Apple Safari Google Chrome Opera Mobile Amazon Silk Nintendo 3DS Internet Browser and or the like. Furthermore a web browser may include extensions plug ins add ons applets and or the like. For example these may include Adobe Flash Player Adobe Acrobat plug in Microsoft Silverlight plug in Microsoft Office plug in Java plug in and or the like.

In some implementations the operating environment component may include a messaging subcomponents. The messaging subcomponents may facilitate RMG message communications capabilities. The messaging subcomponents may use protocols such as Simple Mail Transfer Protocol SMTP Internet Message Access Protocol IMAP Post Office Protocol POP Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol XMPP Real time Transport Protocol RTP Internet Relay Chat IRC Skype protocol AOL s Open System for Communication in Realtime OSCAR Messaging Application Programming Interface MAPI Facebook API and or the like to facilitate RMG message communications. The messaging subcomponents may facilitate message communications such as email instant messaging Voice over TIP VoIP video conferencing Short Message Service SMS web chat and or the like. For example the messaging subcomponents may comprise Microsoft Exchange Server Microsoft Outlook Sendmail IBM Lotus Domino Gmail AOL Instant Messenger AIM Yahoo Messenger ICQ Trillian Skype Google Talk Apple FaceTime Apple iChat Facebook Chat and or the like.

In some implementations the operating environment component may include a security subcomponents that facilitates RMG security. In some embodiments the security subcomponents may restrict access to the RMG to one or more services provided by the RMG to data associated with the RMG e.g. stored in data stores to communication messages associated with the RMG and or the like to authorized users. Access may be granted via a login screen via an API that obtains authentication information via an authentication token and or the like. For example the user may obtain access by providing a username and or a password e.g. a string of characters a picture password a personal identification number PIN an identification card a magnetic stripe card a smart card a biometric identifier e.g. a finger print a voice print a retina scan a face scan a gesture e.g. a swipe a media access control MAC address an TIP address and or the like. Various security models such as access control lists ACLs capability based security hierarchical protection domains and or the like may be used to control access. For example the security subcomponents may facilitate digital rights management DRM network intrusion detection firewall capabilities and or the like.

In some embodiments the security subcomponents may use cryptographic techniques to secure information e.g. by storing encrypted data verify message authentication e.g. via a digital signature provide integrity checking e.g. a checksum and or the like by facilitating encryption and or decryption of data. Furthermore steganographic techniques may be used instead of or in combination with cryptographic techniques. Cryptographic techniques used by the RMG may include symmetric key cryptography using shared keys e.g. using one or more block ciphers such as triple Data Encryption Standard DES Advanced Encryption Standard AES stream ciphers such as Rivest Cipher 4 RC4 Rabbit asymmetric key cryptography using a public key private key pair e.g. using algorithms such as Rivest Shamir Adleman RSA Digital Signature Algorithm DSA cryptographic hash functions e.g. using algorithms such as Message Digest 5 MD5 Secure Hash Algorithm 2 SHA 2 and or the like. For example the security subcomponents may comprise a cryptographic system such as Pretty Good Privacy PGP .

In some implementations the operating environment component may include a virtualization subcomponents that facilitates RMG virtualization capabilities. In some embodiments the virtualization subcomponents may provide support for platform virtualization e.g. via a virtual machine . Platform virtualization types may include full virtualization partial virtualization paravirtualization and or the like. In some implementations platform virtualization may be hardware assisted e.g. via support from the processor using technologies such as AMD V Intel VT x and or the like . In some embodiments the virtualization subcomponents may provide support for various other virtualized environments such as via operating system level virtualization desktop virtualization workspace virtualization mobile virtualization application virtualization database virtualization and or the like. In some embodiments the virtualization subcomponents may provide support for various virtualized resources such as via memory virtualization storage virtualization data virtualization network virtualization and or the like. For example the virtualization subcomponents may comprise VMware software suite e.g. VMware Server VMware Workstation VMware Player VMware ESX VMware ESXi VMware ThinApp VMware Infrastructure Parallels software suite e.g. Parallels Server Parallels Workstation Parallels Desktop Parallels Mobile Parallels Virtuozzo Containers Oracle software suite e.g. Oracle VM Server for SPARC Oracle VM Server for x86 Oracle VM VirtualBox Oracle Solariums 10 Oracle Solariums 11 Informatica Data Services Wine and or the like.

In some embodiments components may include a user interface component . The user interface component may facilitate user interaction with the RMG by providing a user interface. In various implementations the user interface component may include programmatic instructions to obtain input from and or provide output to the user via physical controls e.g. physical buttons switches knobs wheels dials textual user interface audio user interface GUI voice recognition gesture recognition touch and or multi touch user interface messages APIs and or the like. In some implementations the user interface component may make use of the user interface elements provided by the operating system subcomponents of the operating environment component. For example the user interface component may make use of the operating system subcomponents s user interface elements via a widgets toolkits. In some implementations the user interface component may make use of information presentation capabilities provided by the information handling subcomponents of the operating environment component. For example the user interface component may make use of a web browser to provide a user interface via HTML5 Adobe Flash Microsoft Silverlight and or the like.

In some embodiments components may include any of the components TG described in more detail in preceding figures.

The entirety of this disclosure including the written description figures claims abstract appendices and or the like for RHYTHMIC MOSAIC GENERATION METHODS APPARATUSES AND MEDIA shows various embodiments via which the claimed innovations may be practiced. It is to be understood that these embodiments and the features they describe are a representative sample presented to assist in understanding the claimed innovations and are not exhaustive and or exclusive. As such the various embodiments implementations examples and or the like are deemed non limiting throughout this disclosure. Furthermore alternate undescribed embodiments may be available e.g. equivalent embodiments . Such alternate embodiments have not been discussed in detail to preserve space and or reduce repetition. That alternate embodiments have not been discussed in detail is not to be considered a disclaimer of such alternate undescribed embodiments and no inference should be drawn regarding such alternate undescribed embodiments relative to those discussed in detail in this disclosure. It is to be understood that such alternate undescribed embodiments may be utilized without departing from the spirit and or scope of the disclosure. For example the organizational logical physical functional topological and or the like structures of various embodiments may differ. In another example the organizational logical physical functional topological and or the like structures of the RMG coordinator RMG coordinator elements RMG data stores RMG components and their subcomponents capabilities applications and or the like described in various embodiments throughout this disclosure are not limited to a fixed operating order and or arrangement instead all equivalent operating orders and or arrangements are contemplated by this disclosure. In yet another example the RMG coordinator RMG coordinator elements RMG data stores RMG components and their subcomponents capabilities applications and or the like described in various embodiments throughout this disclosure are not limited to serial execution instead any number and or configuration of threads processes instances services servers clients nodes and or the like that execute in parallel concurrently simultaneously synchronously asynchronously and or the like is contemplated by this disclosure. Furthermore it is to be understood that some of the features described in this disclosure may be mutually contradictory incompatible inapplicable and or the like and are not present simultaneously in the same embodiment. Accordingly the various embodiments implementations examples and or the like are not to be considered limitations on the disclosure as defined by the claims or limitations on equivalents to the claims.

This disclosure includes innovations not currently claimed. Applicant reserves all rights in such currently unclaimed innovations including the rights to claim such innovations and to file additional provisional applications nonprovisional applications continuation applications continuation in part applications divisional applications and or the like. It is to be understood that while some embodiments of the RMG discussed in this disclosure have been directed to generating rectangular templates for photo mosaics the innovations described in this disclosure may be readily applied to a wide variety of other fields and or applications.

