---

title: Integrating two-dimensional bar codes and embedded links with call center operation
abstract: In various embodiments, advertising campaigns can be defined that incorporate technologies such as two-dimensional bar codes or embedded links in electronic material, for directing a user to communicate with a call center. For instance, in particular embodiments, the reading of a two-dimensional bar code by a user with a smart phone may cause various forms of communication requesting a return communication. The communication from the smart phone may be sent to, and received at, the call center, where a calling campaign associated with an advertising campaign is identified using information associated with the communication. A responding communication may be initiated from the call center to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09374459&OS=09374459&RS=09374459
owner: NOBLE SYSTEMS CORPORATION
number: 09374459
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150924
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 242 081 entitled Integrating Two Dimensional Barcodes and Embedded Links with Call Center Operation filed on Apr. 1 2014 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 957 094 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 787 953 and entitled Integrating Two Dimensional Barcodes and Embedded Links with Call Center Operation filed on Aug. 1 2013 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 461 515 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 526 922 and entitled Integrating Two Dimensional Barcodes and Embedded Links with Call Center Operation filed on May 1 2012 the contents of which are incorporated by reference for all that they teach and this application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 461 513 filed on May 1 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 548 133 and entitled Managing Electronic Consent for Calling Campaigns and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 461 541 filed on May 1 2012 entitled Using Quick Response Codes to Generate An Electronic Consent Database the contents of which are incorporated by reference for all that they teach.

Advertisers are always seeking new ways to use a variety of media and advertising technologies to drive contact from potential customers. One such technique is to incorporate developed technologies which may afford greater convenience and may appeal to younger consumers. For instance electronic communication technologies may allow a consumer of advertising to choose whether to easily interact with advertising encountered by the consumer.

One such developed technology is two dimensional barcodes 2D barcode used in conjunction with mobile applications in mobile processing devices such as smart phones equipped with digital cameras. The digital camera is used to read the 2D barcode and perform an action based on data encoded into the barcode. For example users can use their smart phone to read a 2D barcode displayed on a product s packaging or in an advertisement for the product found in a magazine to receive further information about the product.

Another developed technology to drive contact from potential customers is links e.g. hyperlinks embedded in electronic reading material such as digital books and periodicals e.g. magazines for example. For instance many devices such as e books smart phones tablets and personal computers used to display electronic reading material are configured to communicate over channels such as Wi Fi and or cellular networks. Hyperlinks may be embedded in electronic reading material that may perform an action such as linking to a website sound video or additional reading media over such communication channels in order to enhance the enjoyment of the reader. For example an electronic periodical may have a review of a new music album that has been released that includes links to one or more sound bite files of the songs found on the album. As a result a reader of the review can click on a link for a particular song to listen to the sound bite of the song.

While use of 2D barcodes and links is often used for linking to web sites or other electronic media the use of such technologies can also furnish other capabilities that provide a more personalized response for information requests that involve for example accessing a call center. The use of such technologies can be effective in allowing a consumer of advertising to respond immediately to an advertisement and receive information for a variety of purposes. It is with respect to these and other considerations that the disclosure herein is presented.

Technologies are generally presented herein pertaining to integrating 2D barcode usage with call center operation. This frequently involves producing and distributing an advertisement for a product or service bearing a 2D barcode that can be read by a user employing a camera equipped device such as a smart phone executing an appropriate application. Reading the 2D barcode results in the processing device performing various actions using data encoded in the 2D barcode. For example in particular embodiments the actions may result in an electronic communication being sent to a call center that can process a request from the user for additional information on the product or service being advertised. The call center can use data in the communication to ascertain a calling campaign and respond either in the same form as the initial electronic communication or in a different form.

The subject matter disclosed herein may be implemented as a computer controlled apparatus a method a computing system or as an article of manufacture such as a computer readable storage medium. These and various other features will be apparent from the following Detailed Description and the associated drawings.

This Summary is provided to exemplify concepts at a high level form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended that this Summary be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter. Furthermore the claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that address any or all disadvantages noted in any part of this disclosure.

Various embodiments for practicing the technologies disclosed herein are described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments of the technologies disclosed are shown. Indeed the embodiments disclosed herein are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements and should not be construed as limiting or precluding other embodiments applying the teachings and concepts disclosed herein. Like numbers in the drawings refer to like elements throughout.

Depending on the embodiment inbound voice calls may originate from calling parties using a variety of different phone types. For instance a calling party may originate a call from a conventional analog telephone connected to a public switched telephone network PSTN using an analog plain old telephone service POTS line . The calls may be routed by the PSTN and may comprise various types of facilities including but not limited to T trunks SONET based fiber optic networks ATM networks etc. Various types of routers switches bridges gateways and other types of equipment may be involved in the processing of the calls.

Inbound voice calls may also originate from a smart phone device such as a smart phone tablet or other smart device which wirelessly communicates with a mobile service provider MSP . The voice calls may be routed to the PSTN using an integrated services digital network ISDN interface or other types of interfaces that are well known to those skilled in the art. In particular embodiments the MSP may also route calls as packetized voice referred to herein as voice over IP VoIP to an Internet provider using Internet based protocols. For convenience unless indicated otherwise the term trunk refers to any type of facility or providing voice calls to or from the call center regardless of the type of protocol or technology used. Specifically a trunk is not limited to time division multiplexing TDM technology.

Inbound voice calls may also originate from a calling party employing a so called IP phone VoIP phone or soft phone . In one embodiment this device may comprise a computing device such as a laptop computing tablet or other electronic device which interfaces with a headphone microphone combination also referred to as a headset . An IP phone may use a digital voice control protocol and may process packetized voice data according to various Internet based voice protocols such as session initiated protocol SIP . The call may be conveyed by other types of Internet providers such as a cable company providing Internet access services over a coaxial cable facility . Those skilled in the art will recognize that a variety of protocols and facilities may be used to convey voice calls.

The term telephone call as used herein is generally synonymous with a voice call unless indicated otherwise. Further the term telephone call may encompass a voice call originating from any type of device such as a soft phone conventional telephone a smart phone or other device known in the art. The term call as used herein may mean an active instance of two way communication an attempt to establish two way communication or a portion of the two way communication. For example a user at a conventional telephone can dial a telephone call in an attempt to establish two way communication and a call can be said to exist even prior to establishment of a two way connection. In another example a call may be put on hold and a portion of the call may be referred to as a call leg existing between the caller and certain equipment. A call may comprise a number of concatenated call legs as known to those skilled in the art. In certain contexts which will be made explicit the call may encompass communications other than voice for example text email video chat facsimile etc.

In various embodiments inbound calls from callers to the call center may be received at an automatic call distributor ACD . In particular embodiments the ACD may be a specialized switch for receiving and routing inbound calls under various conditions. Further the ACD may be embodied as a dedicated form of equipment readily available from various manufacturers or the ACD may be a so called soft switch comprising a suitable programming module executed by a processing device to perform the necessary functions. The ACD may route an incoming call over call center facilities to an available agent. Depending on the embodiment the facilities may be any suitable technology for conveying the call including but not limited to a local area network LAN wide area network WAN ISDN or conventional TDM circuits. In addition the facilities may be the same or different from the facilities used to transport the call to the ACD .

In various embodiments calls may be routed over facilities to an agent for servicing. That is for example the party may speak with an agent to receive customer service. The physical area at which the agent sits is often referred to as an agent position and these positions are often grouped into clusters managed by a supervisor who may monitor calls and the agents productivity. An agent typically uses a computing device such as a computer and a voice device . The combination of computing device and voice device may be referred to as a workstation. Thus for these particular embodiments the workstation collectively has a data capability and a voice capability although separate devices may be used. In some instances workstation may be used in reference to either the data or voice capability at the agent s position. For example routing the call to the agent s workstation means routing a call to one of the voice devices at the agent s position. Similarly routing the call to the agent means routing a call to the appropriate equipment at an agent s position.

In particular embodiments the voice device used by an agent may be a soft phone device exemplified by a headset connected to the computer . The soft phone device may be a virtual telephone implemented in part by an application program executing on the computer . Further the phone may also comprise an Internet Protocol IP based headset or a conventional phone . Use of the term phone is intended to encompass all these types of voice devices used by an agent unless indicated otherwise.

Agents typically log onto their workstations prior to handling calls. This allows the call center to know which agents are available for handling calls. In particular embodiments the ACD may also maintain data of an agent s skill level that may be used to route a specific call to the agent or group of agents having the same skill level. In particular instances if a suitable agent is not available to handle a call the ACD may queue the call for the next available agent. As can be expected various algorithms may be employed to process calls in an efficient manner.

In various embodiments two types of signaling information may be provided with an inbound call that may be used by the ACD in processing the call. The first type of signaling information indicates the telephone number dialed by the caller and is frequently referred to as DNIS derived from the Dialed Number Identification Service associated with this capability. For example in particular instances a call center may provide various services such as sales customer service technical support etc. each of which may be associated with a different telephone number e.g. multiple toll free 800 numbers . In these instances the ACD may use the DNIS to determine the purpose of the call and potentially identify a group of agents having the appropriate skill level to handle the call. Thus in various embodiments the ACD may prioritize and route calls to an agent based on the required skill level. Skills based routing may be a rule based set of instructions that the ACD uses to handle calls. Depending on the embodiment skills based routing may be implemented by the ACD or by the ACD interacting with a computer telephone integrated CTI server .

In various embodiments the CTI server may be incorporated in the call center architecture to control and or coordinate other components of the architecture . Specifically the CTI server may interact with the ACD to coordinate call processing. Thus in particular embodiments the CTI server may control routing of calls from the ACD to the various agent workstations and or may provide data to other components processing the calls. The CTI server may also provide call reporting functionality based on data collected during calls.

The second type of signaling information that may be provided with an inbound call is the calling telephone number often referred to as automatic number identification or ANI. In particular embodiments the ACD and or CTI server may use the ANI of an incoming call to retrieve caller information from a data store and provide the data to an agent s workstation computer over facilities along with routing the call to the agent s workstation phone . Further in particular embodiments the ANI may also be used to ascertain a party s status e.g. a Gold Level customer warranting premium service and or to facilitate the ACD routing the call to a select group of agents. Depending on the embodiment the data store may include one or more databases storing different information such as for example records of caller information. Further the data store may be integrated with the CTI server the ACD or segregated as a standalone medium or media.

In various embodiments the ACD may place a call in a queue if there are no suitable agents available and or it may route the call to an interactive voice response server IVR to play voice prompts. In particular embodiments these prompts may be in a menu type structure and the IVR may collect and analyze responses from the party in the form of dual tone multiple frequency DMTF tones and or speech. In addition the IVR may be used to further identify the purpose of the call such as for example prompting the party to enter account information or otherwise obtain information used to service the call. Further in particular embodiments the IVR may interact with other components such as the CTI server or the data store to retrieve or provide information for processing the call. In other configurations the IVR may be used to only provide announcements.

Depending on the embodiment the interaction between the ACD IVR CTI server agent computers as well as other components may involve using a local area network LAN . However other configurations are possible such as but not limited to using a wide area network wireless network router bridge direct point to point links etc.

In particular embodiments when an agent is interacting with a called or calling party the agent may use his workstation computer to further interact with other enterprise computing systems such as for example a customer relationship management CRM server . A CRM server may be used to integrate information from various enterprise business systems to facilitate the agent servicing the call. In addition the CRM server may provide a variety of applications.

In addition to receiving inbound communications including for example voice calls emails text messages and facsimiles the call center may also originate communications to a called party referred to herein as outbound communications. In some embodiments a call center may employ a dialer such as a predictive dialer to originate outbound calls on behalf of an agent at a rate designed to meet various criteria. Similar to the other components within the call center architecture depending on the embodiment the dialer may comprise one or more software modules executing on a processing device hardware platform.

In various embodiments the dialer is typically configured to dial a list of telephone numbers to initiate outbound calls which can be accomplished by instructing the ACD to originate the calls. Thus in some embodiments the ACD may include functionality for originating calls and if so this functionality may be referred to as a private automatic branch exchange PBX or PABX . In other embodiments not shown the dialer may directly interface with voice trunks using facilities to the PSTN and or Internet providers for originating calls. After the calls are originated a transfer operation by the ACD may connect the call with an agent or place the call in a queue for an available agent. In the latter case announcements or music may be provided to the party. In various embodiments the dialer may make use of one or more algorithms to determine how and when to dial a list of numbers so as to minimize the likelihood of a called party being placed in a queue while maintaining target agent utilization.

Another server that may be employed in the call center architecture is a workforce management WFM server . In various embodiments this server maintains information to generate agents schedules to effectively handle inbound outbound calls. For instance in particular embodiments the WFM server may maintain historical call volume information for call campaigns and may forecast expected call volume to predict the number of agents needed to handle the call volume at a defined service level. The WFM server may then apply information about available agents to generate a work roster of agents. In other words the WFM server may schedule agents for their work shifts according to the anticipated needs of the call campaigns.

Finally in various embodiments the call center architecture may include one or more other processing devices to perform various functions. For example in one particular embodiment the call center architecture includes a processing device to serve as a quality assurance system that records communications fielded by agents and or allows managers to monitor communications to ensure these communications are being handled correctly.

Although the above components are referred to as a server each may be also referred to in the art as a computing device unit or system. A server may incorporate a local data store and or interface with an external data store. Use of the word server does not require the component to interact in a client server arrangement with other components although that may be the case. Further the above components may be located remotely from or co located with other components. Furthermore one or more of the components may be implemented on a single processing device to perform the functions described herein. For example in various embodiments one or more functionalities of the ACD IVR CRM server CTI server dialer and or WFM server may be combined into a single hardware platform executing one or more software modules. In addition the call center architecture may be provided as a hosted solution where the call processing functionality is provided as a communication service a so called communication as a service or CaaS to a call center operator. Thus there is no requirement that the servers identified above actually be located or controlled by a call center operator.

In addition depending on the embodiment the agent positions may be co located in a single physical call center or multiple physical call centers. The agents may be remotely located from the other components of the call center and may also be remotely located from each other sometimes referred to as a virtual call center. In particular instances a virtual call center may describe a scenario in which agents work at home using their own computers and telephones as workstations. In some configurations a single physical location of the call center may not be readily identifiable. For instance this may occur when the call processing functions are provided as a service in a hosted cloud computing environment and the agents positions are in their individual residences.

Turning now to a second architecture is shown involving a provider of electronic reading material in communication with a call center publisher . In one embodiment a publisher is a provider of information to a user on a subscription basis. For instance the publisher may be an entity such as Amazon Apple or Barnes and Noble that routinely provides electronic versions of books news print and periodicals on electronic device s used by various users. These users may be subscribers with the publisher and the device s may be proprietary devices specifically configured to be used for electronic reading material provided by the publisher or may be general use devices that may have the capability to read such material. For example the device s may be Amazon s Kindle devices and or Barnes and Nobles Nook devices configured to specifically read electronic reading material provided by these publishers. In addition the device s may be a tablet such as an Apple s IPad device and or desktop or laptop computer that have functionality in addition to reading electronic reading material provided by a particular publisher. In other embodiments the device s may be a smart phone. For instance users may download an application to their general use device s that allow them to view and read electronic reading materials from publishers such as Amazon and Barnes and Nobles .

As shown in a user s device may communicate with a particular publisher using different channels according to various embodiments. For instance in particular embodiments a user s device may have Internet capabilities and may be able to communicate with a publisher over the Internet . As one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate in light of this disclosure that the device may communicate over wired or wireless connections. Thus a user s device may be in communication with one or more components such as a publisher server located within the publisher s system. In addition in particular embodiments a user s device may have capabilities to be able to communicate with the publisher in similar fashion over other channels such as a cellular network. Likewise a user s device may communicate with a call center e.g. ACD over similar channels as the devices described above and such communications may be electronic data and or voice calls.

Further in particular embodiments one or more components in the publisher s system such as the publisher server may be in communication over one or more networks and may retrieve information from a data store in response to a link embedded in an electronic reading material being activated. Similar to the call enter depending on the embodiment the data store may include one or more databases storing different information such as for example records on subscribers and or call centers. Further the data store may be integrated with the publisher server or segregated as a standalone medium or media.

Those skilled in art will recognize represent one possible configuration of each architecture and that variations are possible with respect to the protocols facilities components technologies and equipment used. For example various algorithms and queuing arrangements may be defined to efficiently process calls. In other configurations the ACD may be configured to process not only voice calls but also other forms of communication and perform corresponding call processing functions for email text chats or facsimile calls. Alternatively a web server not shown in may receive or originate email chats and text communications as well as interact with other components in the call center and or publisher.

Quick response QR codes are one format for two dimensional barcodes 2D barcode known for encoding information. Typically a camera equipped mobile device such as a smart phone reads the QR barcode using the digital camera that is controlled by an appropriate mobile application. A number of barcode reader mobile applications can be downloaded for different devices including but not limited to the Apple iPhone and Android based smart phones. There are various standard or proprietary forms of two dimensional barcodes and for illustrations purposes the two dimensional barcode known as a QR code is used to illustrate the concepts herein since this is a common format. However depending on the embodiment other 2D barcodes formats can be used with the technologies disclosed herein. A number of web sites or service providers can provide 2D barcode generators that can receive information and generate the 2D barcode.

QR codes can indicate an action to be performed by the mobile device and data to be used in performing that action. Typically the action and data are encoded by the spacing of the black and white squares in a unique pattern using defined encoding rules. As a result different formats of QR codes can be used to encode various amount of information with different capabilities. The actions that may be invoked by the QR code include for example providing contact information defining a calendar event indicating an email address indicating a telephone number to dial providing geo location information to an application sending a SMS message displaying text logging onto to a Wi Fi network and invoking an application such as Skype that can initiate a VoIP call.

In particular embodiments the mobile application may be designed so that user input is required before completing the action that operates using the data. For example the QR code can load data for initiating a telephone call or an SMS message and the mobile application can request the user to confirm the action before performing the action. Depending on the embodiment such a configuration may be preferred as opposed to automatically originating the phone call or sending the SMS message without requiring confirmation.

Further in particular embodiments when a QR code is read for sending an SMS message the QR code conveys the destination address e.g. including but not limited to a telephone number that is to be used and or pre populates the contents of the text portion of the SMS message. Thus in these particular embodiments the user does not need to enter this information and such capability may avoid the user from mistyping or incorrectly completing such information.

Depending on the embodiment the structure of the advertisement may include a tag line informing the reader that further information may be obtained by reading the QR code . However as QR codes are becoming more popular it may not be necessary to inform the reader that further information may be obtained by reading the QR code as the user base may come to expect this. The tag line may indicate what benefits may be realized by reading the QR code . In addition the tag line may include an incentive to motivate the reader to read the QR code . For example the incentive may be for example a discount prize free accessory promotional materials trial coupon or any other conventional marketing incentive.

As noted above in one embodiment reading a QR code may merely cause a text message to be displayed on the device without originating an electronic communication from the device. However in other embodiments a data communication or voice communication may be initiated. For example reading the QR code may result in a web page being accessed a SMS message being sent or a phone call being initiated.

Further a user may be hesitant to read the QR code because doing so may result in data usage or other charges to be incurred by the user. That is even if the user has a tiered data plan data usage may eventually result in increased data charges. Consequently in particular embodiments the provider of the advertisement or the goods or services may arrange for payment of the data charges associated with the data transfer to encourage the user to read the QR code and follow through on the action. This can be done in a variety of ways which are evident to those skilled in the art of wireless data transfer billing. For example some carriers have announced mechanisms to allow a third party mobile application developer to pay for data transfer charges on behalf of a wireless subscriber as a means for encouraging the subscriber to access a particular web site. In other embodiments the recipient of the SMS message which often may be the call center sent from the smart phone may be charged for the SMS message. Accordingly various approaches are possible for ensuring the user is not charged for the SMS message.

Turning now to this figure provides an embodiment of using a link in electronic reading material to cause an action to occur similar to the actions described above with respect to QR codes illustrated in the advertisement. In this particular embodiment the electronic reading material may be a periodical such as a magazine downloaded to a subscriber s viewing device . In this example the content of the periodical contains an advertisement for Best Price Realtors. The advertisement informs the reader e.g. subscriber to Wust ring the doorbell and an agent will be right with you In this instance the doorbell is a link found on the advertisement that may be selected by the reader to activate an action associated with the link. For example similar to the QR codes described above the action may result in the initiation of some type of data and or voice communication. Furthermore in particular embodiments the advertisement may gather additional information from the reader such as a telephone number the reader may be contacted at. As one of ordinary skill in the art can envision similar to QR codes the provider of the advertisement or the goods or services may arrange for payment of the data charges associated with the communication e.g. data transfer to encourage the reader to select the link and follow through on the action.

Depending on the embodiment the actions performed and the data used in conjunction with a QR code or link may vary as a result of reading the QR code or activating the link. In general any of the actions that may be initiated by a QR code could also be associated with a link. The following embodiments illustrate various approaches that can occur but are not intended to be exhaustive as those skilled in the art will recognize that variations are possible. The process flow that a code reader in a mobile device and or a reading device performs can be programmed in various ways some of which are identified.

The process begins in operation when the user operates the smart phone to read a particular QR code. In some embodiments this may occur based on the user viewing an advertisement which bears the QR code and provides an incentive for the user to read the code. As a result of reading the code the mobile phone is configured to originate a voice call to an indicated telephone number. In this particular embodiment assuming the user s consent is requested and received in operation the smart phone originates the voice call as represented by messaging . For instance the establishment of the voice call may be a telephone call using the appropriate wireless protocol for the smart phone e.g. CDMA GSM etc. While in other embodiments the call may be a voice call initiated by a VoIP application such as Skype . In this particular example the voice call setup messaging is based on using the originating telephone number TN of the mobile phone and the destination TN which was provided by reading the QR code and the call is set up to a call center.

In particular embodiments additional information may be provided with the voice call setup messaging . For example in some embodiments user to user signaling allows user defined data user to user information or UUI to be conveyed along with a call setup or during the call. Various wireless and wireline signaling protocols allow a limited amount of UUI to be transferred along with the establishment of the call. Depending on the embodiment this information may be encoded in the QR code and populated by the QR code mobile application reader during call setup and or may be provided by the user in response to prompts by the QR code mobile application reader. The user may not always know that UUI is being transferred along with the call establishment.

In operation the call center determines the appropriate calling campaign after receiving the call. For instance in particular embodiments the call center may be receiving inbound calls for a variety of campaigns and hence it is necessary for the call center to distinguish which campaign a particular received call is involved with. For example in one embodiment an initial screen display on the answering agent s workstation may be populated according to the type of campaign associated with the call and the initial screen display may provide the agent with scripts product information advertising campaign context etc. for the type of calling campaign.

According to various embodiments the call center may determine the calling campaign in different ways. For instance the call center may identify the campaign based on the called telephone number a.k.a. called number or destination telephone number . In these particular embodiments the call is delivered with a called telephone number and by assigning a unique called telephone number for each campaign the call center uses the called telephone number to identify the appropriate campaign before the call is answered by the agent. Depending on the embodiment the called telephone number may be a direct inward dial DID telephone number in a NPA NXX XXXX format or a toll free number. In some instances the called telephone number may also be referred to as DNIS dialed number information service . In other embodiments the call center may determine the campaign by using other information such as the UUI which may be included in the call setup. For instance the UUI may include a context code advertising code and or other information that is uniquely associated with the campaign. Thus depending on the particular embodiment the call center may determine the campaign based on the called telephone number the UUI and or other information conveyed along with or during the call. Once the campaign has been identified and an appropriate agent is selected to receive the call the voice call is established using messaging . As a result the call center agent is now engaged in a voice call with the user.

The SMS messaging may comprise the originating address which may be in the form of a TN or a short code the destination address which may be in the form of a TN and or the message text. In particular instances the content of the message text may be altered by the user prior to sending the SMS message but in many instances the user is presumed to send the message text in an unaltered form.

In operation the call center determines which campaign the SMS message is associated with. In particular embodiments the call center may accomplish this task by examining the destination TN which may be uniquely associated with the campaign. In other embodiments the call center may accomplish this task by examining the message text content which may uniquely identify the campaign. For the example the call center may use the text syntax the presence of a context code and or other identifier to identify the campaign. It should be noted that if the message text content identifies the campaign then the same destination TN can be used for other campaigns in some embodiments.

Once the call center has identified the campaign the call center may respond with SMS response messaging . The response message may confirm receipt provide the requested information and or provide a time for scheduling a voice call back from the call center etc. For example the SMS response message may request whether the user desired an immediate voice call back from an agent.

In operation similar to the processes already described the call center determines the campaign for example by examining the destination address and or the message text content. Once the call center determines the appropriate campaign the call center selects an agent and a voice call is setup in messaging to the smart phone . Presuming the user answers then a voice call is established in messaging .

In this particular embodiment the request for information in a first format e.g. a text message results in a follow up communication in a second format e.g. a voice call. Such an embodiment allows the user to have the convenience of personalized contact with an agent and allows for a more rapid and flexible exchange of information.

In operation the call center determines the campaign for example by examining the destination address and or the message text. Once the call center determines the appropriate campaign an email message is initiated in messaging to the smart phone

In this particular embodiment the request for information in a first format e.g. an email message results in a follow up communication in the same format. In other embodiments however the user could include his or her telephone number in the email message so as to have a voice call returned from the call center . Such a configuration allows the user to have the convenience of personalized contact with an agent and allows for a more rapid and flexible exchange of information.

As a result the user may access one or more of the web pages to request a voice call in messaging . In some instances this may require the user to provide a telephone number and explicitly request the call back. In operation the call center determines the campaign for example by examining the accessed web address and or information selected from one or more web pages. Once the call center determines the appropriate campaign the call center then selects an agent and voice call setup messaging is sent to the smart phone . In messaging the voice call between the user and the agent is established.

The process begins with operation with the user reading the QR code that causes a text message to be displayed on the smart phone s display . The message can be for example instructions to call a toll free number and potentially enter information as requested. In messaging the call is initiated to the destination TN indicated in the text.

Once the call center determines the appropriate campaign in operation the call center then selects an agent and a voice call is established in messaging with the smart phone . In this embodiment the establishment of the voice call is under the direct control of the user. Further in particular instances the voice call may be established to an IVR instead of directly to an agent and the user may be prompted to enter a code or further information. For example if an agent is not available the IVR may be used to schedule a call back time for the indicated campaign as identified by the user.

Similar to QR codes described above in various embodiments the selection of the link may cause a number of different actions to occur. In this particular instance the selection of the link causes messaging to occur to the publisher of the electronic reading material. Depending on the embodiment a screen may first appear on the reader s device prior to the message being sent to the publisher . For instance in one embodiment a screen may appear on the reader s device requesting the reader to enter information on his or her subscription e.g. account username and or password with the publisher . In another embodiment the user may be prompted for authorization for the publisher to use information about the user. Accordingly this information may be sent along in the body of the message to the publisher . Further in particular embodiments the advertisement with the embedded link may also request information from the reader that may be included in the body of the message. For example the advertisement may request a telephone number at which the reader may be reached. Those of ordinary skill in the art can envision several pieces of information that may be included along with the message sent to the publisher in light of this disclosure.

Upon receiving the messaging the publisher identifies the campaign associated with the messaging in operation . Similar to QR codes the publisher may identify the campaign in a variety of different ways according to various embodiments. For instance in particular embodiments the publisher may examine text syntax the presence of a context code and or other identifiers contained in the message that uniquely identifies the campaign and or the reader. Further in particular embodiments the publisher may also retrieve information to aid in identifying the campaign.

In addition depending on the embodiment the publisher may also retrieve additional information on the reader not included in the message. For example in one embodiment the publisher may retrieve contact information on the reader based on the reader s account information provided in the message. As a result the contact information may then be forwarded to a call center so that the contact information may be used by the call center to contact the reader.

Upon identifying the call campaign the publisher assembles a message request that is sent in messaging to the call center associated with the identified call campaign. In general the message request is associated with an expected type of response to the reader. For example in this particular embodiment the message request includes a request for the call center to place a call to the reader to provide additional information and or assistance with respect to the product or service associated with the advertisement viewed in the electronic reading material.

In particular embodiments the publisher may include a number of different types of information in the message to the call center to help the call center contact the reader. For example the publisher may include contact information retrieved for the reader and or include a contact e.g. telephone number provided by the reader in the message sent to the publisher .

Upon receiving the message the call center processes the message request in operation . Depending on the embodiment and based on the information provided in the message request the call center may need to determine the campaign associated with the request. Further the call center may need to identify additional information associated with the call campaign such as for example information to populate a display screen on an agent s workstation that may provide the agent with scripts product information advertising campaign context etc. for the type of campaign.

Typically in many embodiments the request message sent by the publisher will include the information needed to contact the reader. In some embodiments the publisher may store information regarding the reader e.g. the reader may be a subscriber of the publisher . However in some instances the call center may also retrieve contact information associated with the reader based on information provided in the request message sent from the publisher to the call center .

Once the call center reads the message request in operation the call center selects an appropriate agent and a voice call is setup in messaging to the reader. Depending on the embodiment and or circumstances of the reader the voice call may be placed to the reader s device used to read the electronic reading material or to a separate device. For example the user a.k.a. as an e reader or simply reader may be using an iPad to read the electronic reading material which may not have a phone capability. In this instance the call center may place the voice call to another device of the user such as the user s cell phone. In the embodiment show the device is presumed to have a phone capability and a voice call is established in messaging between the agent and the device .

In this particular embodiment the request for information from the user in a first format e.g. a text message results in a follow up communication in a second format e.g. a voice call. Thus similar to the QC codes such an embodiment allows the user to have the convenience of personalized contact with an agent and allows for a more rapid and flexible exchange of information.

It should be noted that although process diagrams are not provided for other forms of communication using embedded links in electronic reading material such other forms may be utilized in similar fashions as those used with QR codes. For instance similar to QR codes activation of links embedded in electronic reading material in various embodiments can lead to the call center sending users SMS messages and or emails having users access a web site that results in voice calls with the call center and or having text messages prompt users to initiate calls to the call center. Thus the modes of communications used by the various parties e.g. users publisher and call center may differ depending on the embodiment.

An illustration of the message flow for one of the above embodiments involving the use of a QR code is shown in . Specifically shows an embodiment of a message flow that involves sending a SMS message from a smart phone to a call center after reading a QR code and receiving in response a return call from the call center. As shown an advertisement is distributed in some manner that displays a QR code . For purposes of illustration this could be an advertisement in a magazine.

The QR code is read by the smart phone as illustrated by messaging and the smart phone originates a SMS message that is conveyed by a mobile service provider . The message may be conveyed by the Internet to various SMS infrastructure which may involve gateways servers data stores etc. In some embodiments the infrastructure may involve a gateway that performs reverse billing of the SMS messages. That is the gateway may record the number of SMS messages sent to the call center and bill the call center for this traffic. In another embodiment the gateway may convert the digital text message from a SMS message format to an email format which is then forwarded to the call center. In converting the digital text message to a particular format the information in the original SMS message is typically retained. For instance in particular embodiments the message body the SMS destination address and or the SMS originating address are all retained as part of the contents of the email message. Thus the SMS message can be delivered in whole using another format such as an email format. The email message may be forwarded to a messaging server in the call center. At this point the email message may be considered as sent from the smart phone to the call center.

At the call center depending on the embodiment a number of operations may occur upon receipt of the message . These may occur in different order. For purposes of illustration the following order of events occurs. First the messaging server provides a copy of the email message to the data store in message . In particular instances the data store may be a database or a plurality of databases that retains a copy for various purposes. For example a copy may be retained for purposes of recording potential customer contacts and or a copy may be stored to demonstrate that the user provided electronic consent for receiving a subsequent telemarketing oriented communication. The electronic consent infrastructure may be that as disclosed in the above referenced patent applications.

Next the messaging server informs a dialer that a call back should be scheduled or should occur as soon as possible to the user in messaging . Depending on the embodiment the dialer may employ various dialing techniques and may be a fully automated process or may be a manual or semi manual process and involve an agent. In this particular embodiment an agent is involved in the call back.

The dialer identifies the calling campaign based on the received email message and retrieves information associated with the calling campaign. Depending on the embodiment this information may include agent instructions advertising related product data etc. Further the contents of the received email message may be displayed to the agent prior to call back origination. Doing so may allow the agent to readily determine if the user had altered the text of the pre populated message body. For example if the message body indicates Please call me about your new line up of 2012 hybrid cars the user may have edited the text to state for instance Please call me about your new line up of 2012 hybrid cars especially the SUV model. An indication of any altered text can be highlighted or otherwise indicated by the call center systems to the agent. This allows the agent to easily identify any customized user requests.

Consequently the dialer establishes a call leg using messaging with a selected agent s workstation . Contemporaneously but not necessarily simultaneously the dialer may establish a call leg to the user in messaging . Assuming that the user answers the dialer bridges joins conferences or otherwise causes the two call legs to be connected. Thus the agent is connected via a voice call to the user. In some embodiments the dialer may report the successful status of the call to the messaging server and or to the data store . As noted previously this voice call could be a VoIP type of voice call.

Similarly a more detailed message flow for one of the above embodiments involving the use of an embedded link in electronic reading material is shown in . Specifically shows an embodiment of a message flow that involves sending a message from a reading device to a publisher server and subsequently a call center after activating a link embedded in electronic reading material and receiving in response a return call from the call center. Specifically an advertisement containing an embedded link is placed in electronic reading material such as an issue of a magazine and the material is made available by the publisher to its subscribers. A particular subscriber selects the particular issue of the magazine by operating the device downloads the issue to his or her reading device and begins to view the issue on the device .

During the viewing of the issue of the magazine the advertisement is encountered and the subscriber selects the link embedded in the advertisement to request a call from a call center agent to receive additional information on the product being promoted in the advertisement . As a result the reading device originates a message that is conveyed over the Internet to the publisher s system . The message may be in various forms including text messages email facsimile etc. The publisher s system may comprise a series of gateways servers data stores and in some embodiments the system may involve a gateway not shown that performs reverse billing of messages sent to the publisher and or the call center. That is the gateway may record the number of messages sent to the publisher and or the call center from various users and bill the call center for this traffic. Depending on the embodiment the gateway may convert the digital message received as a result of the activation of the link into a different format to send to the call center such as to a SMS message format and or an email format. In this manner the user of the device does not have to pay messages charges for responding to the advertisement links.

Similar to the QR code process described above when converting the message to a particular format the information in the original message may be retained in various embodiments. For instance in particular embodiments the message body received from the subscriber s device is retained as part of the contents of the SMS or email message . Although in a number of embodiments additional information such as contact information for a communication device and or email address for the subscriber may be added to the contents of the SMS or email message . In other embodiments the publisher may add information about the subscriber based on subscriber records maintained by the publisher server . Thus the original message can be delivered in whole using another format such as a SMS or email format. The SMS or email message may be forwarded to a messaging server in the call center. At this point the SMS or email message may be considered as sent from a device of the subscriber directly to the call center. That is in particular embodiments the SMS or email message received by the call center is treated in a similar fashion as other communications typically received by the call center.

At the call center depending on the embodiment a number of operations may occur and these may occur in different order than disclosed herein. However for purposes of illustration the following order of events occurs similar to the events described above with respect to originating messages from reading a QR code. First the messaging server provides a copy of the SMS or email message to the data store in message . In particular instances the data store may be a database or a plurality of databases that retains a copy for various purposes. For example a copy may be retained for purposes of recording potential customer contacts and or a copy may be stored to demonstrate that the user provided electronic consent for receiving a subsequent telemarketing oriented communication.

Next the messaging server informs a dialer that a call back should be scheduled or should occur as soon as possible to the subscriber on the device identified in the message in messaging . This could be the device or another device such as a smart phone or wireline phone associated with the user. Depending on the embodiment the dialer may employ various dialing techniques and may be a fully automated process or may in whole or in part a manual process and involve an agent. In this particular embodiment an agent is involved in the call back.

The dialer identifies the calling campaign based on the received SMS or email message and retrieves information associated with the calling campaign. Depending on the embodiment this information may include agent instructions advertising related product data etc. Further the contents of the received message may be displayed to the agent. Doing so may allow the agent to readily determine if the user had altered the text of a pre populated message body.

Consequently the dialer establishes a call leg using messaging with a selected agent s workstation . Contemporaneously but not necessarily simultaneously the dialer may establish a call leg to the subscriber in messaging . Assuming that the subscriber answers the dialer bridges joins conferences or otherwise causes the two call legs to be connected. Thus the agent is connected via a voice call to the subscriber. In some embodiments the dialer may report the successful status of the call to the messaging server and or to the data store .

In the process begins with the smart phone reading the advertisement with the QR code as depicted by operation or the subscriber activating the link embedded in an advertisement in the electronic reading material on a reading device . As a result a SMS message in operation is sent to the call center or an indicator message is sent to the publisher of the electronic reading material.

In the case of the indicator message being sent to the publisher a program module comprising instructions executed by a processor analyzes the indicator message. From the analysis the program module first determines the subscriber who has activated the link . Depending on the embodiment the program module may carry out this task by analyzing information contained within the message body of the indicator message. Furthermore the program module may retrieve additional information about the subscriber from a subscriber information database . For example in particular embodiments the program module may query the subscriber information database to retrieve contact information for the subscriber to pass along to the call center .

Further in particular embodiments the program module determines the call campaign associated with the indicator message. Similar to ascertaining the subscriber the program module may ascertain the campaign by analyzing information contained within the message body of the indicator message. For instance in one embodiment the message body contains a campaign identifier that the program module uses to query a call campaign information database . The information retrieved from the call campaign information database may contain a number of different information related to the associated campaign.

For example the information stored in the call campaign information database may inform the publisher which call center should be notified of the subscriber s actions. There may be a plurality of call centers only a single call center is shown in located in various time zones or regions and based on the origination of the initial indicator message or other factors the publisher may select one particular call center to send the notification to. There may be a plurality of advertisements or that the publisher may direct to various call centers based on the advertising content. If the advertisement was for a particular brand of automobile then the automobile manufacturer may require any call backs occur from a particular call center e.g. a corporate owned call center.

The notification message may involve an application programming interface to the call processing computers in the call centers. Thus the computer processing devices in the publisher may be closed coupled with the computer processing devices in the call center .

In various embodiments once the program module has identified the subscriber and the associated call campaign the program module constructs and sends a notification message in operation to the appropriate call center . Depending on the embodiment the notification message may take on a number of different formats such as for example SMS message or email format. As a result the call center in various embodiments can treat the notification message like any other type of inbound communication that the call center normally receives. Thus in this particular instance the program module constructs the notification message as a SMS message and sends the SMS message to the call center .

Once received at the call center a program module comprising instructions executed by a processor within the call center analyzes the SMS message. For instance in particular embodiments the program module may analyze the SMS message to ascertain the campaign associated with the SMS message. For example in one embodiment the program module may ascertain the campaign by mapping a destination address found in the body of the SMS message with a campaign and or by determining a campaign identifier in a look up table stored in memory. The program module may also determine a set of agents that are trained for that campaign and select one of the agents that is available to conduct the call back call. This is indicated by operation in which the appropriate agent is notified of the number to call back.

Contemporaneously in various embodiments the call center may record the incoming SMS message in a contact information database . The database may be owned and operated by the call center or may controlled by a third party. This data may be used for example to build a list of potential customers analyze campaign effectiveness etc. Another database that may also be utilized during the process is a call back queue which represents the list of users that are to receive a call back.

Unlike other types of call backs the priority of initiating a call back may vary based on the initial form of contact from the user. For example SMS messaging implies a certain level of urgency based on its real time nature. Thus an incoming communication originating from a user reading a QR code or subscriber activating an embedded link that results in an SMS message may be provided the highest or a higher priority in the call back queue relative to other call backs indicated in the queue . In contrast an incoming communication that is an email message may not imply the same level of urgency and may be provided a lower priority in the call back queue relative to a SMS message. However in other embodiments an email message and SMS message may be given the same priority. Finally once the SMS message reaches the proper position in the queue the selected agent calls back the user or subscriber in operation .

It is possible that various teams of agents will be allocated to a particular queue for performing call backs where an advertising campaign is associated with a particular team of agents. Thus agents skilled or knowledgeable about a particular product as featured in an advertisement may be selected for performing the callback.

However in this embodiment the user e.g. associated with smart phone or subscriber e.g. associated with device does not answer in the voice call back . As a result the appropriate status is updated by the call center and the call center originates a follow up SMS message in operation . Depending on the circumstances the follow up or response message can be transmitted as an email instead of an SMS message to the user or subscriber or can be initially transmitted as an email and the email may then be interworked by a gateway into a SMS message that is transmitted to the user s or subscriber s communication device. Thus as referred to herein whenever the call center sends an SMS message in particular embodiments this may include the call center sending a message initially in an email format that is then converted to an SMS format. Depending on the embodiment the response message can indicate that a call back was attempted and inform the user or subscriber that another call back will be scheduled later or that the user or subscriber can call the call center at a specified telephone number at the user s or subscriber s convenience. In this manner a missed call may not result in a lost marketing opportunity. If the call center attempts the voice call back which results in a no answer condition the call center may inform the publisher of this so that the publisher is aware as well. Alternatively the contact information database may be shared with the publisher advertiser product manufacturer etc. so as to allow them to measure the effectiveness of the advertising campaign.

Turning to the process begins with operation when an indicator message is sent from the device used by the subscriber to read the electronic reading material to the publisher as a result of subscriber activating the embedded link . Depending on the embodiment the indicator message may be received directly at a server at the publisher or relayed from another server to the publisher. In operation the indicator message is analyzed to determine what subscriber is associated with the message. Depending on the embodiment the analysis may involve ascertaining the subscriber by analyzing information contained within the message and or may involve retrieving information on the subscriber from one or more data sources. In operation the indicator message is further analyzed to determine the campaign associated with the message. Again similar to determining the subscriber the analysis may involve ascertaining the campaign by analyzing information contained within the message and or may involve retrieving information on the campaign from one or more data sources.

Finally in operation the process concludes with constructing and sending a notification message to the call center . Depending on the embodiment the notification message may comprise different information such as for instance information on the campaign associated with the message and or information on the subscriber associated with the message. For example in one embodiment the campaign information may include a campaign identifier that the call center may use to identify the campaign associated with the message. In addition in one embodiment the subscriber information may include the name of the subscriber and information on how to contact the subscriber such as a telephone number and or email address. Further as previously described the notification message may take a number of different formats depending on the embodiment. For example in various embodiments the notification message may take the format of one of a SMS message email message or voice call message. In other embodiments the publisher may use an application program interface to interface with various computers in the call center. Once received the call center may then process the notification message and contact the subscriber in an appropriate manner.

Likewise illustrates one embodiment of a process flow for the call center to process the communication received by the call center as illustrated above. Similar to the process flow described above with respect to the publisher the process flow operations are numbered based on information that can be transmitted. The logical operations described herein are implemented as a sequence of computer implemented acts or as one or more program modules running on a computing system and or as interconnected machine logic circuits or circuit modules within a computing system. The implementation is a matter of choice dependent on the performance and other requirements of the computing system. Accordingly the logical operations described herein are referred to variously as states operations structural devices acts or modules. These operations structural devices acts and modules may be implemented in software in firmware in special purpose digital logic and any combination thereof. Greater or fewer operations may be performed than shown in the figures and described herein. These operations may also be performed in a different order than those described herein.

Turning to the process begins with operation when a communication e.g. SMS message is sent from either the smart phone to the call center as a result of reading a QR code or the publisher as a result of a subscriber activating the embedded link . Depending on the embodiment the SMS message may be received at a messaging server at the call center or relayed from another server. In operation the SMS message is analyzed to determine the campaign it is associated with. Depending on the embodiment the analysis can be accomplished by analyzing information such as the called number the text contents of the message or both.

In operation the agent is selected based on the identified campaign. In particular instances the campaign may require an agent with appropriate training for handling a call associated with that campaign. Contemporaneously the contact information database in operation may be updated and the call back queue is updated in operation followed by the call back involving the selected agent occurring in operation .

If the call is answered in operation then the agent converses with the user or subscriber. As a result in particular embodiments the call center will update the contact information database in operation with an indication that the call back occurred. In particular embodiments the agent may indicate a disposition code and or other information that may be recorded so that a complete record of the call back is maintained. If the call is not answered in operation then the contact information database is updated to reflect the unsuccessful attempt in operation . As a result a follow up SMS message may be sent in operation in particular embodiments.

Turning to the process begins with a smart phone reading the QR code on an advertisement in operation and as a result an initial SMS message is generated in operation to the call center . Accordingly the call back queue is updated in operation and the contact information database is updated in operation .

In this particular embodiment the call center sends back a confirmation SMS requesting a call back time in operation . The call center may trigger this response as a matter of course for this campaign. For example if the call back time would exceed the regulatory time window for a telemarketing call the call center may send back the SMS message in operation to select a time that is within the calling window. In another example the request may require an agent with particular skills to be involved in the call back e.g. certain language skills that may not be immediately available. Depending on the embodiment a number of different conditions may prohibit an immediate call back that may trigger this message. The message could request for example that the user respond with a time frame for when the call back by the call center could occur.

In operation the response SMS message is sent by the user to the call center indicating the requested time for a call back. The response SMS message could also indicate for example a particular number to call for receiving the call back. Finally in operation the voice call back occurs as requested in the response SMS message.

The process flow for the call center processing is shown in and is similar to . However for this process in operation the call center may determine the existence of a condition that precludes an immediate call back such as the unavailability of an agent. This may trigger the call center to return the SMS message in operation to schedule a call back time. In operation the response SMS message is received and used to update the call back queue in operation . The other operations are the same as discussed for .

The integration of QR codes with a call center may involve an advertising campaign coordinated with a call campaign using QR codes . This may involve the various entities discussed above operating in a coordinated manner including for example a call center a wireless service provider an advertising marketing agency and a provider of goods or services.

The publisher places an advertisement by selling a service to an advertising marketing agency that designs the advertisement campaign. The advertising marketing agency may place a number of various types of advertisements using a number of publishers direct mail marketing entity etc. Typically the advertising marketing agency will purchase a defined amount of ad space and hence a payment is made to the publisher for running the advertisement with the QR code .

The advertising marketing agency may be hired by a provider of goods services Provider to define and execute the advertisement campaign. The Provider may be a local business franchise to a national manufacturer or service provider. Typically the Provider pays the advertising marketing agency to execute the advertising campaign.

The Provider may coordinate a call campaign with a call center . In some embodiments the advertising marketing agency may do this on behalf of the Provider .

The call center prepares to handle the communication and respond according to a defined manner hence the call center must implement a call campaign. Up to this point the term campaign without any further qualification could refer to an advertising campaign or a call campaign. In the context of the actions performed by the call center are distinct from the actions performed by the advertising marketing agency . It is evident that there must be coordination between the various entities. For example the destination telephone number indicated in a QR code for addressing the communication from a smart phone to a call center must route the communication to the call center and further this value may be required by the call center to be associated with a particular calling campaign.

The call center may in some embodiments have an arrangement where it reimburses the wireless service provider for a SMS message sent from the smart phone to the call center . This third party billing arrangement for SMS messages or other electronic data communications associated with the QR code may exist as an incentive for the user to read the QR code . The call center may record each of the SMS messages received. In another embodiment the wireless service provider may also record the SMS message sent to the call center . This allows the call center to effectively pay for the electronic communication and a subsequent settling of accounts may occur between the call center and the Provider . In other embodiments the advertising marketing agency or the Provider may pay the wireless service provider .

The SMS message may be delivered instead to another entity which is then forwarded to the call center . For example the Provider may initially receive the electronic communication and forward a copy to the call center . Those skilled in the art will recognize various other arrangements and configurations are possible.

The SMS messages received at the call center may be stored in whole or in part in the contact information database of for example. If the destination address is used to identify the calling campaign then a report from the contact information database can be generated for all received SMS messages for a particular campaign. The number of messages received can be the basis for the call center to reimburse the wireless service provider . For example since the wireless service provider may not bill the originating users for transfer of the SMS messages the call center could pay the wireless service provider based on the number of received SMS messages. The call center may further have to pay for any response SMS messages sent to users by the call center . Other billing arrangements are possible.

In other embodiments the functions of one of the entities identified above may be merged integrated performed or subsumed by another entity. For example a call center could perform the functions of an advertising marketing agency and coordinate for the publication of the advertisement. In other embodiments the call center may be internal to or controlled by the Provider . In other embodiments the call center may be integrated with the wireless service provider which may occur if the wireless service provider is contacting its own subscribers for promotions etc.

The call center may incorporate an electronic consent database based on the electronic communication received from the user. Thus the architecture concepts and technologies disclosed in the previously mentioned patent applications may be incorporated in the call center .

In similar fashion the integration of embedded links in electronic reading material with a call center may also involve an advertising campaign coordinated with a call campaign with the various entities discussed above operating in a coordinated manner including for example the call center the wireless service provider the advertising marketing agency and the Provider . However in this instance the call campaign uses links in place of the QR codes and the campaigns involve a publisher of electronic reading material instead of or in addition to a publisher of printed materials operating in a coordinated manner with the other entities.

Similar to a publisher of printed materials the publisher of electronic reading materials places the advertisement in electronic reading material by selling a service to the advertising marketing agency that designs the advertisement campaign. Typically the advertising marketing agency will provide the ad campaign design to the publisher and hence a payment is made to the publisher for placing the advertisement with the embedded link in the issue of the periodical.

Similar to before the advertising marketing agency may be hired by the Provider to define and execute the advertisement campaign and the Provider pays the advertising marketing agency to execute the advertising campaign. Likewise the Provider may coordinate a call campaign with a call center or the advertising marketing agency or publisher may do this on behalf of the Provider . However in this instance the call center may not only need to prepare to handle communications associated with the call campaign and respond according in a defined manner but the publisher may also need to prepare to handle communications received as a result of embedded links being activated and communications sent to the call center associated with the call campaign. Thus in many instances involving embedded links coordination must generally exist between the publisher and the call center .

Further in particular embodiments an arrangement may be set up in a similar fashion as with respect to communications involving QR codes for the publisher to pay the wireless service provider for any response messages sent to subscribers by the call center e.g. call back communications . In addition an arrangement may be set up for the publisher to pay the wireless service provider for messages sent from a subscriber s device over a channel provided by the wireless service provider if such a channel is used. However other billing arrangements are possible in which for example the Provider and or call center provides payment for such communications handled by the wireless service provider . In addition in certain embodiments arrangements may be made for the publisher to be reimbursed by the Provider for payments made to the wireless service provider .

In other embodiments the functions of one of the entities identified above may be merged integrated performed or subsumed by another entity. For example a call center and or publisher could perform the functions of the advertising marketing agency and coordinate for the publication of the advertisement. In other embodiments the call center may be internal to or controlled by the Provider . In other embodiments the call center may be integrated with the wireless service provider which may occur if the wireless service provider is contacting its own subscribers for promotions etc.

As discussed in conjunction with and the call center architecture may comprise various components such as servers front end databases that comprise a processing system. is an exemplary schematic diagram of a computer processing device that may be used in an embodiment of the call center architecture to practice the technologies disclosed herein. provides an exemplary schematic of a processing device system which could represent individually or in combination for example the ACD CTI server dialer publisher server data store or other component previously described. In general the term processing system may be exemplified by for example but without limitation a personal computer server desktop computer tablets smart phones notebooks laptops distributed systems servers blades gateways switches and the like as well as any combination of devices or entities adapted to perform the functions described herein.

As shown in the processing system may include one or more processors that may communicate with other elements within the processing system via a bus . The processor may be implemented as one or more complex programmable logic devices CPLD microprocessors multi core processors digital signal processors DSP system on a chip SOC co processing entities application specific integrated circuits ASIC field programmable gate arrays FPGA programmable logic arrays PLA hardware accelerators other circuitry or the like.

In one embodiment the processing system may also include one or more communications interfaces for communicating data via the local network with various external devices such as other components of . In other embodiments communication may be via wired optical or wireless networks or a combination thereof . The communication may use a variety of data transmission protocols such as fiber distributed data interface FDDI Ethernet asynchronous transfer mode ATM or frame relay.

The input output controller may also communicate with one or more input devices or peripherals using an interface such as but not limited to a keyboard a mouse a touch screen display input microphone pointing device etc. The input output controller may also communicate with output devices or peripherals such as displays printers speakers headsets banner displays etc.

The processor may be configured to execute instructions stored in volatile memory non volatile memory or other forms of computer readable storage media accessible to the processor . The volatile memory may comprise various types of memory technologies including but not limited to random access memory RAM dynamic random access memory DRAM static random access memory SRAM and other forms well known to those skilled in the art. The non volatile memory may comprise various technologies including but not limited to storage media such as hard disks floppy disks read only memory ROM programmable read only memory PROM electrically erasable read only memory EPROM flash memory and other forms well known to those skilled in the art.

The non volatile memory may store program code and data which also may be loaded into the volatile memory at execution time. Specifically the non volatile memory may store one or more message processing program modules and or operating system code containing instructions for performing the process and or functions associated with the technologies disclosed herein. The message processing program module may also access generate or store data such as the aforementioned records and data in the non volatile memory as well as in the volatile memory . The volatile memory and or non volatile memory may be used to store other information including but not limited to records applications programs scripts source code object code byte code compiled code interpreted code machine code executable instructions or the like. These may be executed or processed by for example processor . These may form a part of or may interact with the message processing program module .

The technologies described herein may be implemented in various ways including as computer program products comprising memory storing instructions causing a processor to perform the operations associated with the above technologies. The computer program product may comprise a non transitory computer readable storage medium storing applications programs program modules scripts source code program code object code byte code compiled code interpreted code machine code executable instructions and or the like also referred to herein as executable instructions instructions for execution program code and or similar terms . Such non transitory computer readable storage media include all the above identified media including volatile and non volatile media but does not include a transitory propagating signal. Non volatile computer readable storage medium may specifically comprise a floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape compact disc read only memory CD ROM compact disc compact disc rewritable CD RW digital versatile disc DVD Blu ray disc BD any other non transitory optical medium and or the like. Non volatile computer readable storage medium may also comprise read only memory ROM programmable read only memory PROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory and or other technologies known to those skilled in the art.

Many modifications and other embodiments of the concepts and technologies set forth herein will come to mind to one skilled in the art having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is to be understood that embodiments other than the embodiments disclosed herein are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Although specific terms may be employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

