---

title: Methods and systems for locating nearest bluetooth beacons
abstract: This disclosure relates generally to Bluetooth beacons and more particularly to methods and system for locating nearest Bluetooth beacons. In one embodiment, a method for locating a nearest Bluetooth beacon within a plurality of Bluetooth beacons is disclosed. The method includes identifying a latest highest Received Signal Strength Indication (RSSI) value Bluetooth beacon associated with a highest RSSI value from within a set of latest scanned Bluetooth beacons. The method further includes computing at least one average RSSI value for a predefined number of RSSI value detections associated with at least one Bluetooth beacon within a latest and previous set of scanned Bluetooth beacons. Thereafter, the method includes identifying a highest average RSSI value Bluetooth beacon from within the latest and previous set of scanned Bluetooth beacons.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09467934&OS=09467934&RS=09467934
owner: WIPRO LIMITED
number: 09467934
owner_city: Bangalore
owner_country: IN
publication_date: 20150622
---
This U.S. patent application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 to Indian Application No. 1599 CHE 2015 filed on Mar. 28 2015. The aforementioned application is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This disclosure relates generally to Bluetooth beacons and more particularly to methods and system for locating nearest Bluetooth beacons.

Bluetooth beacons are rapidly emerging as technology for indoor navigation and positioning. The Bluetooth beacons are used to provide proximity and context specific information to mobile devices. Examples of the mobile devices may include but are not limited to smartphones tablets phablets and Laptops. Bluetooth beacon transmits a signal using Bluetooth Low Energy BLE . This signal contains a unique identifier for that Bluetooth beacon. However to ensure relevancy of the information transmitted to the mobile device the Bluetooth beacon that is nearest to the mobile device needs to be accurately determined.

In conventional methods and systems Received Signal Strength Indication RSSI value is used to detect the nearest Bluetooth beacon. However RSSI values depend on a plurality of factors that may include transmitted power receive sensitivity antenna used physical obstacles to the radio wave propagation distance between the transmitter and the receiver signal interference and orientation of the antenna. As a result Bluetooth beacons may have inconsistent or varying RSSI values resulting in inaccurate identification of nearest Bluetooth Beacon.

In one embodiment a method for locating a nearest Bluetooth beacon within a plurality of Bluetooth beacons. The method includes identifying a latest highest Received Signal Strength Indication RSSI value Bluetooth beacon associated with a highest RSSI value from within a set of latest scanned Bluetooth beacons computing at least one average RSSI value for a predefined number of RSSI value detections associated with at least one Bluetooth beacon within a latest and previous set of scanned Bluetooth beacons wherein the at least one Bluetooth beacon is common in the set of latest scanned Bluetooth beacons and the previous set of scanned Bluetooth beacons identifying a highest average RSSI value Bluetooth beacon from within the latest and previous set of scanned Bluetooth beacons the highest average RSSI value Bluetooth beacon being associated with a highest average RSSI value within the at least one average RSSI value and selecting the nearest Bluetooth beacon from the set of latest scanned Bluetooth beacons and the previous set of scanned Bluetooth beacons based on the identifying of the latest highest RSSI value Bluetooth beacon and the identifying of the highest average RSSI value Bluetooth beacon.

In another embodiment mobile device for locating a nearest Bluetooth beacon within a plurality of Bluetooth beacons. The mobile device comprising at least one processor and a computer readable medium storing instructions that when executed by the at least one processor cause the at least one processor to perform operations comprising identifying a latest highest RSSI value Bluetooth beacon associated with a highest RSSI value from within a set of latest scanned Bluetooth beacons computing at least one average RSSI value for a predefined number of RSSI value detections associated with at least one Bluetooth beacon within a latest and previous set of scanned Bluetooth beacons wherein the at least one Bluetooth beacon is common in the set of latest scanned Bluetooth beacons and the previous set of scanned Bluetooth beacons identifying a highest average RSSI value Bluetooth beacon from within the latest and previous set of scanned Bluetooth beacons the highest average RSSI value Bluetooth beacon being associated with a highest average RSSI value within the at least one average RSSI value and selecting the nearest Bluetooth beacon from the set of latest scanned Bluetooth beacons and the previous set of scanned Bluetooth beacons based on the identifying of the latest highest RSSI value Bluetooth beacon and the identifying of the highest average RSSI value Bluetooth beacon.

In yet another embodiment a system for locating a nearest Bluetooth beacon within a plurality of Bluetooth beacons. The system includes a mobile device configured to identify a latest highest RSSI value Bluetooth beacon associated with a highest RSSI value from within a set of latest scanned Bluetooth beacons compute at least one average RSSI value for a predefined number of RSSI value detections associated with at least one Bluetooth beacon within a latest and previous set of scanned Bluetooth beacons wherein the at least one Bluetooth beacon is common in the set of latest scanned Bluetooth beacons and the previous set of scanned Bluetooth beacons identify a highest average RSSI value Bluetooth beacon from within the latest and previous set of scanned Bluetooth beacons the highest average RSSI value Bluetooth beacon being associated with a highest average RSSI value within the at least one average RSSI value and select the nearest Bluetooth beacon from the set of latest scanned Bluetooth beacons and the previous set of scanned Bluetooth beacons based on the identifying of the latest highest RSSI value Bluetooth beacon and the identifying of the highest average RSSI value Bluetooth beacon. The system further includes a server in communication with the mobile device configured to predict a set of possible nearest Bluetooth beacons based on Bluetooth beacon sequence data lost found beacon data and a set of detected nearest Bluetooth beacons when the latest highest RSSI value Bluetooth beacon is different from the highest average RSSI value Bluetooth beacon the Bluetooth beacon sequence data being representative of arrangement of the plurality of Bluetooth beacons.

In another embodiment a non transitory computer readable storage medium for locating a nearest Bluetooth beacon within a plurality of Bluetooth beacons when executed by a computing device cause the computing device to identify a latest highest RSSI value Bluetooth beacon associated with a highest RSSI value from within a set of latest scanned Bluetooth beacons compute at least one average RSSI value for a predefined number of RSSI value detections associated with at least one Bluetooth beacon within a latest and previous set of scanned Bluetooth beacons wherein the at least one Bluetooth beacon is common in the set of latest scanned Bluetooth beacons and the previous set of scanned Bluetooth beacons identify a highest average RSSI value Bluetooth beacon from within the latest and previous set of scanned Bluetooth beacons the highest average RSSI value Bluetooth beacon being associated with a highest average RSSI value within the at least one average RSSI value and select the nearest Bluetooth beacon from the set of latest scanned Bluetooth beacons and the previous set of scanned Bluetooth beacons based on the identifying of the latest highest RSSI value Bluetooth beacon and the identifying of the highest average RSSI value Bluetooth beacon.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

Exemplary embodiments are described with reference to the accompanying drawings. Wherever convenient the same reference numbers are used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts. While examples and features of disclosed principles are described herein modifications adaptations and other implementations are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosed embodiments. It is intended that the following detailed description be considered as exemplary only with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

Additional illustrative embodiments are listed below. In one embodiment an exemplary environment in which various embodiments may function is disclosed in . Environment includes a mobile device . Examples of a mobile device may include but are not limited to a cell phone a smart phone a tablet a phablet and a laptop. When a user of mobile device is moving around in an area for example a retail mall or a shopping center mobile device may interact with a plurality of Bluetooth beacons for example a Bluetooth beacon a Bluetooth beacon a Bluetooth beacon a Bluetooth beacon and a Bluetooth beacon . The plurality of Bluetooth beacons are placed within the premises of the area such that they create proximity zones based on their transmission power and these proximity zones are further mapped to premise locations. By way of an example Bluetooth beacon may be placed outside a provisional store. In this case when mobile device comes within close proximity of Bluetooth beacon and identify it as a nearest Bluetooth beacon mobile device may notify a server about nearest Bluetooth beacon identity and server may provide offers or coupons related to the provisional store to mobile device in order to attract attention of the user. By way of another example Bluetooth beacon may be place outside an electronic store. In this case identity of Bluetooth beacon can be used to notify server in order to enable server to provide offers related to electronic items in the electronic store to mobile device .

Each of the plurality of Bluetooth beacons communicate with mobile device using Bluetooth Low Energy BLE signal that includes a unique identifier for a particular Bluetooth beacon. By way of an example a unique ID may be 20 bytes long and is divided into three sections. These three sections include a proximity Universally Unique Identifier UUID of 16 bytes a major number of two bytes and a minor number of two bytes. A unique ID for example may be represented as c2d360a002a601315add1040f3913c300102. It will be apparent to a person skilled in the art that communication protocol used by the plurality of Bluetooth beacons is not limited to BLE and may be extended to any other Radio Frequency RF protocol.

Mobile device further communicates with server to share information regarding proximity zone of mobile device within the area based on communication established between mobile device and the plurality of Bluetooth beacons. Based on this proximity zone information which in turn is mapped to a location server may push contextual advertisements onto mobile device . By way of an example when the user of mobile device is standing near an electronic store and Bluetooth beacon is detected as being nearest to mobile device mobile device communicates this information to server . Accordingly in this example server may push advertisements related to Laptops of popular brands onto mobile device for consumption by the user. Server may communicate with a data repository to extract advertisement information based on the detected nearest Bluetooth beacon. Data repository stores mapping information of Bluetooth beacons to corresponding locations. Additionally server may also extract user specific information from data repository to push contextual advertisement to mobile device . The user specific information may include but is not limited to user s demographic data credit card expenditure information history of past purchases and user s interests and hobbies.

When the user is moving around within the area Bluetooth beacons that the mobile device detects may keep on changing. Thus the mobile device at a previous time instance would have detected a previous set of scanned Bluetooth beacons. However one or more Bluetooth beacons may be common in the set of latest scanned Bluetooth beacons and the previous set of scanned Bluetooth beacons. For example the previous set of scanned Bluetooth beacons includes Bluetooth beacon Bluetooth beacon and Bluetooth beacons . Thus in this example Bluetooth beacon is common in the set of latest scanned Bluetooth beacons and the previous set of scanned Bluetooth beacons. In an embodiment when the user is in the same proximity the set of latest scanned Bluetooth beacons is the same as the previous set of scanned Bluetooth beacons. In other words the mobile device detects the same Bluetooth beacons at two different time instants. In another embodiment the set of latest scanned Bluetooth beacons may be completely different from the previous set of scanned Bluetooth beacons. For example the previous set of scanned Bluetooth beacons may include Bluetooth beacon and Bluetooth beacon and the set of latest scanned Bluetooth beacons include Bluetooth beacon and Bluetooth beacon .

At the mobile device computes one or more average RSSI values for a predefined number of RSSI value detections associated with one or more Bluetooth beacon within the latest and previous set of scanned Bluetooth beacons. These RSSI value detections are made at predefined time intervals. For example the predefined time interval may be four seconds and the predefined number of RSSI detections may be four. In this case an RSSI detection is made after every four seconds till the total number of RSSI detections are four.

In an embodiment if the number of RSSI value detections for a Bluetooth beacon within the latest and previous set of scanned Bluetooth beacons is below the predefined number of RSSI value detections then average RSSI value for that Bluetooth beacon is not computed. In other words that Bluetooth beacon is not considered for further average RSSI value computations. In another embodiment average RSSI value is computed only for that Bluetooth beacon that is present in both the set of latest scanned Bluetooth beacons and the previous set of scanned Bluetooth beacons provided that the predefined number of RSSI value detections have been made for that Bluetooth beacon. In an embodiment an average RSSI value may be computed using arithmetic mean median geometric median mode geometric mean harmonic mean quadratic mean cubic mean generalized mean weighted mean truncated mean interquartile mean and winsorized mean.

The predefined number of RSSI value detections depends on the external parameters which for example may include but are not limited to arrangement of Bluetooth beacons signal interference and attenuations in signal strengths due to environmental factors. Thus based on these external parameters the number of RSSI value detections that the mobile device is required to take may increase or decrease. For example when external parameters are absent and there is no negative effect on determination of RSSI values the number of RSSI detections required may reduce. Alternately when external parameters have a negative effect on determination of RSSI values the number of RSSI detections required may increase.

At the mobile device identifies a highest average RSSI value Bluetooth beacon from within the latest and previous set of scanned Bluetooth beacons. The highest average RSSI value Bluetooth beacon has a highest average RSSI value within the one or more average RSSI values computed at .

As an example of methods performed at and the previous set of scanned Bluetooth beacons that are scanned at 0sec 4sec 8second includes Bluetooth beacon Bluetooth beacon and Bluetooth beacon . The set of latest scanned Bluetooth beacons scanned at 12second includes Bluetooth beacon Bluetooth beacon and Bluetooth beacon . The predefined number of RSSI value detections is fixed at four and the interval for RSSI detections is fixed at four seconds. In this case the mobile device determines three RSSI values for each of Bluetooth beacon Bluetooth beacon and Bluetooth beacons at 0sec 4th sec 8second. At the 12second the mobile device determines RSSI values for Bluetooth beacon Bluetooth beacon and Bluetooth beacon in the latest set of scanned Bluetooth beacons as Bluetooth beacon fails detection by the mobile device. Thereafter the mobile device determines the average RSSI value for one or more Bluetooth beacons which are represented in Table 1 

In this example average RSSI value is computed only for Bluetooth beacon and Bluetooth beacon . Average RSSI value is not computed for Bluetooth beacon as it is not detected in the set of latest scanned Bluetooth beacons. Additionally average RSSI value is not computed for Bluetooth beacon as the number of RSSI detections is less than the minimum number of RSSI detections i.e. 4. Thus in other words average RSSI value is not computed for a Bluetooth Beacon that is not present in the set of latest scanned Bluetooth beacons. Additionally average RSSI value is not computed for those Bluetooth beacons for which the minimum number of RSSI value detections has not been met.

Therefore in the set of latest scanned Bluetooth beacons Bluetooth beacon has the latest highest RSSI value i.e. 20 dB. Moreover in the latest and previous set of scanned Bluetooth beacons as well Bluetooth beacon has the highest average RSSI value i.e. 27.5 dB. As a result Bluetooth beacon is selected as the nearest Bluetooth beacon.

In an exemplary embodiment at any given time instance the mobile device may retain four adjacent RSSI value detections made at an interval of four seconds. As a continuation of the example above such retention of adjacent RSSI value detections may be represented by Table 2 at 16second and Table 3 at 20second 

Thus in Table 2 the RSSI value detection at 0second is dropped while the RSSI value detections at 4rth second 8second and 12second are retained along with the RSSI value detection at 16second. In this case Bluetooth beacon has the latest highest RSSI value i.e. 10 dB and Bluetooth beacon has the highest average RSSI value i.e. 35 dB. In this case different Bluetooth beacons have latest highest RSSI value and the highest average RSSI value. Moving on to RSSI value detection at 20second the RSSI value detections are represented in Table 3 

Thus in Table 3 the RSSI value detections at 0and 4second are dropped while the RSSI value detections at 8 12 and 16second are retained along with the RSSI value detection at 20second. In this case the set of latest scanned Bluetooth beacons only includes Bluetooth beacon . However Bluetooth beacon does not have four RSSI value detections which is the minimum number of RSSI value detections required to compute average RSSI value. Thus no nearest Bluetooth beacon is identified.

In another exemplary embodiment instead of retaining four adjacent RSSI value detections made at an interval of four seconds at any given time instant the mobile device flushes out every set of four adjacent RSSI value detections. In this scenario the flushing out of RSSI value detections may be represented by Table 4 at 16second. Table 4 given below is basically Table 2 from which RSSI value detections at 4 8 and 12second have been removed in addition to RSSI value detection at 0second.

Thus in this case Average RSSI values will be computed only after RSSI value detections have been made at 2024 and 28second so as to have four RSSI value detections. Thereafter these RSSI values are also flushed and RSSI value detections are made at 32 36 40 and 44second to again compute average RSSI values. It will be apparent to a person skilled in the art that the invention is not limited to the above mentioned methods of computing average RSSI values and may include various other variations and modifications of such methods.

Thereafter at a nearest Bluetooth beacon is selected from the set of latest scanned Bluetooth beacons and the previous set of scanned Bluetooth beacons. The nearest Bluetooth beacon is selected based on the identifying of the latest highest RSSI value Bluetooth beacon and the identifying of the highest average RSSI value Bluetooth beacon. In other words after the latest highest RSSI value Bluetooth beacon and the highest average RSSI value Bluetooth beacon have been identified this information is used to select the nearest Bluetooth beacon. In the above example in Table 1 Bluetooth beacon is identified both as the latest highest RSSI value Bluetooth beacon and the highest average RSSI value Bluetooth beacon as Bluetooth beacon has both the latest highest RSSI value i.e. 20 dB and the highest average RSSI value i.e. 27.5 dB.

In an embodiment when the latest highest RSSI value Bluetooth beacon is same as the highest average RSSI value Bluetooth beacon the latest highest RSSI value Bluetooth beacon is identified as the nearest Bluetooth beacon. By way of an example Bluetooth beacon is common in the set of latest scanned Bluetooth beacons and the previous set of scanned Bluetooth beacons. Moreover Bluetooth beacon when it was in the set of latest scanned Bluetooth beacons had the highest RSSI value i.e. 20 dB and when it was in the latest and previous set of scanned Bluetooth beacons had the highest average RSSI value i.e. 27.5 dB. Thus in this case Bluetooth beacon is selected as the nearest Bluetooth beacon. This is further explained in detail in conjunction with .

Alternatively when the latest highest RSSI value Bluetooth beacon is different from the highest average RSSI value Bluetooth beacon then a set of possible nearest Bluetooth beacons is predicted based on Bluetooth beacon sequence data lost found beacon data and a set of detected nearest Bluetooth beacons. However when the set of possible nearest Bluetooth beacons includes either each or none of the latest highest RSSI value Bluetooth beacon and the highest average RSSI value Bluetooth beacon which are different Bluetooth beacons the nearest Bluetooth beacon is predicted based on historical Bluetooth beacon data using machine learning techniques. This is further explained in conjunction with .

At a check is performed to determine whether the number of RSSI value detections for any Bluetooth beacon within the set of latest scanned Bluetooth beacons is equal to a predefined threshold. The predefined threshold is fixed such that the actual RSSI value of a given Bluetooth beacon can be accurately determined. The predefined threshold for example may be fixed at four RSSI detections. If the number of RSSI value detections for any Bluetooth beacon is equal to the predefined threshold then at the mobile device computes average RSSI values for one or more Bluetooth beacon within the latest and previous set of scanned Bluetooth beacons which have predefined number of RSSI value detections. This has been explained in detail in conjunction with . Thereafter at the mobile device identifies a highest average RSSI value Bluetooth beacon from within the latest and previous set of scanned Bluetooth beacons. With reference to the example given in Table 1 of Bluetooth beacon is identified as the Bluetooth beacon having the highest average RSSI value i.e. 27.5 dB.

At a check is performed to determine whether the latest highest RSSI value Bluetooth beacon identified at is same as the highest average RSSI value Bluetooth beacon. By way of an example latest RSSI value for Bluetooth beacon is the highest i.e. 20 dB and the average RSSI value for Bluetooth beacon is also the highest i.e. 27.5 dB. Thus in this case the latest highest RSSI value Bluetooth beacon and the highest average RSSI value Bluetooth beacon are the same i.e. Bluetooth beacon . If the latest highest RSSI value Bluetooth beacon and the highest average RSSI value Bluetooth beacon are the same at the latest highest RSSI value Bluetooth beacon is selected as the nearest Bluetooth beacon. With reference to the example given in Table 1 of as Bluetooth beacon has both the latest highest RSSI value as well as the highest average RSSI value thus Bluetooth beacon is selected as the nearest Bluetooth beacon for the mobile device.

However referring back to when the latest highest RSSI value Bluetooth beacon and the highest average RSSI value Bluetooth beacon are different the mobile device or a server at predicts a set of possible nearest Bluetooth beacons based on Bluetooth beacon sequence data lost found beacon data and a set of detected nearest Bluetooth beacons. The Bluetooth beacon sequence data is representative of arrangement of the plurality of Bluetooth beacons within the area. The Bluetooth beacon sequence data is also termed as the floor map data that includes actual physical placement of Bluetooth beacons within the given area.

The lost found data includes information associated with lost Bluetooth beacons and newly found Bluetooth beacons. A lost Bluetooth beacon is that which failed detection by a mobile device during subsequent scanning and a newly found Bluetooth beacon is that which was recently detected by the mobile device during scanning. Additionally the set of detected nearest Bluetooth beacons includes those Bluetooth beacons which have already been identified as nearest Bluetooth beacons by the mobile device or alternative by other mobile devices in the past moving along the same path as the mobile device.

Referring back to if the number of RSSI value detections for none of the Bluetooth beacons within the set of latest scanned Bluetooth beacons is equal to the predefined threshold then control goes to where the mobile device or the server predicts a set of possible nearest Bluetooth beacons based on Bluetooth beacon sequence data lost found beacon data and a set of detected nearest Bluetooth beacons.

Thereafter at a check is performed to determine if the lost found data is available. In other words it is determined whether the mobile device detects the same set of Bluetooth beacons time and again over a period of time. If the lost found data is not available then at the nearest Bluetooth beacon is predicted based on historical Bluetooth beacon data using machine learning techniques. Examples of the machine learning techniques may include but are not limited to decision forest support vector machine and regression model. The historical Bluetooth beacon data includes mapping of historical nearest Bluetooth beacons to corresponding latest RSSI values associated with each of the plurality of Bluetooth beacons. In an embodiment prediction is done based on the historical Bluetooth beacon data in conjunction with a latest scanned set of Bluetooth beacon data.

Referring back to if the lost found data is available then a check is performed at to determine whether the set of possible nearest Bluetooth beacons include the latest highest RSSI value Bluetooth beacon or the highest average RSSI value Bluetooth beacon. If the set of possible nearest Bluetooth beacons includes either of the latest highest RSSI value Bluetooth beacon or the highest average RSSI value Bluetooth beacon then at the latest highest RSSI value Bluetooth beacon or the highest average RSSI value Bluetooth beacon whichever is present in the set of possible nearest Bluetooth beacons is selected as the nearest Bluetooth beacon.

Referring back to if the set of possible nearest Bluetooth beacons does not include only one of the latest highest RSSI value Bluetooth beacon or the highest average RSSI value Bluetooth beacon which means that either it includes both or none of it then at the nearest Bluetooth beacon is predicted based on historical Bluetooth beacon data using machine learning techniques.

Thus the method is dynamic and accurate as it is not solely dependent on RSSI values thereby avoiding chances of erroneous detection of nearest Bluetooth beacons. Additionally a robust solution is provided that relies on storage and computational capability of a server to detect the nearest Bluetooth beacon. The accuracy of determination of the nearest Bluetooth beacon ultimately results in good customer experience.

Scan beacon module scans Bluetooth beacons and determines the RSSI values for each Bluetooth Beacon within a set of latest scanned Bluetooth beacons. Thereafter nearest beacon module identifies a latest highest RSSI value Bluetooth beacon from within the set of latest scanned Bluetooth beacons which has the highest RSSI value. When mobile device at a previous time interacted with a previous set of scanned Bluetooth beacons scan beacon module detected a predefined number of RSSI value detections associated with one or more Bluetooth beacon within the previous set of scanned Bluetooth beacons. Thereafter nearest beacon module computes one or more average RSSI values for the predefined number of RSSI value detections associated with the one or more Bluetooth beacon within the latest and previous set of scanned Bluetooth beacons.

Nearest beacon module identifies a highest average RSSI value Bluetooth beacon from within the latest and previous set of scanned Bluetooth beacons which has a highest average RSSI value. Thereafter nearest beacon module determines whether the latest highest RSSI value Bluetooth beacon and the highest average RSSI value beacon are the same. If they are same nearest beacon module selects the latest highest RSSI value Bluetooth beacon as the nearest Bluetooth beacon. This has been explained in detail in conjunction with .

However if the latest highest RSSI value Bluetooth beacon and the highest average RSSI value Bluetooth beacon are different then in an embodiment beacon sequence data mobile module may predict a set of possible nearest Bluetooth beacons based on Bluetooth beacon sequence data lost found beacon data and a set of detected nearest Bluetooth beacons. Alternatively mobile device may communicate information associated with the latest highest RSSI value Bluetooth beacon and the highest average RSSI value Bluetooth beacon to server through server communication module and a client communication module in server . Thereafter based on this information a beacon sequence data server module predicts a set of possible nearest Bluetooth beacons based on Bluetooth beacon sequence data lost found beacon data and a set of detected nearest Bluetooth beacons.

In case the set of possible nearest Bluetooth beacons includes the latest highest RSSI value Bluetooth beacon or the highest average RSSI value Bluetooth beacon then nearest beacon module selects either of the latest highest RSSI value Bluetooth beacon or the highest average RSSI value Bluetooth beacon whichever is present in the set of possible nearest Bluetooth beacon as the nearest Bluetooth beacon. This has been explained in detail in conjunction with . However in case the set of possible nearest Bluetooth beacons includes both the latest highest RSSI value Bluetooth beacon and the highest average RSSI value Bluetooth beacon. Further in case the set of possible nearest Bluetooth beacons does not include either of the latest highest RSSI value Bluetooth beacon or the highest average RSSI value Bluetooth beacon. In both the cases a prediction module predicts the nearest Bluetooth beacon based on historical Bluetooth beacon data using machine learning techniques. The historical Bluetooth beacon data includes mapping of historical nearest Bluetooth beacons to corresponding latest RSSI values associated with each of the plurality of Bluetooth beacons. This has been explained in conjunction with .

In an embodiment server may include an advertisement server to push contextual advertisements to mobile device based on selection of the nearest Bluetooth beacon. Server may also use user profile data to select contextual advertisements or information to be pushed to mobile device . Examples of such contextual advertisements have been explained earlier in conjunction with . It will be apparent to a person skilled in the art that the functionalities performed by various module of mobile device and server may be performed by one or more processors.

Processor may be disposed in communication with one or more input output I O devices via an I O interface . I O interface may employ communication protocols methods such as without limitation audio analog digital monoaural RCA stereo IEEE 1394 serial bus universal serial bus USB infrared PS 2 BNC coaxial component composite digital visual interface DVI high definition multimedia interface HDMI RF antennas S Video VGA IEEE 802.n b g n x Bluetooth cellular e.g. code division multiple access CDMA high speed packet access HSPA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE WiMax or the like etc.

Using I O interface computer system may communicate with one or more I O devices. For example an input device may be an antenna keyboard mouse joystick infrared remote control camera card reader fax machine dongle biometric reader microphone touch screen touchpad trackball sensor e.g. accelerometer light sensor GPS gyroscope proximity sensor or the like stylus scanner storage device transceiver video device source visors etc. An output device may be a printer fax machine video display e.g. cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display LCD light emitting diode LED plasma or the like audio speaker etc. In some embodiments a transceiver may be disposed in connection with processor . Transceiver may facilitate various types of wireless transmission or reception. For example transceiver may include an antenna operatively connected to a transceiver chip e.g. Texas Instruments WiLink WL1283 Broadcom BCM4750IUB8 Infineon Technologies X Gold 618 PMB9800 or the like providing IEEE 802.11a b g n Bluetooth FM global positioning system GPS 2G 3G HSDPA HSUPA communications etc.

In some embodiments processor may be disposed in communication with a communication network via a network interface . Network interface may communicate with communication network . Network interface may employ connection protocols including without limitation direct connect Ethernet e.g. twisted pair 50 500 5000 Base T transmission control protocol internet protocol TCP IP token ring IEEE 802.11a b g n x etc. Communication network may include without limitation a direct interconnection local area network LAN wide area network WAN wireless network e.g. using Wireless Application Protocol the Internet etc. Using network interface and communication network computer system may communicate with devices and . These devices may include without limitation personal computer s server s fax machines printers scanners various mobile devices such as cellular telephones smartphones e.g. Apple iPhone Blackberry Android based phones etc. tablet computers eBook readers Amazon Kindle Nook etc. laptop computers notebooks gaming consoles Microsoft Xbox Nintendo DS Sony PlayStation etc. or the like. In some embodiments computer system may itself embody one or more of these devices.

In some embodiments processor may be disposed in communication with one or more memory devices e.g. RAM ROM etc. via a storage interface . Storage interface may connect to memory devices including without limitation memory drives removable disc drives etc. employing connection protocols such as serial advanced technology attachment SATA integrated drive electronics IDE IEEE 1394 universal serial bus USB fiber channel small computer systems interface SCSI etc. The memory drives may further include a drum magnetic disc drive magneto optical drive optical drive redundant array of independent discs RAID solid state memory devices solid state drives etc.

Memory devices may store a collection of program or database components including without limitation an operating system a user interface application a web browser a mail server a mail client a user application data e.g. any data variables or data records discussed in this disclosure etc. Operating system may facilitate resource management and operation of the computer system . Examples of operating system include without limitation Apple Macintosh OS X Unix Unix like system distributions e.g. Berkeley Software Distribution BSD FreeBSD NetBSD OpenBSD etc. Linux distributions e.g. Red Hat Ubuntu Kubuntu etc. IBM OS 2 Microsoft Windows XP Vista 7 8 etc. Apple iOS Google Android Blackberry OS or the like. User interface may facilitate display execution interaction manipulation or operation of program components through textual or graphical facilities. For example user interfaces may provide computer interaction interface elements on a display system operatively connected to computer system such as cursors icons check boxes menus scrollers windows widgets etc. Graphical user interfaces GUIs may be employed including without limitation Apple Macintosh operating systems Aqua IBM OS 2 Microsoft Windows e.g. Aero Metro etc. Unix X Windows web interface libraries e.g. ActiveX Java Javascript AJAX HTML Adobe Flash etc. or the like.

In some embodiments computer system may implement web browser stored program component. Web browser may be a hypertext viewing application such as Microsoft Internet Explorer Google Chrome Mozilla Firefox Apple Safari etc. Secure web browsing may be provided using HTTPS secure hypertext transport protocol secure sockets layer SSL Transport Layer Security TLS etc. Web browsers may utilize facilities such as AJAX DHTML Adobe Flash JavaScript Java application programming interfaces APIs etc. In some embodiments computer system may implement mail server stored program component. Mail server may be an Internet mail server such as Microsoft Exchange or the like. The mail server may utilize facilities such as ASP ActiveX ANSI C C Microsoft .NET CGI scripts Java JavaScript PERL PHP Python WebObjects etc. The mail server may utilize communication protocols such as internet message access protocol IMAP messaging application programming interface MAPI Microsoft Exchange post office protocol POP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP or the like. In some embodiments computer system may implement mail client stored program component. Mail client may be a mail viewing application such as Apple Mail Microsoft Entourage Microsoft Outlook Mozilla Thunderbird etc.

In some embodiments computer system may store user application data such as the data variables records etc. as described in this disclosure. Such databases may be implemented as fault tolerant relational scalable secure databases such as Oracle or Sybase. Alternatively such databases may be implemented using standardized data structures such as an array hash linked list struct structured text file e.g. XML table or as object oriented databases e.g. using ObjectStore Poet Zope etc. . Such databases may be consolidated or distributed sometimes among the various computer systems discussed above in this disclosure. It is to be understood that the structure and operation of the any computer or database component may be combined consolidated or distributed in any working combination.

It will be appreciated that for clarity purposes the above description has described embodiments of the invention with reference to different functional units and processors. However it will be apparent that any suitable distribution of functionality between different functional units processors or domains may be used without detracting from the invention. For example functionality illustrated to be performed by separate processors or controllers may be performed by the same processor or controller. Hence references to specific functional units are only to be seen as references to suitable means for providing the described functionality rather than indicative of a strict logical or physical structure or organization.

Various embodiments disclose methods and systems for locating nearest Bluetooth beacons. A latest highest RSSI value Bluetooth beacon associated with a highest RSSI value is identified from within a set of latest scanned Bluetooth beacons. Thereafter one or more average RSSI values is computed for one or more Bluetooth beacons within a latest and previous set of scanned Bluetooth beacons and a highest average RSSI value Bluetooth beacon is identified from within the latest and previous set of scanned Bluetooth beacons. Based on identification of the latest highest RSSI value Bluetooth beacon and the highest average RSSI value Bluetooth beacon the nearest Bluetooth beacon is selected. This method is a robust solution as it relies on storage and computational capability of a server to detect the nearest Bluetooth beacon. Moreover the method is dynamic and accurate as it is not solely dependent on RSSI values thereby avoiding chances of erroneous detection of a nearest Bluetooth beacon. The accuracy of determination of the nearest Bluetooth beacon results in good customer experience.

The specification has described methods and system for locating nearest Bluetooth beacons. The illustrated steps are set out to explain the exemplary embodiments shown and it should be anticipated that ongoing technological development will change the manner in which particular functions are performed. These examples are presented herein for purposes of illustration and not limitation. Further the boundaries of the functional building blocks have been arbitrarily defined herein for the convenience of the description. Alternative boundaries can be defined so long as the specified functions and relationships thereof are appropriately performed. Alternatives including equivalents extensions variations deviations etc. of those described herein will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s based on the teachings contained herein. Such alternatives fall within the scope and spirit of the disclosed embodiments.

Furthermore one or more computer readable storage media may be utilized in implementing embodiments consistent with the present disclosure. A computer readable storage medium refers to any type of physical memory on which information or data readable by a processor may be stored. Thus a computer readable storage medium may store instructions for execution by one or more processors including instructions for causing the processor s to perform steps or stages consistent with the embodiments described herein. The term computer readable medium should be understood to include tangible items and exclude carrier waves and transient signals i.e. be non transitory. Examples include random access memory RAM read only memory ROM volatile memory nonvolatile memory hard drives CD ROMs DVDs flash drives disks and any other known physical storage media.

It is intended that the disclosure and examples be considered as exemplary only with a true scope and spirit of disclosed embodiments being indicated by the following claims.

