---

title: Uniform search, navigation and combination of heterogeneous data
abstract: A unified interface that abstracts the underlying differences among heterogeneous data sources and data formats to produce uniform search results. While the result of an initial search may be exactly what the user was seeking, it is likely that the result is in the neighborhood of what was sought. It may aid the end user to provide guided data navigation suggestions to locate related data during data exploration, by providing analysis to identify data similarities among disparate data sources, and by providing guided combination options. The guided data navigation suggestions may include suggestions based on schematic, semantic, and social information. Guided data navigation may aid the user in moving from the initial search landing point in the data to the precise result sought.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09569506&OS=09569506&RS=09569506
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09569506
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151207
---
The disclosure relates generally to data retrieval systems and more specifically to a method computer program and computer system for searching navigating and combining large numbers of heterogeneous data sources with varying data characteristics. Examples of heterogeneous data sources may be found in for example U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 070 193 entitled AGGREGATING SEARCH RESULTS BASED ON ASSOCIATING DATA INSTANCES WITH KNOWLEDGE BASE ENTITIES filed on Mar. 23 2011 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 070 238 entitled ANNOTATING SCHEMA ELEMENTS BASED ON ASSOCIATING DATA INSTANCES WITH KNOWLEDGE BASE ENTITIES filed on Mar. 23 2011 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 491 724 entitled LINKING DATA ELEMENTS BASED ON SIMILARITY OF DATA VALUES AND SEMANTIC ANNOTATIONS filed on Jul. 8 2012 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 543 872 entitled LINKING DATA ELEMENTS BASED ON SIMILARITY OF DATA VALUES AND SEMANTIC ANNOTATIONS filed on Jul. 8 2012 are hereby incorporated by reference.

Businesses accumulate massive amounts of data from a variety of sources and employ an increasing number of heterogeneous distributed and often legacy data sources to store them. Although many data sources are available navigating the large amounts of data in multiple data sources and correlating those heterogeneous sources with all the relevant data a user is interested in obtaining can be a difficult process. Searching and combining information across these heterogeneous data sources and varying data types requires users to be highly technical and understand how to use relevant query languages for each data source and then manually merge results.

Keyword searches are a popular way of finding information on the Internet. However a keyword search can be undesirable in business contexts. For example a business analyst of a technology company may be interested in analyzing the company s records for customers in the healthcare industry. Given keyword search functionality the analyst might issue a healthcare customers query over a large number of data sources. Although the search will return results that use the word healthcare or some derivative thereof the search would not return for example Entity A even though Entity A is a company in the healthcare industry. The search would also fail to provide a connection between Entity A and Subsidiary B even though the former acquired the latter. As data increases in size and complexity and as the number of data sources multiply a simple keyword based search will provide far more results than are easily managed.

It would be desirable to increase the usefulness of retrieved data in a search. The usefulness of data can be increased when the data is placed into proper context and interrelated.

Embodiments of the present invention disclose a method computer program product and system for unified search and navigation of heterogeneous data sources. A search keyword is received from a user interface. A plurality of heterogeneous data sources is searched utilizing the search keyword wherein the plurality of heterogeneous data sources include data in a variety of data formats. An abstract is formed of the variety of data formats of the heterogeneous data sources and present the abstract of the variety of data formats in a uniform data format. A first data set is sent in the uniform data format to the user interface wherein the first data set comprises a search result from searching the heterogeneous data sources. A first indicator is received from the user interface identifying a selected search result selected from the first data set. A second data set is sent in the uniform data format to the user interface wherein the second data set comprises a data sample and wherein the data sample corresponds to the selected search result selected from the first data set. A second indicator is received from the user interface identifying a selected data sample to save wherein the selected data sample is selected from the second data set. A third data set is sent to the user interface wherein the third data set comprises a named representation of the selected data sample. A plurality of third indicators is received from the user interface identifying a plurality of selected third data sets to combine. A fourth data set is sent to the user interface in the uniform data format wherein the fourth data set comprises a guided combination option for the plurality of selected third data sets. A fourth indicator is received from the user interface identifying a selected guided combination option selected from the fourth data set to utilize in combining the plurality of selected third data sets. A fifth data set is sent to the user interface in the uniform data format wherein the fifth data set comprises a combination data sample from the plurality of selected third data sets utilizing the selected guided combination option selected from the fourth data set. A fifth indicator is received from the user interface identifying a selected combination data sample to save wherein the selected combination data sample is selected from the fifth data set. A sixth data set is sent to the user interface wherein the sixth data set comprises a named representation of the selected combination data sample.

Embodiments of the present invention recognize the difficulty accessing the vast amounts of data available in heterogeneous data sources by non technical end users. Embodiments of the present invention allow the end user to focus on the exploration of data rather than on the complexities of heterogeneous data sources incompatible data formats and query languages. End users need to access data from sources with various formats ranging from simple spreadsheet text files to XML files with no given schema metadata information that describes instances and elements in the data to relational and resource description framework RDF data that conform to a given well defined schema without knowledge about the properties of the data.

Embodiments of the present invention present the end user a unified interface that abstracts the underlying differences among these heterogeneous data sources and data formats to produce uniform search results. While there is a chance that the result of an initial search is precisely what the user was seeking it is perhaps more likely that the result is in the neighborhood of what was sought. Embodiments of the present invention may aid the end user by providing guided data navigation suggestions to locate related data during data exploration by providing analysis to identify data similarities among disparate data sources and by providing guided combination options. The guided data navigation suggestions may include but are not limited to suggestions based on schematic semantic and social information. Guided data navigation may aid the user in moving from the initial search landing point in the data to the precise result sought.

The end user interface for guided data exploration may include but is not limited to data samples aggregated to summarize the selected search results to aid the user in deciding if they have found what they are looking for suggestions for other fields in the same category as the current data sample suggestions of adjacent data fields that might be of interest suggestions of other categories with similar data as the current data sample and other resources within the system that might be of interest. Selecting any suggestion may present the end user with new guided data exploration information for the suggested item complete with new data samples and appropriate new suggestions.

There may be searches where the complete set of results spans multiple heterogeneous data sources. Embodiments of this invention may address such searches by providing the end user a unified interface that allows data from multiple heterogeneous data sources to be interrelated without regard to the properties of those data sources. Guided combination may aid the end user in determining which data sources to combine by presenting an analysis of data similarities among the heterogeneous data sources. Embodiments of the present invention may determine the data similarities based on schematic links within a single data source or based on semantic links across multiple heterogeneous data sources. The end user interface for guided combination may include but is not limited to a display of data fields from each of the data sources selected by the user along with the similarity measure analyzed for each data field. For example if two data sources were selected to be analyzed and both data sources include data fields containing New York an exemplary measure for the similarity of the exact match may be 100 100 or 1. On the other hand if one data source s data field contains New York City instead the similarity measure would be lower than that of an exact match. Embodiments of the present invention may limit the number of data fields displayed in order to present the user with only those data fields that have passed a similarity threshold value determined to produce good combination results. Similarity analysis may be determined by for example but is not limited to text similarity as in the above example geospatial similarity for data containing geospatial markers or time period similarity for data containing time markers.

Embodiments of the present invention enable the end user to iteratively save multiple search results during guided data exploration as well as iteratively save multiple combined results during guided combination until a final combined result contains all the relevant data the user may be interested in obtaining.

Referring to a data processing system according to an embodiment of the invention is illustrated and discussed below. The data processing system contains a network which is the medium used to provide communication links between various data sources one or more end user devices and computers connected together within and without data processing system . The network may include connections such as wire wireless communication links or fiber optic cables. The data processing system also may be implemented as a number of different types of networks such as an intranet a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN . is intended as an example and not as an architectural limitation for the different embodiments.

A Uniform Search Navigation and Combination module USNC located in the data processing system may be stored on one or more computer readable storage devices and may run on a server . The USNC may be for example a computer program or program component for providing a uniform search navigation and combining of heterogeneous data to a user interface according to embodiments of the present invention. The USNC may include but is not limited to a Guided Exploration module and a Guided Combination module . The USNC may be localized on one server for example the server and or distributed between two or more servers.

As shown in a Data Preprocessor prepares both the internal data sources and the external data sources for analysis and may maintain a catalog of the available internal and external data sources. Such data sources may contain data of different formats such as text relational databases and XML. The data may further have widely varying characteristics including for example a large number of small records and a small number of large records. In an embodiment of the present invention Data Preprocessor may also take advantage of the external data sources with application programming interfaces APIs that support different query languages. Users may furthermore add additional data sources as needed.

The Data Preprocessor may provide other components in the data processing system with a common access mechanism for the data sources . For the internal data sources the Data Preprocessor may provide a level of indexing and analysis that depends on the type of data source. Indexing and caching may be bypassed for the external data sources to allow fresh data to be retrieved from the external data sources as needed. For the internal data sources schema information may be stored and indexed by the Data Preprocessor . For legacy data sources with no given or well defined schema as well as semi structured or schema free data the Data Preprocessor may perform schema discovery and analysis. In the case of relational data sources the Data Preprocessor may pick a sample of instance values for each column of a table and issue them as queries to the external data sources to gather possible senses i.e. extended data type and semantic information of the instance values of the column. The result may be a set of tags associated with each column along with a confidence value for the tag. Continuing with the healthcare example described above Entity A may be associated with the type Company or the type Healthcare Industry or another type from an external data source . Depending on the implementation more than one type may be associated with each instance and multiple types may either be represented as a set or in some hierarchical or graphical structure.

In addition to schema information the Data Preprocessor may create a full text index across all internal data sources . Different indexing strategies may be used depending on the data source characteristics. For a relational data source for example depending on the data characteristics and value distributions the indexing may be performed over rows where values are indexed and the primary key of their tuples are stored or over columns where values are indexed and columns of their relations are stored.

The data processing system may further include a Federated Query Builder a Schema and Data Guide a Sample Manipulator and a Linkage Guide . The Federated Query Builder may be for example a computer program or program component for issuing queries for text searches using an inverted index of data values to the internal data sources issuing queries as APIs to the external data sources consolidating and analyzing a potentially large and heterogeneous set of query results retrieved from several data sources . In addition to retrieving data related to the text search the Federated Query Builder may issue additional queries to the external data sources to gain additional information about unknown data instances returned from the text search. The Federated Query Builder may further rank records returned from the text search based on attribute tags e.g. senses created by the Data Preprocessor .

The Schema and Data Guide may be for example a computer program or program component for determining similarity among records returned from the text search using both schematic and semantic differences. The Schema and Data Guide may use this similarity to determine which additional fields may produce meaningful search results across instances from both the internal data sources and the external data sources using attribute tags e.g. senses created by the Data Preprocessor and the Federated Query Builder .

The Sample Manipulator may be for example a computer program or program component for creating data subsets and data combinations across both the internal data sources and the external data sources using attribute tags e.g. senses created by the Data Preprocessor and the Federated Query Builder .

The Linkage Guide may be for example a computer program or program component for determining which data fields may produce meaningful results when search results are combined. The Linkage Guide may utilize both schematic and semantic links created by the Data Preprocessor and the Federated Query Builder .

The USNC may communicate with the end user through a User Interface . The User Interface communicates across the network with a Graphical User Interface . The Graphical User Interface may include but is not limited to a web application or a stand alone application producing screen images to the end user s device. The USNC further connects to the Federated Query Builder to perform a text search across multiple heterogeneous data sources simultaneously to order the search results based on relevance and to further query relevant data sources . The USNC further connects to the Schema and Data Guide to identify similarity among data fields to the Sample Manipulator to create useful data samples and to the Linkage Guide to identify data fields that may produce meaningful results when combined.

Now referring to which illustrate examples of GUI screen images presented to the end user during guided data exploration in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. These exemplary GUI screen images may be rendered to the end user by for example the GUI . These examples and figures are illustrative rather than limiting.

Now referring to a flowchart illustrates steps performed by the USNC and more specifically by the Guided Exploration module within the data processing environment of . The steps of the flowchart illustrate the uniform search navigation and saving of heterogeneous data in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. The flowchart will be described in detail below in conjunction with continuous reference to and . Embodiments of the present invention may provide the end user a unified data exploration experience across multiple heterogeneous data sources and multiple data formats. Embodiments of the present invention may facilitate data exploration by allowing the end user to navigate forward and backward through search requests search results data samples and navigation suggestions until the desired data samples have been found. According to an embodiment of the present invention the Guided Exploration module at receives search keywords from the end user as discussed above with reference to through the user interface . The text search keywords as discussed above with reference to are an illustration only and do not limit the initial search to text search keywords. The Guided Exploration module communicates the received search keywords with the Federated Query Builder where the end user s search keywords may be searched across the heterogeneous data sources and a variety of data formats. Domain specific queries and category specific queries may be performed. In most cases more than one query type or set of key terms may be identified by the Federated Query Builder and searches may be based on both schema and instance data. The Federated Query Builder may return a ranked list of possible interpretations of the end user s search keywords . The Guided Exploration module at may send the ranked list of interpretations along with an aggregation and visualization of the search results to the user interface . The search results sent to the user interface may be uniform regardless of underlying data format and may be sorted based on but not limited to the data source the specific text matched or the details of the match thus allowing the end user multiple ways of aggregating the search results for different attributes and data types. From here the end user may at select a search result e.g. from the results table to investigate further by pressing the DETAILS button on the results screen. Alternatively the end user may initiate a new search with new search keywords pressing the SEARCH button .

The Guided Exploration module at receives a first indicator resulting from the DETAILS button being pressed on the results screen. The first indicator received from the user interface may identify a search result e.g. that the end user selects to investigate further. The Guided Exploration module communicates the selected search result to the Schema and Data Guide and to the Sample Manipulator . The Schema and Data Guide may determine similarity of the selected search result with other data for guided data navigation suggestions based on schematic and semantic links within a data source or across data sources . The Sample Manipulator may subset the search result based on the end user s selected search result to create a manageable useful data sample. The Guided Exploration module at may send to the user interface a data sample created for the selected search result as well as guided data navigation suggestions to related data. The guided data navigation suggestions may be based on similarity measures returned from the Schema and Data Guide for the selected search result The data sample and guided data navigation suggestions sent to the user interface may be uniform regardless of underlying data format.

As discussed above with reference to the end user may at choose to explore new data samples by selecting a guided navigation suggestion or choose to continue with the current data sample . At the end user may chose to save the current data sample by pressing the SAVE button on the details screen or the end user may alternatively choose at to return to the results screen by pressing the RETURN button on the details screen. Returning to the results screen may allow the end user to explore additional search results or begin a new search. The Guided Exploration module at may receive a second indicator identifying the data sample to be saved when the end user presses the SAVE button on the details screen. The end user may be prompted for a name and the named representation of the data sample saved on the shelf as discussed above with reference to making it available for future use.

Now referring to which illustrate examples of GUI screen images presented to the end user during guided combination in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. These exemplary GUI screen images may be rendered to the end user by for example the GUI . These examples and figures are illustrative rather than limiting.

In the present example the end user has set the selection indicators on for discriminating field sets CUST NAME Name and CUST INDUSTRY Industry as the guided combination options from which to combine the saved data samples . The end user may then press the COMBINE button to create a combination data sample as discussed below in reference to

Now referring to a flowchart illustrates steps performed by the USNC and more specifically by the Guided Combination module within the data processing environment of . The steps of the flowchart illustrate the uniform guided combination of heterogeneous saved data samples as discussed above in reference to and or saved combination data samples as discussed above in reference to and saving of heterogeneous combination data samples in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. The flowchart will be described in detail below in conjunction with continuous reference to and . Embodiments of the present invention may provide the end user with a unified data combination experience across multiple heterogeneous data sources and multiple data formats. Embodiments of the present invention may facilitate data combination by allowing the end user to navigate forward and backward through various data combination options and combination data samples until the desired combination data sample has been found.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the Guided Combination module at may receive a third indicator through the user interface identifying saved data samples or saved combination data samples the end user selected to combine as discussed above with reference to . The Guided Combination module may communicate with the Linkage Guide to identify which data fields among the end user selected saved data samples or saved combination data samples may produce meaningful results when combined. Meaningful results may be based on geospatial similarity for data containing geospatial markers or time period similarity for data containing time markers. The Guided Combination module at may send a ranked list of guided combination options based on similarity to the user interface . In one embodiment the list of guided combination options may be truncated based on a similarity threshold. The Guided Combination module may also send a similarity measure within the guided combination options table . The guided combination options table sent to the user interface may be uniform regardless of heterogeneous data sources or underlying data format.

The end user may then choose at to further examine the selected saved data samples and or saved combination data samples by selecting one or more guided combination options from the options table and pressing the COMBINE button on the combination options screen. Alternatively the end user may return to the home screen by pressing the RETURN button . The Guided Combination module at may receive a fourth indicator from the user interface identifying the end user s selection of one or more guided combination options . The Guided Combination module may communicate with the Sample Manipulator to create a combination data sample based on the end user s selection of guided combination options . The Guided combination module at may send the created combination data sample to the user interface . The combination data sample sent to the user interface may be uniform regardless of heterogeneous data sources or underlying data format.

As discussed above with reference to the end user may at choose to explore new combination data samples by pressing the RETURN button to return to the combination options screen or choose to save the current combination data sample by pressing the SAVE button . The Guided Combination module at may receive a fifth indicator identifying the combination data sample to be saved. The end user may be prompted for a name and the named representation of the combination data sample saved on shelf as discussed above with reference to alongside saved data samples which were saved during guided data exploration making the saved combination data sample available for future use.

Thereby in the embodiments of the present invention as discussed above one or more methods for unified search and navigation of heterogeneous data sources is described. The embodiments may form an abstract of the variety of data formats included in the heterogeneous data sources for the end user in order to send a uniform data format to the user interface .

The search keyword embodied as search entry may be received from a user interface as in step of method resulting in a search of the heterogeneous data sources utilizing the received search keyword. The search result in the uniform data format may be sent to the user interface as a first data set as in step of method .

When the end user selects a search result to further explore such as in a first indicator may be received from the user interface as in step of method identifying a search result to further explore in . A second data set including a data sample and a guided navigation suggestion corresponding to the search result to further explore may be sent to the user interface in the uniform data format as in step of method .

When the data sample includes the data the end user requires a second indicator may be received from the user interface as in step of method identifying a data sample the end user wishes to save. A third data set including a named representation corresponding to the data sample the end user wishes to save may be sent to the user interface to place on the home page shelf as in step of method .

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention are described above with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

Server is operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with computer system server include but are not limited to personal computer systems server computer systems thin clients thick clients hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputer systems mainframe computer systems and distributed data processing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Server may be described in the general context of computer system executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer system. Generally program modules may include routines programs objects components logic data structures and so on that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Server may be practiced in distributed data processing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed data processing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer system storage media including memory storage devices.

Server is shown in in the form of a general purpose computing device. The components of computer system server may include but are not limited to one or more processors or processing units a system memory and a bus that couples various system components including system memory to processor .

Bus represents one or more of any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus an accelerated graphics port and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus.

Computer system server typically includes a variety of computer system readable media. Such media may be any available media that is accessible by computer system server and it includes both volatile and non volatile media removable and non removable media.

System memory can include computer system readable media in the form of volatile memory such as random access memory RAM and or cache memory . Computer system server may further include other removable non removable volatile non volatile computer system storage media. By way of example only storage system can be provided for reading from and writing to a non removable non volatile magnetic media not shown and typically called a hard drive . Although not shown a magnetic disk drive for reading from and writing to a removable non volatile magnetic disk e.g. a floppy disk and an optical disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable non volatile optical disk such as a CD ROM DVD ROM or other optical media can be provided. In such instances each can be connected to bus by one or more data media interfaces. As will be further depicted and described below memory may include at least one program product having a set e.g. at least one of program modules that are configured to carry out the functions of embodiments of the invention.

Program utility having a set at least one of program modules may be stored in memory by way of example and not limitation as well as an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data. Each of the operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data or some combination thereof may include an implementation of a networking environment. Program modules generally carry out the functions and or methodologies of embodiments of the invention as described herein.

Computer system server may also communicate with one or more external devices such as a keyboard a pointing device a display etc. one or more devices that enable a user to interact with computer system server and or any devices e.g. network card modem etc. that enable computer system server to communicate with one or more other computing devices. Such communication can occur via Input Output I O interfaces . Still yet computer system server can communicate with one or more networks such as a local area network LAN a general wide area network WAN and or a public network e.g. the Internet via network adapter . As depicted network adapter communicates with the other components of computer system server via bus . It should be understood that although not shown other hardware and or software components could be used in conjunction with computer system server . Examples include but are not limited to microcode device drivers redundant processing units external disk drive arrays RAID systems tape drives and data archival storage systems etc.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

The descriptions of the various embodiments of the present invention have been presented for purposes of illustration but are not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the embodiments disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the described embodiments. The terminology used herein was chosen to best explain the principles of the embodiments the practical application or technical improvement over technologies found in the marketplace or to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the embodiments disclosed herein.

