---

title: Optical phased array using guided resonance with backside reflectors
abstract: Methods and systems for controlling the phase of electromagnetic waves are disclosed. A device can consist of a guided resonance grating layer, a spacer, and a reflector. A plurality of devices, arranged in a grid pattern, can control the phase of reflected electromagnetic phase, through refractive index control. Carrier injection, temperature control, and optical beams can be applied to control the refractive index.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09482887&OS=09482887&RS=09482887
owner: CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
number: 09482887
owner_city: Pasadena
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150730
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 032 327 filed on Aug. 1 2014 the disclosure of both of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with government support under DE SC0001293 T 107198 awarded by the Department of Energy. The government has certain rights in the invention. The invention described herein was made in the performance of work under a NASA contract and is subject to the provisions of Public Law 96 517 35 USC 202 in which the Contractor has elected to retain title.

The present disclosure relates to optical phased arrays. More particularly it relates to optical phased array using guided resonance with backside reflectors.

In a first aspect of the disclosure a device to control phase of electromagnetic waves is described the device comprising a resonance layer capable of sustaining a guided resonance of electromagnetic waves a reflector layer and a spacer layer between the reflector layer and the resonance layer.

In a second aspect of the disclosure a method to control phase of electromagnetic waves is described the method comprising providing an array of devices arranged in a grid pattern each device comprising a resonance layer capable of sustaining a guided resonance of electromagnetic waves a reflector layer and a spacer layer between the reflector layer and the resonance layer calculating a desired phase pattern for electromagnetic waves reflected by the array controlling the refractive index of each device according to the desired phase pattern.

Phased array optics PAO are directed at controlling the phase of electromagnetic or light waves transmitting or reflecting from a two dimensional surface. This control is achieved through adjustable surface elements. By dynamically controlling the optical properties of a surface on a microscopic scale it is possible to steer the direction of light beams or the view direction of sensors. Phased array beam steering can be used for example for optical switching and multiplexing in optoelectronic devices and for aiming laser beams on a macroscopic scale.

For example if a beam of light is transmitted across a specific area phased array optics can comprise a way to control the phase of the light waves in different regions of that specific area. In some applications each region of that specific area can be termed as a pixel. Through this control the output light beam can be adjusted to different conditions. For example a light beam such as a laser beam could be transmitted through atmospheric disturbances that can negatively impact the beam characteristics. By controlling the phase of the light waves the beam can be adjusted so that the negative influence of atmospheric disturbances can be reduced or negated.

Optical phased arrays OPAs are a versatile platform for many applications including for example beam steering adaptive optics Fourier optics and holography. In an optical phased array each pixel element individually controls the phase of the electromagnetic waves propagating in free space or in a medium. Commercially available OPAs rely on phase modulators based on liquid crystals LC however the slow response of LCs bounds the operational speed of such phase modulators to less than kHz frequencies. Standard micro electro mechanical systems MEMS enable a slightly higher operation speed typically less than MHz frequency see Ref. but can involve a complex device design which can make such systems less suitable for mass production of the OPA devices.

The phase modulation scheme described in the present disclosure utilizes phase delay accompanied by a resonance. The cross sectional schematic of one embodiment of the device described in the present disclosure is depicted in . In a sub wavelength grating which possesses a guided resonance sits on a metal reflector separated by a silicon dioxide layer for example a 3 micron silicon dioxide layer. In the embodiment of the grating comprises sections of Si with a height of 481 nm a width of 446.5 nm and a spacing of 732 nm. In other embodiments the dimensions of the grating may be adjusted according to the desired electromagnetic resonance.

In some embodiments different materials may be used compared to the example of . For example the reflector may be a metal or a non metallic material. The main property of the reflector is its ability to reflect electromagnetic waves therefore any structure that possesses this property may be used. For example instead of a continuous metallic layer a reflector may consist in a grating for example a Si grating tuned to reflect the electromagnetic waves. For example a sub wavelength grating made of high refractive index materials may be used in some embodiments. Broadband ultra high reflectivity gratings may be used.

In some embodiments the spacer layer may comprise different materials instead of silicon dioxide. The spacer layer may even consist of air with the beams of the grating suspended at each end. For example as visible in as side view and top view the beams of the grating may be suspended at each end to a side structure for example a Si structure with a reflector at the bottom.

In the embodiment of the sub wavelength grating supports even symmetric guided modes see Ref. therefore a 0.5 tilted off axis plane wave with a transverse magnetic TM polarization can be used as an incident wave with a wavelength of around 1.55 um. In this example the magnetic field is orthogonal to the direction of propagation of the electromagnetic wave.

By placing an external metal reflector underneath the grating with an appropriate separation length typically longer than a wavelength of light it is expected that the reflected amplitude is constant regardless of the guided resonance while the reflected phase change becomes dispersive about 2 because of the coupling with the guided resonance inside the sub wavelength grating. The modulation of the phase can be done by tuning the frequency of the guided resonance by means of refractive index tuning of grating materials see Ref. . For instance in the case of silicon as a material choice for grating bars the carrier injection method see Ref. or thermo optic effect will be able to efficiently tune the resonance.

For the refractive index tuning of the grating material different methods may be employed. For example a current may be injected in the grating to change its refractive index. The current may be injected in the longitudinal direction of the beams of the grating or it may be injected perpendicularly to the longitudinal direction of the beams of the grating. Therefore the current may be in plane or perpendicularly to the plane of the grating layer. In some embodiments the current may be injected using transparent conductive materials for example indium tin oxide ITO .

For example referring to a current may be injected in the grating through a top and bottom transparent ITO electrode layers . The structure may also comprise a spacer such as for example silicon dioxide or air and a reflector such as for example a metal layer or a reflecting Si grating layer. Many different materials may be used for the grating as long as they enable use of a guided resonance. For example Si or SiN may be used.

The resonance of the grating may be controlled through a voltage current injection . Other methods comprise temperature control and optical control. Either through the control of temperature or the application of for example a laser beam to the grating the resonance may be controlled through the control of the refractive index. The refractive index can be controlled through the regulation of the charge carrier density.

Using rigorous coupled wave analysis RCWA simulations reflectivity spectra as well as the reflection phase as a function of wavelength can be calculated for the two cases with and without the backside reflector as shown in . Rigorous coupled wave analysis RCWA is a semi analytical method in computational electromagnetics that can be applied to solve scattering from periodic dielectric structures. It is a Fourier space method so devices and fields are represented as a sum of spatial harmonics. For the case with backside reflector while the reflectivity is kept constant around the guided resonance frequency the reflected phase acquires a 2 differential as expected. The phase modulation can be reasonably realized via index modulation of high index materials thus enabling high speed modulation with very high bandwidth in the hundreds MHz. By placing such a phase modulator in a two dimensional fashion OPAs working at a very high speeds can be realized.

In the examples above in the present disclosure a grating of longitudinal beams has been described as an example. However it is intended that any structure capable of sustaining a guided resonance may also be used. For example gratings different from longitudinal beams may be used.

In some embodiments a desired phase pattern for electromagnetic waves reflected by an array of the devices can be realized by controlling the refractive index of each device of the array. In some embodiments the incident phase can also be measured prior to applying the phase control through the array. In other embodiments the phase may be already known or estimated therefore no measurement may be necessary. In some embodiments the gratings can be made of materials other than silicon such as for example germanium gallium arsenide gallium phosphide and silicon nitride

A number of embodiments of the disclosure have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure. Accordingly other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.

The examples set forth above are provided to those of ordinary skill in the art as a complete disclosure and description of how to make and use the embodiments of the disclosure and are not intended to limit the scope of what the inventor inventors regard as their disclosure.

Modifications of the above described modes for carrying out the methods and systems herein disclosed that are obvious to persons of skill in the art are intended to be within the scope of the following claims. All patents and publications mentioned in the specification are indicative of the levels of skill of those skilled in the art to which the disclosure pertains. All references cited in this disclosure are incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each reference had been incorporated by reference in its entirety individually.

It is to be understood that the disclosure is not limited to particular methods or systems which can of course vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting. As used in this specification and the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the content clearly dictates otherwise. The term plurality includes two or more referents unless the content clearly dictates otherwise. Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which the disclosure pertains.

The references in the present application shown in the reference list below are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

