---

title: User interface driven translation, comparison, unification, and deployment of device neutral network security policies
abstract: A method is performed at a management device to manage multiple network security devices over a network. The security devices are configured to control access to network accessible resources. A query is received. In response to the received query, a respective native security rule that references the specific resource is collected from each security device, where each native security rule is based on a respective native rule model associated with the security device from which the native security rule is collected. Each native security rule is translated into a respective normalized rule that is based on a generic rule model. The respective normalized rules are compared to each other to generate compare results. Based on the compare results, an indication of whether each security device allows or blocks access to the specific resource is generated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09641540&OS=09641540&RS=09641540
owner: Cisco Technology, Inc.
number: 09641540
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150529
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 62 163 515 filed May 19 2015 the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

Administering and maintaining security of an enterprise network is critical task to ensure business efficiency and productivity. Security involves numerous tasks including without limitation monitoring for unauthorized operations intrusions external accesses application security content security authentication compliance etc. which can among other things put sensitive data at risk. This can be complicated by the fact that the enterprise network may span numerous geographical regions nationally an internationally.

In a typical enterprise network there are numerous security devices of various types as well as numerous management applications. This can make enforcement of requirements challenging. Each device or type of device has its own set of complex policy definitions. A network administrator needs to be an expert on numerous security products in order to define policies and maintain security.

A method is performed at a management device that manages multiple network security devices over a network. The security devices are configured to control access to network accessible resources. A query is received that asks how the security devices control access to a specific resource. In response to the received query a respective native security rule that references the specific resource is collected from each security device where each native security rule is based on a respective native rule model associated with the security device from which the native security rule is collected. Each native security rule is translated into a respective normalized rule that is based on a generic rule model. The respective normalized rules are compared to each other to generate compare results. Based on the compare results an indication of whether each security device allows access or blocks access to the specific resource is generated for display.

Presented herein are a system and methods which simplify unify and enhance policy management for network security products. A centralized management entity that may take the form of a cloud based application communicates with the network security products e.g. devices applications etc. but generally referred to as security devices herein in a given network environment e.g. a customer datacenter or customer enterprise network etc. . The system can perform analytics and obey shared best practices to provide enhanced insight into network security threats in order to make prompt mitigation. The system presented herein can achieve real time integration between threats and policy enforcement in a way not heretofore possible.

Examples of network security devices products that may be integrated into the system presented herein include but are not limited to including firewalls intrusion prevention systems IPSs Next Generation firewalls NGFWs Next Generation IPSs NGIPSs web security appliances WSAs identity services engines ISEs application security appliances ASAs cloud web security CWS products security manager products content security management appliances cloud firewalls intrusion detection systems IDSs etc.

As used herein a security policy is a set of one or more rules that collectively govern what is and what is not allowed through security devices products. Security policies include network security policies application security policies and authentication security policies. A policy typically includes multiple attributes such as source destination applications port universal resource locator URL on which to take a network security operation or action e.g. permit or deny . The embodiments presented below are directed to network security policies for illustrative purposes only and may be used for application security policies and authentication security polices as would be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the relevant arts with access to present description.

Thus the term network security device as used herein is not meant to be limited to network devices and may include other security devices and applications such as application security content security authentication etc. Thus more generally these devices are referred to as security devices and are meant to include physical devices as well as applications or tools. Likewise the term network security policy is not limited to network policies and may include other security policies such as application security policies content security policies authentication policies etc. and thus more generally these policies are referred to as security policies. 

A business policy is typically a statement in writing of how a company plans to protect the company s physical and information technology IT assets. A role of a security architect or security operator is to apply the business policy into enforceable security policy ies monitor the enforcement and make changes as needed.

Referring now to a cloud based management system is shown that connects to and communicates with network security devices in a customer datacenter. shows the details of customer datacenter but it should be understood that the cloud based management system may connect and communicate with multiple customer datacenters N as shown in .

The cloud based management system includes a management entity that consists of one or more computer servers M that execute software to perform the operations described throughout this disclosure. An example of a hardware configuration for the management entity is described in more detail below in connection with .

The customer datacenters N each includes a plurality of network security devices or products shown at reference numerals P . Within a customer datacenter there are one or more resources and one or more actors . The resources may include servers databases and the actors are users or processes using a computing device personal computer SmartPhone etc. that may seek access to one or more of the resources . The resources and actors may also reside outside the customer datacenter itself e.g. in the Internet. The network security devices P control access of the actors to the resources according to policies i.e. a set of one or more rules configured on the respective network security devices.

As explained above the network security devices P may be of different types from the same or different vendors of network security products. The management entity centralizes and unifies the management of network security policies across the plurality of network security devices P to greatly simplify network security management in a customer datacenter.

Turning now to a flow chart is shown for a process according to an example embodiment. This process is described in connection with . The process begins at step where a customer e.g. a business or enterprise is on boarded to a cloud based management system. This on board operation is shown in . This involves a network administrator shown at reference numeral logging on to a log on web page served by one of the servers M of the management entity . The log on web page allows the network administrator to set up privileges to permit the management entity to communicate over the Internet into the customer datacenter in order to connect to the network security devices P . In addition during the initial log in and setup phase the network administrator provides names and address e.g. Internet Protocol IP addresses for each of the network security devices in the customer datacenter. Other types of set up processes may be used other than use of a log on web page.

Next at step the management entity discovers the network security devices and imports the policies from each network security device. This operation is depicted in . The discovery step is described in more detail hereinafter. Briefly this involves sending a connection string and device type tag to each network security device. Each network security device responds with device descriptor and policy data for each network security rule configured on the respective network security device. This data is shown at reference numerals P from network security devices P respectively. An example of the policy data imported form a security device may be 

The management entity stores the discovered data describing the discovered security devices and their native policies as shown at reference numeral . Each native network security policy may be one or more native network security rules associated with a named network security device and formatted according to a corresponding native policy model for a network security device. Each native network security rule may in turn include a set of rule parameters to permit or deny network access for the named network security device based on a network protocol source and destination addresses and a device port.

Next at step and as an optional step the imported policies are classified. Specifically the imported policies are compared against each other to determine whether they can be grouped into one of several categories. These categories include but are not limited to including 1 identical 2 similar 3 unique and 4 further investigation required. The classification step is described in further detail below in under the heading Security Policy Classification. Generally speaking classifying may involve classifying imported native network security policies into network security policy classifications each including one or more of the imported native network security policies based on commonality between security rules included in the native network security policies across the multiple network security devices. Thus classifying may involve automatically classifying the network security policies into the classifications based on commonality between the network security rules across the named devices associated with the network security policies.

Next at step data describing the native network security policies received from each of the network security devices is normalized in accordance with a generic policy model to produce normalized policy data. The normalized policy data is shown at reference numeral in . Corresponding normalized policy data P is sent to each of the network security devices and as explained further hereinafter in the section under the heading Security Policy Unification a translation is made from the normalized policy data in accordance with the generic policy model to rules in accordance with the native rule set for the respective network security devices. Generally each native network security policy imported from a network security device may be a set of one or more native network security rules each native network security rule including native rule parameters expressed according to the corresponding native model. The imported native network security policies are normalized by for each imported native network security policy mapping the native rule parameters expressed according to the corresponding native model to corresponding components of a generic rule defined according to the generic policy model. The mapping may include mapping the native rule parameters to the corresponding components a principal or actor action a resource a context and perform a result as used in the generic rule if a principal or actor tries to perform an action on a resource within a context then perform a result. 

Next at step additional network security devices may be added and in so doing a network policy template may be created that is deployed to any additional network devices. illustrates the additional network security device at reference numeral P 1 . When a new network security device is added its device descriptor and native security policy data is imported as shown at reference numeral . This policy data is normalized against the generic policy model as described above in connection with and normalized policy data P 1 is sent to the network security device P 1 .

Next at step the management entity receives network security events from the network security devices P in the customer datacenter.

Next at step the management entity processes orchestrates and automates the received network security events.

To summarize at a system level a method is provided comprising at a management entity discovering multiple security devices connected to a network each security network device to control network access by devices associated therewith according to a corresponding native security policy that is based on a corresponding native policy model associated with the security device importing the native security policies from the corresponding security devices over the network normalizing the imported native security policies across the security devices based on a generic policy model to produce normalized security policies that are based on the generic policy model and representative of the native security polices and processing orchestrating and automating received network security events among the security devices based on the normalized security policies. Processing may involve reporting the received network security events to a desired destination e.g. a network administrator and making changes to security policies as needed based on the received network security events.

Turning now to a block diagram is shown of an example hardware implementation for the management entity . In one example the management entity includes one or more servers M . Each server includes one or more processors one or more network interface units and memory . The memory stores control software that when executed by the processor s cause the server to perform the various operations described herein for the management entity . Local user input output devices not shown may be coupled with management entity to enable a user to enter information and receive information from the management entity. Such devices include but are not limited to a display a keyboard a mouse and so on.

The processor s may be a microprocessor or microcontroller or multiple instances of such components . The network interface unit s may include one or more network interface cards that enable network connectivity.

The memory may include read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic disk storage media devices optical storage media devices flash memory devices electrical optical or other physically tangible i.e. non transitory memory storage devices. Thus in general the memory may comprise one or more tangible non transitory computer readable storage media e.g. memory device s encoded with software or firmware that comprises computer executable instructions. For example control software includes logic to implement i network security classification ii network policy unification iii network policy template creation and deployment and iv and User Interface UI such as Graphical User Interface GUI driven translation comparison unification and deployment of device neutral network security policies as described below. Memory also stores data not shown generated and used by the aforementioned logic.

Such logic also includes logic to implement User Interfaces UIs such as Graphical User Interfaces GUIs as necessary in connection with the classification unification template creation and deployment and UI driven translation comparison unification and deployment of device neutral network security policies.

A user such as a network administrator may interact with the management entity to receive reports change policy etc. through UIs by way of a user device that connects by way of a network local area network LAN and or wide area network WAN with the management entity . The user device may be a personal computer laptop desktop tablet computer SmartPhone etc.

Embodiments directed to normalizing imported rules are now described in the context of security policies for illustrative purposes. As used herein the terms normalize and unify and their corresponding derivatives e.g. normalization and unification are synonymous and may be used interchangeably.

Referring again to and management entity imports different security policies from different types of security devices over a network as described above. Each imported security policy is considered to be native to the security device from which the policy is imported in that the policy is based on a native policy model associated with that security device. Each of the security devices controls network access by devices associated therewith according to the corresponding native network security policy. A native security policy includes native security rules. A native security rule includes or defines a set of rule parameters. With reference to there is an illustration of a native security rule in the form of an access list extended rule that may form part of a native security policy. Rule has a name and includes parameters that permit or deny network access based on a network protocol TCP UDP or none source and destination addresses and a service device port.

Management entity normalizes the imported native security policies across security devices based on a generic policy model to produce a normalized network security policy generally representative of all of the native network security polices. Management entity may also modify the normalized security policy to suit further generalized security goals translate the modified normalized security policy to corresponding native security policies representative of the modified normalized policy and then push the resulting native policies to corresponding ones of security devices. In addition a normalized policy may be created by a user automatically translated to suitable native policies and pushed to multiple security devices e.g. devices . A normalized network security policy is also referred to herein as a generic or unified policy network security policy.

As mentioned above management entity normalizes native security policies that are based on corresponding native policy models to a generic security policy that is based on a generic policy model. In one embodiment the generic policy model referred to as the Principal Action Resource Context Result PARCR model is defined as follows 

With reference to there is an illustration of a PARCR model also referred to as a PARCR policy model . The PARCR model includes basic PARCR model components i.e. principal P action A resource R context C and result R expressed in the if then result syntax. A normalized or generic network security policy based on the PARCR model includes generic security rules based on the PARCR model. The generic security rules include the PARCR model components referred to as PARCR rule components expressed in the if then result syntax. Thus normalizing a native security policy includes mapping native features such as native security rules and their respective rule parameters expressed according to the native policy model to corresponding PARCR rule components expressed in the PARCR model syntax i.e. the if then result form .

The examples below show mappings between native security policies and normalized or generic network security policies based on the PARCR model at the rule level. In other words in the examples the native rule parameters of native security rules are mapped to corresponding PARCR rule components.

With reference to there is a block diagram of an example policy unification module that may be implemented in management entity to convert or map between the native network security policies expressed according to native policy models and normalized or generic policies expressed according to the PARCR model e.g. PARCR model . Module includes a Northbound Application Programming Interface API which may be a Representational State Transfer REST API that interfaces with a policy user interface UI a unified policy engine a Southbound model API and multiple network security device specific network security device plug ins N that interface to corresponding ones of network security devices .

Northbound API allows services or applications such a generalized network security UI or a policy orchestrator e.g. policy UI to communicate with unified policy engine . API allows such services applications to perform operations such as move policy from one network security device e.g. one of devices to another or perform operations that traverse the devices and that require policies in more than one network security device type. One example is to block all IP addresses from a geo location. Another example is to set up access blocking based on the IP being used in the access and a service such as Secure Shell SSH over HTTP.

Southbound model API perform actions on a network security device specific i.e. native network security policy. API receives native network security policies and rules imported via corresponding plug ins from the corresponding network security devices . API also pushes native network security policies down to network security devices via the corresponding plug ins . API may also perform some of the mapping or translating between imported native network security policies and normalized generic network security policies as mentioned above.

Device plug ins read and write network security policy information directly from and to network security devices e.g. WSAs . Plug ins may also include portions of mapping logic to assist with translating native network security policies into the generic normalized network security policy format. In an example WSA network access policy rules would define Block Monitor Allow Warn as the rule actions. Other WSA network access policy rules such as WSA time definitions e.g. Core Business hours may be mapped to the context generic rule component.

Policy engine may implement a policy object model layer to tie network security device specific policies i.e. native policies into the generic policy model e.g. the PARCR model. This may be implemented as a JavaScript Object Notation JSON file that ties generic network security policy and rule components objects e.g. principal context action to Java classes that can enumerate the supported components objects and validate the generic network security rules. The policy object model layer may also allow network security device plug ins to attach network security device specific attributes to object definitions. For example WSA plug in may indicate that there is an immutable Boolean on the policy called Is Global Policy and a mutable integer called Policy Order whose legal values are between n and m. In another embodiment the policy object model layer may be implemented in Southbound model API .

In an embodiment aggregated plug ins may be used in an environment in which policies are to be defined to cross network security devices. For example a policy definition may require sub policies in an ASA and a WSA. Such policies may be defined by higher level plug ins which instead of talking to network security devices directly would talk to network security device plug ins and build policies on top of the generic policy definitions exposed by the device plug ins.

With reference to there is an illustration of example PARCR mapping performed in part by plug ins of policy unification module . According to mapping native ASA policies including corresponding native rule parameters which protect based IP protocols native WSA policies including corresponding native rule parameters which protect based on URLs and native firewall policies including corresponding native rule parameters which protect based on content applications are each mapped to corresponding generic rule components of the same generic policy model i.e. the PARCR model.

With reference to there is an illustration of an example PARCR model anatomy or break down referred to as policy anatomy . The example of represents one possible data model corresponding to an ASA plug in. It is understood that partitioning between objects in the anatomy may be varied and that other policy anatomies for other data models are possible. The PARCR policy anatomy is based on the following assumptions 

Going from bottom to top in policy anatomy depicts a mapping of predefined native policy rule objects in the native domain bottom of to PARCR rule components in the PARCR domain top of . In the native domain an ASA construct for an ASA device operates on a variety of objects depicted as boxes inside the box ASA . The ASA construct may be implemented in ASA plug in for example. Each of the objects depicted in ASA represents a definition of something that the ASA may control. For example the ASA GroupObject may define a range of IP addresses protected by firewall or a group of other objects the ASA Object may define or point to all of the other objects defined in the ASA the ASA ServiceObject may be a combination of a IP addresses a service device port and a protocol the ASA NetworkObject may be an endpoint and the ASA Result includes a permit or deny.

Common object is also depicted in the native domain. Common object is common across multiple security device plug ins and may include for example objects similar to any of the example objects described above in connection with ASA .

As depicted in policy anatomy various objects in the native domain may represent an entity accessible to the PARCR model. Entity maps to either or both the principal and the resource rule components of the PARCR model as depicted in . Each of the PARCR rule components depicted in as boxes labeled principal action resource context and result includes a name represented as a string and a universally unique identifier UUID .

Also as depicted in policy anatomy the PARCR rule components are combined into a generic PARCR rule according to the if then result syntax. Generic rule forms part of a generic network security policy .

The following example shows a mapping between a native network security policy expressed in terms of predefined objects and a generic network security policy based on the PARCR model 

In normalizing native security policies based on native policy models to generic security policies based on a common generic policy model as described above it is desirable to bridge between the generic e.g. PARCR and native e.g. WSA models through corresponding data elements associated with the native and generic policies as opposed to code . Accordingly a policy data driven policy model bridge that describes or defines native policies in terms of the PARCR model may be used to map the native policies to PARCR rule components. As described above in connection with policy anatomy objects that are not strictly security policies but are referenced by the policies are modeled as entities. An example policy model bridge is described below in connection with .

With reference to there is shown an example of a policy model bridge that may be used to map a simplified WSA access policy to the PARCR model. Other policy model bridges may be used corresponding to other security devices. Policy model bridge may also map native entity objects directed time ranges over which a native rule is to be active and URLs that may need to be blocked or allowed to corresponding PARCR rule components. In the example of policy model bridge operates to perform the WSA to PARCR rule mapping shown above in Example 1. In that example policy model bridge may be implemented as a JSON file that represents a contract between the PARCR model and WSA plug in and may be implemented in the WSA plug in.

Policy model bridge referred to as simply bridge includes a header that provides basic information about the corresponding plug in. Header indicates a name of bridge e.g. WSA which is unique across all plug ins . Header also includes a version e.g. 1 to indicate a schema of the policy bridge JSON file being used. Header includes a service definition that indicates an actual implementation of the service as well as a mock implementation. Running a mock implementation simplifies for example automated testing of generic policy UI . The exposed service retrieves concrete instances of native policies and entities.

After header bridge includes policies which enumerates substantially all of the policies supported by the bridge . Different types of network security devices such as the WSA will typically expose network security policies of many different types. Some of these network security policies may be complex and may take advantage of many of the features available in the PARCR model while other policies may be very simplistic. Policies define the following 

Bridge also describes what types of entities can be referenced inside of network security policies. In other words the network security policy is a set of rules composed of references to external entities. Sometimes the types of these entities will be defined within a namespace e.g. plug in which means the entity is specific to the native device. For example if WSAs have the notion of URL categories but other devices do not it makes sense to the URL category entity to be scoped to the WSA plug in. In other cases an entity may be something much more generic and may apply across multiple devices. For example a principal definition that indicates a user was authenticated by Active Directory may be applicable to WSA and a particular type of firewall and therefore might be defined in a non device specific plug in. Thus a policy model bridge such as bridge may include a reference mechanism or section used to refer to types within the current namespace and within other namespaces. An example reference section is provided below 

In entities bridge includes a URL Category entity that is expressed through a list of resources. Two types of resources are accepted. A user may pick a type and enter a free form string. Then depending on type the string would be validated using one of two validators the first ensures a string is a valid URL and the second that the string is a valid regular expression. As the user enters the string policy UI may call the validators and give a visual indication if the string is incorrect. Types that start with a hash are build in types.

In entities bridge also includes a time range entity which indicates a time range to be mapped to the resources rule component of PARCR. For example a WSA policy may express two custom time ranges. The first one is Extended Business Hours and is defined as being Monday through Friday 7 am to 6 pm and Saturday 10 am to 4 pm. The second one is Core Business Hours and is defined as being Monday through Friday 10 am to 2 pm. Bridge maps such time ranges into the PARCR rule.

A policy model bridge such as bridge may also include an access policy action which is a simple entity that does not include any components. A hidden flag may be used to indicate that this entity is not exposed to an end user as a first class object and that it can only be referenced in the context of policy definitions. Enumerating this entity class would return three instances for example Block Monitor and Warn. 

With reference to there is shown a flowchart of an example method of converting between normalized network security policies and native network security policies as described above. Reference can be made to in connection with the description of .

At management entity receives from security devices corresponding native security policies each based on a native policy model associated with the corresponding network security device. Each of the security devices controls access to resources by other devices according to the corresponding native security policy. Each native network security policy includes a set of one or more native network security rules each native network security rule including native rule parameters expressed according to the corresponding native policy model.

At management entity normalizes the received native network security policies across the network security devices based on a generic policy model e.g. the PARCR model to produce normalized network security policies that are based on the generic policy model and representative of the native network security polices. To do this for each received native network security policy management entity maps the native rule parameters expressed according to the corresponding native policy model to corresponding generic rule components of the generic policy model to form a generic security rule. For example management entity maps the native rule parameters to PARCR rule components according to the PARCR model in the form if principal tries to perform an action on resource within context then result to generate the generic rule.

Assuming that a given native rule includes native rule parameters configured to cause an identified security device to perform an access control operation e.g. permit or deny for a type of access e.g. read write any based on a protocol a source address associated with the access control operation and a destination address associated with the network access the mapping may include mapping 

At management entity receives a generic security policy e.g. PARCR rules based on the generic policy model e.g. the PARCR model .

At management entity translates the generic security policy to multiple native security policies each based on a corresponding one of the native policy models associated with the corresponding one of the network security devices. To do this management entity maps the generic rule components to native rule parameters expressed according to the corresponding native policy model to form native rules representative of the one or more generic network rules.

At management entity provides the multiple native security policies to the corresponding security devices to enable the security devices to implement the native security policies.

Embodiments directed to UI GUI driven translation comparison unification and deployment of device neutral network security policies are now described.

Referring to there is a flowchart of an example method of using UIs to drive translating comparing unifying and deploying device neutral network security policies. are also referred to in connection with the description of . It is to be understood from the following description that after step in processing continues to step in .

At management entity discovers network security devices e.g. network devices and a network topology in which the security devices are deployed. Management entity may discover the security devices as described above in connection with process .

At management entity generates a search UI through which a user enters a generalized query that asks for example how or in what manner the security devices control access to various resources or applications that are accessible through networks to which the security devices are connected. In the ensuing description the term resource generally means any resource or application accessible through a network including hardware servers computer programs services such as cloud based services and so on. A given resource may be identified by a name and or a URL for example. A resource may also refer to a class of resources.

Responsive to the query at management entity collects from each security device a native security rule that references the specific resource e.g. Facebook. The native security rule is based on a respective native rule model associated with the security device from which the native security rule is collected. That is the native security rule includes native rule parameters expressed according to the respective native rule model. It is to be understood that each rule may include references to related rules in an access control list for example. In an embodiment the collecting at may include searching native security policies i.e. sets of native rules already collected from the security devices at operation for references to the identity of the specific resource entered at e.g. searching for reference to related URLs names and so on.

At management entity translates the native security rule from each security device into a respective normalized rule that is based on a generic rule model. Management entity may translate the native security rules in the manner described above in connection with operation of method . In an example management entity translates each native security rule also referred to as a native rule into a normalized security rule also referred to as a normalized rule based on the PARCR model. This includes mapping the native rule parameters of each native rule to corresponding normalized rule components in a normalized rule e.g. to PARCR rule components in a PARCR rule.

In an example of operations and operation collects as native rules at least one CWS rule from a CWS security device at least one Firepower rule from a Firepower security device and at least one WSA rule from a WSA security device and operation translates the native rules to corresponding normalized rules. The following are example native rules expressed at an abstract level for the CWS Firepower and WSA security devices and corresponding normalized rules 

At management entity performs a series of compare determine operations on the normalized rules produced at . Management entity compares the normalized rules against each other to generate compare results. In an example with a normalized rule for each of first second and third security devices the compare includes i a compare of the normalized rule for the first security device against the normalized rules for each of the second and third security devices and ii a compare of the normalized rule for the second security device against the normalized rules for the first and third security devices. Management entity also determines whether some of the security devices allow access while other block access to the specific resource based on the normalized rules i.e. whether the normalized rules implement divergent access control with respect to the specific resource. Management entity also counts the number of security devices that allow access and the number of security devices that block access to the specific resource based on the normalized rules.

Additionally at management entity may examine the normalized rules and or the native rules from which the normalized rules are derived to identify determine specific user exceptions to the main primary access control imposed by the security devices. For example for each normalized rule that primarily allows or blocks access to the specific resource management entity determines whether that normalized rule allows or blocks all users except for a specific group of users which are referred to as user exceptions. A group of users is construed broadly to mean one or more users i.e. a group of users may be only one user or more than one user.

At management entity further determines any sub operations that may be associated with access control actions implemented by each security device. Generally each security device performs a main or primary access control i.e. allow access or block access with respect to the specific resource based on the native rules implemented on the security device and as indicated in the corresponding normalized rule. In addition each security device may also be able to perform impose access control sub operations associated with the primary allow access or block access action. For example CWS and WSA security devices may include the following combinations of primary access control with associated access control sub operations allow access and do nothing N allow access and monitor or track access M allow access but warn when access occurs W allow access but authenticate first A . In a further example the Firepower security device may include the following combinations of primary access control with sub operations or sub operation block access and drop D and reset R . At management entity determines which of these sub operations may be applied by each security device.

At management entity generates for display a search results UI based on the results of operations and i.e. the compare and determine operations described above. The search results UI shows whether each security device allows or blocks access to the specific resource. If it is determined at that some of the security devices allow access while others block access to the specific resource the search results UI presents a user selectable icon to unify actions. Also if it is determined at that specific user exceptions exist the search results UI presents an exception field to highlight or indicate the exceptions. Also the search results UI also presents access control sub operations if any determined at .

Turning now to there is an illustration of an example search results UI generated by management entity in response to a search directed to the resource Facebook entered by the user through UI . The information presented in UI corresponds to results generated in part based on the example CWS Firepower and WSA rules listed above after the description of operation . UI presents columns from left to right for a resource name C1 to which access is controlled a risk C2 associated with the named resource peer information C3 a number of visits C4 to the named resource per month an object label C5 that identifies a type of security device and a main primary access control action C6 taken by the labeled security device with respect to the named resource. The primary access control action C6 is indicated as an access control toggle switch icon that toggles right and left to indicate allow access and block access respectively.

UI presents three rows R1 R2 and R3 to indicate access control of respective resources facebook.com Facebook App and Facebook Messenger that were found during the search performed at operation for rules that reference the specific resource entered at . Row R1 indicates that a CWS security device identified in column C5 allows access as indicated by the toggle right icon in column C6 to the resource facebook.com identified in column C1 . Row R3 indicates that the CWS security device and a WSA security device each allow access to the resource Facebook Messenger.

Row R2 indicates that the CWS security device a Firepower security device and the WSA security device each listed in column C5 all control access to Facebook App identified in column 1 in divergent ways. That is row R2 indicates that the security devices control access in divergent ways by presenting a user selectable icon to unify actions see column 6 . In other words unify actions icon also referred to as unify icon indicates that some of the CWS Firepower and WSA security devices primarily allow access while others primarily block access to Facebook App. Unify icon when selected by the user will cause management entity to unify the way in which all of the CWS Firepower and WSA security devices control access to the resource Facebook App as will be described below.

Because the CWS Firepower and WSA security devices listed in row R2 diverge on the way they control access to Facebook App UI expands row R2 at to include further information for each of the CWS Firepower and WSA security devices. Further information includes a set of access control toggle switches to indicate that the divergent CWS Firepower and WSA security devices primarily allow access block access and allow access to Facebook App respectively.

Further information also includes a user exceptions field to indicate that the CWS security device allows access to all users except sales the Firepower security device blocks access to all users except marketing and the WSA security device allows access to all users except IT.

Further information also includes access control sub operation fields that indicate for each of the security devices possible access control sub operations associated with the primary access control operation that is imposed. The control access sub operations shown for the CWS and WSA include allow access and do nothing N allow access and monitor or track accesses M allow access but warn when access occurs W allow access but authenticate first A . The control access sub operations shown for the Firepower security device include block access and drop D and reset R . UI indicates that the control access sub operations M D and N are being imposed by the CWS Firepower and WSA security devices respectively.

Returning again back to at assuming the user selects the unify icon presented by the UI generated at at management entity receives that selection.

Responsive to receipt of the selection of the unify icon at management entity performs operations shown in to unify native security rules across the security devices in compliance with the unified action so that all of the security devices either allow access or block access to the specific resource as is now described.

At management entity automatically selects as a unified action either to allow access or block access to the specific resource. Management entity selects as the unified action either i allow access i.e. sets the primary access control to allow access if it is determined that more of the security devices allow access than block access or ii block access i.e. sets the primary access control to block access if it is determined that more of the security devices block access than allow access. If it is determined that the same number of security devices allow and block access to the specific resource in one embodiment management entity selects to allow access as the unified action and in another embodiment selects to block access as the unified action.

At responsive to the automatic selection at management entity generates a UI or updates the previous UI generated at to indicate the unified action either allow access or block access selected at and present user selectable sub operations if any associated with the selected unified action. Presentation of the user selectable sub operations is optional.

Turning back to at management entity generates a normalized rule e.g. one normalized rule to perform the unified action either allow access or block access selected at . In the example of the management entity generates a normalized rule to allow access to Facebook. The normalized rule may be based on the PARCR model.

At management entity translates the normalized security rule to perform the unified action into unified native security rules each for a respective one of the security devices. The unified native rule for each security device when implemented on the security device will cause the security device to perform the unified action either allow access or block access with respect to the specific resource. Management entity may translate the normalized rule into the unified native rule in the manner described above in connection with operation of method .

At management entity configures each security device with the respective unified native security rule so that all of the security devices either allow access or block access to the specific resource in accordance with selected unified action. To configure a given security device management entity may download the respective unified native security rule to and install the rule on the security device i.e. management entity deploys the native security rules on the security devices . In the example of management entity configures all of the security devices to allow access to Facebook.

At if the user selects a sub operation in the UI or updated UI generated at management entity receives the selection. Such selection is optional.

At responsive to the selection received at management entity configures each of the security devices with a respective native security rule so that the security devices perform the selected sub operation. In the example of the selected sub operation is Monitor M . Therefore management entity configures each security device already configured to allow access to Facebook to also Monitor record any such access.

In summary in one form a method is provided comprising at a management device that manages multiple network security devices over a network the security devices configured to control access to network accessible resources receiving a query that asks how the security devices control access to a specific resource and responsive to the query collecting from each security device a respective native security rule that references the specific resource each native security rule based on a respective native rule model associated with the security device from which the native security rule is collected translating each native security rule into a respective normalized rule that is based on a generic rule model comparing the respective normalized rules to each other to generate compare results and generating for display based on the compare results an indication that shows whether each security device allows access or blocks access to the specific resource.

In another form an apparatus is provided comprising a network interface unit that enables communication with a network and a processor coupled to the network interface unit configured to manage multiple network security devices over the network the security devices configured to control access to network accessible resources the processor configured to receive a query that asks how the security devices control access to a specific resource and responsive to the query collect from each security device a respective native security rule that references the specific resource each native security rule based on a respective native rule model associated with the security device from which the native security rule is collected translate each native security rule into a respective normalized rule that is based on a generic rule model compare the respective normalized rules to each other to generate compare results and generate for display based on the compare results a indication of whether each security device allows access or blocks access to the specific resource.

In yet another form a non transitory tangible computer readable storage media encoded with instructions is provided. The instructions when executed by a processor cause the processor to receive a query that asks how network security devices control access to a specific resource and responsive to the query collect from each security device a respective native security rule that references the specific resource each native security rule based on a respective native rule model associated with the security device from which the native security rule is collected translate each native security rule into a respective normalized rule that is based on a generic rule model compare the respective normalized rules to each other to generate compare results and generate for display based on the compare results an indication of whether each security device allows access or blocks access to the specific resource.

In another form a method is provided comprising at a management device to manage multiple network security devices determining based on security rules implemented on and collected from the security devices whether some of the security devices allow access while others block access to a specific resource if it is determined that some security devices allow access while others block access to the specific resource generating for display a user selectable icon to unify actions across the security devices receiving a selection of the icon and responsive thereto selecting a unified action either to allow access or block access to the specific resource and unifying security rules implemented on the security devices across the security devices in compliance with the unified action so that all of the security devices either allow access or block access to the specific resource.

In yet another form an apparatus is provided comprising a network interface unit that enables communication over a network and a processor coupled to the network interface unit to manage multiple network security devices over the network the processor configured to determine based on security rules implemented on and collected from the security devices whether some of the security devices allow access while others block access to a specific resource and if it is determined that some security devices allow access while others block access to the specific resource generate for display a user selectable icon to unify actions across the security devices receive a selection of the icon and responsive thereto select a unified action either to allow access or block access to the specific resource and unify security rules implemented on the security devices across the security devices in compliance with the unified action so that all of the security devices either allow access or block access to the specific resource.

In an even further form a non transitory tangible computer readable storage media encoded with instructions is provided. The instructions when executed by a processor cause the processor to determine based on security rules implemented on and collected from the security devices whether some of the security devices allow access while others block access to a specific resource and if it is determined that some security devices allow access while others block access to the specific resource generate for display a user selectable icon to unify actions across the security devices receive a selection of the icon and responsive thereto select a unified action either to allow access or block access to the specific resource and unify security rules implemented on the security devices across the security devices in compliance with the unified action so that all of the security devices either allow access or block access to the specific resource.

The above description is intended by way of example only. Various modifications and structural changes may be made therein without departing from the scope of the concepts described herein and within the scope and range of equivalents of the claims.

