---

title: Systems and methods for locating and imaging proppant in an induced fracture
abstract: Born Scattering Inversion (BSI) systems and methods are disclosed. A BSI system may be incorporated in a well system for accessing natural gas, oil and geothermal reserves in a geologic formation beneath the surface of the Earth. The BSI system may be used to generate a three-dimensional image of a proppant-filled hydraulically-induced fracture in the geologic formation. The BSI system may include computing equipment and sensors for measuring electromagnetic fields in the vicinity of the fracture before and after the fracture is generated, adjusting the parameters of a first Born approximation model of a scattered component of the surface electromagnetic fields using the measured electromagnetic fields, and generating the image of the proppant-filled fracture using the adjusted parameters.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09250351&OS=09250351&RS=09250351
owner: CARBO Ceramics Inc.
number: 09250351
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150108
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 323 674 filed Jul. 3 2014 which claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 948 169 filed Mar. 5 2014 the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to Contract No. DE AC04 94AL85000 between the United States Department of Energy and Sandia Corporation for the operation of the Sandia National Laboratories.

As the population of the world increases efficient mechanisms for obtaining sources of energy including natural gas oil and geothermal reserves are continuously being investigated. One exemplary technique for obtaining access to natural gas oil and geothermal reserves is known as hydraulic fracturing. Hydraulic fracturing is the process of initiating and subsequently propagating a fracture in a geologic formation through utilization of fracturing fluid. To create the fracture in the geologic formation a drill is employed to create a well bore that reaches depths of several thousand feet until a desired geologic formation is reached . A well casing is placed in the well bore. The well casing is typically composed of steel. The well casing is cemented in place to stabilize the well casing with respect to the Earth.

Hydraulic fracturing is commonly employed to enhance the fluid flow permeability of shale geologic formations for petroleum oil and or natural gas and geothermal energy production. Subsequent to the well casing being cemented in place a fracturing fluid pumped down the well bore and through perforations in the well casing at a pressure that is in excess of the fracture gradient of the geologic formation. Such pressure causes the geologic formation to fracture. Pumping of the fracturing fluid down the well bore is continued to extend the fracture further into the formation. As the fracture extends a proppant is added to the fracture fluid and pumped down the well bore and into the fracture thereby propping the fracture open when pumping of the fracture fluid ceases. This causes the geologic formation to become permeable via the fracture thereby allowing natural gas or oil to be extracted from the geologic formation. Hydraulic fractures can be induced using vertical horizontal and or slanted wells. This process is commonly referred to as hydraulic fracturing.

Because a typical fracture occurs thousands of feet beneath the surface of the Earth and because a fracture can extend from the well bore in a variety of directions and orientations it is difficult to determine the location of a fracture within the geologic formation. Modeling techniques have been developed in which prior to a hydraulic fracturing operation electromagnetic fields at the surface of the Earth resulting from an application of an electric current to various hypothetical fractures through the well bore are calculated. Following the hydraulic fracturing operation an electromagnetic field measured at the surface of the Earth is used to select from the various hypothetical fractures. Although these modeling techniques have been successful in helping to locate induced fractures they are limited by the number and accuracy of the hypothetical fractures used to compute the predicted fields.

In contrast to these forward modeling approaches an inverse modeling solution in which measured fields are used to infer the location and orientation of the fracture rather than simply selecting from a group of hypothetical fractures has long been desired. However in order to infer fracture location orientation geometry etc. from measured EM field data using conventional techniques EM field data must be computed and compared with the measured field data many times. Because the computation time for computing a model can be long it has been economically and practically infeasible to wait for this type of inverse model computation after a hydraulic fracturing operation and before the extraction of the natural gas oil or geothermal resources. No economically and computationally feasible inverse modeling solution has therefore been forthcoming.

It would therefore be desirable to provide improved systems and methods for evaluating well hydraulic fracturing and completion techniques useful in extracting natural gas oil and geothermal reserves from a geologic formation.

The following is a brief summary of subject matter that is described in greater detail herein. This summary is not intended to be limiting as to the scope of the claims.

Described herein are various technologies pertaining to modeling the properties of a fracture in a geologic formation. Properties include fracture size and geometry. These properties are determined or inferred from determined proppant and or fracture properties. The fracture may be used to extract natural gas oil and geothermal reserves from the geologic formation

The disclosed methodology and associated modeling utilizes electromagnetic EM energy scattered from a subsurface geological geophysical or artificial feature of interest to produce a highly resolved three dimensional 3D image of the feature. The method includes producing an image or representation of a hydraulic fracture induced in a subsurface geologic formation after the fracture has been injected with propping material proppant with favorable EM characteristics.

In various embodiments properties such as the size shape location orientation and or extent of the proppant pack and fracture may be determined in an economically and computationally feasible inverse modeling operation. The modeling operation may be used to generate a three dimensional image of proppant material within a fracture. As used herein the terms proppant material and proppant refer to material that includes many e.g. thousands millions or more of individual proppant particles or elements.

According to the present invention a model is disclosed that estimates or calculates electromagnetic EM field values at the locations of one or more sensors at or near the surface of the Earth and then adjusts calculated EM field values in the model s Earth volume based on measured electromagnetic field data gathered by the sensors before and after a hydraulic fracking operation. The model includes a geophysical model which may be referred to as an earth model of a volume of the Earth that includes at least a portion of a geologic formation and a well bore. The geophysical model is a three dimensional representation of the EM medium properties of the volume of interest including but not limited to the geologic formation well bore and casing overburden and the surface of the earth over the volume.

The model includes a First Born Approximation FBA model component which may be referred to herein as a First Born Approximation modeling procedure calculation or operation. The FBA model includes a calculation using measured EM fields taken before and after a fracturing operation to adjust parameters in the FBA model. This method may be referred to as a Born Scattering Inversion BSI operation.

The FBA is a mathematical approximation to Maxwell s equations the governing equations of electromagnetism that posits that the strength of an electromagnetic wavefield scattered by a localized contrast in material properties e.g. a proppant filled fracture in a geologic formation is linearly related to the strength of the incident electromagnetic wavefield and the magnitude of the contrast. This contrast can be described at various locations using a set of adjustable parameters in an FBA model.

The FBA modeling operation includes two successive executions of an electromagnetic modeling algorithm. In the first execution incident electromagnetic fields which may be referred to a primary EM fields at one or more predetermined locations in the volume of the Earth are calculated. In the second execution each of the predetermined locations are treated as an electromagnetic wavefield source sometimes referred to herein as a Born scatterer or a Born scattering source that is activated by the previously computed incident electromagnetic field waveforms. In the second execution scattered EM fields which may be referred to as secondary electromagnetic fields from the Born scatterers at the locations of the sensors at the surface of the Earth are computed.

The adjustable parameters of the FBA model are scaling values that determine a relation between the strength of the incident electromagnetic wavefield and the scattered electromagnetic field. The scaling values correspond to scattering amplitudes of a plurality of Born scatterers. The scattered electromagnetic fields are calculated using initial values such as unit values for the adjustable parameters or an estimated value of an EM parameter.

EM field data are measured or obtained before and after fracturing and proppant placement. The difference between the field data before during and or after the hydraulic fracturing operation is equivalent to a scattered EM field that is generated primarily by a change in the electromagnetic properties of some locations within a volume of Earth. The change in the EM properties at some of these locations can be the result of the presence of the proppant in the fracture. The difference between the measured field data before and after the hydraulic fracturing operation may therefore be compared to the calculated scattered EM fields from the Born scatterers to determine proppant or proppant pack location.

The field data are then used to adjust parameters of the FBA model so that the calculated scattered EM fields match the difference in the measured EM fields to within a predetermined or actively determined range. In some embodiments the adjusted values of the adjustable parameters are determined by the measured field data. In some embodiments adjusting the parameters may include a linear inverse operation that directly solves for the adjusted parameters. In another embodiment adjusting the parameters may be by another technique or operation that adjusts the strength of the parameters by such as but not limited to EM migration full waveform inversion and Monte Carlo techniques. The adjusted parameters for each location may indicate whether proppant is present at that location because the change in the EM properties at the locations of the Born scatterers is due to the presence or lack of proppant material at those locations.

In one illustrative example an adjusted parameter that is equal to zero for a Born scatterer may indicate that that Born scatterer is not located within a proppant filled fracture or that a fracture is not present. An adjusted parameter that is different than zero for another Born scatterer may indicate that that Born scatterer is located within a proppant filled fracture. The values of the adjusted parameters may therefore be used to determine a location shape size extent and or orientation of proppant in the fracture. In a modeling operation in which a three dimensional distribution of Born scatterers is used the values of the adjusted parameters may be used to form a three dimensional image of proppant within a fracture or elsewhere in a well system.

According to an embodiment a system is provided that includes a database and a processor that calculates EM field values receives measured EM field data and adjusts based on the measured EM field data the calculated EM field values. The database and processor may include one or more databases and or processors.

According to an embodiment the database stores a geophysical model of a volume of Earth including a geologic formation and a well bore a set of Born scatterer locations within the volume an EM model for simulating or calculating EM data and a set of sensor locations. The processor calculates the EM field values at the set of sensor locations using the EM model and the geophysical model and receives measured EM field data gathered at the set of sensor locations to adjust EM parameters. The electromagnetic model includes a first Born approximation model calculating a magnitudes a plurality of Born scatterers at a set of predetermined locations within the volume.

According to another embodiment the processor calculates the EM field values at a set of sensor locations by computing primary electric field values at the set of predetermined Born Scatterer locations within the volume and computing secondary electric field values at the set of sensor locations using the primary electric field values at the set of Born scatterer locations within the volume.

According to an embodiment a method is provided that includes determining a plurality of scattered electromagnetic field values using a model having adjustable parameters performing a hydraulic fracturing operation to create a fracture in a geologic formation providing an electromagnetically suitable proppant into the fracture gathering prior to the hydraulic fracturing operation a plurality of measured electromagnetic field values at a first plurality of sensor locations gathering with the electromagnetically suitable proppant in the fracture an additional plurality of measured electromagnetic field values at a second plurality of sensor locations determining a difference between the plurality of measured electromagnetic field values and the additional plurality of measured electromagnetic field values and modifying at least some of the adjustable parameters based on a comparison of the difference between the plurality of scattered electromagnetic field values taken before and after fracturing. The model includes a first Born approximation model portion. According to an embodiment the first plurality of sensor locations is the same as the second plurality of sensor locations. According to another embodiment the first plurality of sensor locations is different than the second plurality of sensor locations.

According to an embodiment a system is provided that includes a conductive well casing in a well bore that extends from the surface of the Earth to a geologic formation within the Earth an electricity source conductively coupled to the conductive well casing a proppant in a fracture in the geologic formation and conductively coupled to the well casing a plurality of sensors at a corresponding plurality of sensor locations wherein the sensors are configured to gather electromagnetic field data generated when a current is applied to the conductive well casing using the electricity source and computing equipment that includes memory that stores a plurality of electromagnetic field values at the plurality of sensor locations based on a first Born approximation model that includes a plurality of adjustable scaling factors and a processor configured to receive the electromagnetic field data from the plurality of sensors adjust the adjustable scaling factors based on the electromagnetic field data and generate an image of the proppant using the adjusted adjustable scaling factors.

According to an embodiment of the invention a system and method for imaging a fracture is disclosed that includes field acquisition of EM data insertion of favorable proppant material within the fracture computer processing and modeling of the recorded data and ultimately constructing a 3D image. Two sets of electromagnetic field data are acquired before and after a hydraulic fracturing operation. Recorded EM data consist of time series of components of the electric vector e x t the magnetic vector h x t or both observed at a set of receiver locations x.

According to an embodiment of the invention the field data acquisition method includes that the EM energy sources and sensors in both recording experiments occupy the same or similar positions. The other recording conditions e.g. EM energy source magnitudes waveforms and orientations EM receiver sensitivities and orientations recording system filters and sampling characteristics etc. are maintained identical or as closely as possible between the two data collections. Extraneous sources of EM energy should be minimized and ambient noise levels associated with the repeated experiments should be nearly the same. The intention is that the difference in recorded EM data from the two experiments is attributable solely to the presence of the proppant filled fracture. The method is not limited to any particular field data acquisition configuration. Rather EM energy sources and receivers may be deployed on the earth s surface or within subsurface boreholes vertical horizontal dipping . Line arrays areal arrays or even volumetric arrays as with multiple boreholes of EM sources and receivers may be utilized. However proximity of sources and receivers to the target of interest will enhance recorded EM signal levels and provide a better constrained inversion result.

According to another embodiment of the invention the EM energy sources and or sensors used before and after the fracturing and proppant placement are not located in the same positions but the data is interpolated to determine the difference in EM signals at the same geophysical locations.

After the fracture is induced it is injected with proppant material possessing EM characteristics that differ from the surrounding geologic formation. The salient EM properties are current conductivity electric permittivity and magnetic permeability . The proppant may be enhanced in any one or any combination including all three concurrently of these properties with respect to the surrounding medium. The stronger the EM material property contrast between the proppant and the geologic formation the stronger will be the scattered electromagnetic wavefield recorded in the post fracturing data acquisition experiment.

The basic data utilized for imaging of a proppant filled fracture consists of the difference in EM data recorded by pre fracture and post fracture field experiments. This difference data is directly modeled or simulated by a numerical algorithm based on the First Born Approximation FBA applied to electromagnetic wavefield propagation diffusion. The FBA posits that the strength of an EM wavefield scattered by a localized contrast in material properties like a proppant filled fracture is linearly related to the strength of the incident EM wavefield and the magnitude of the parameter contrast. FBA methodology involves two successive executions of an EM modeling algorithm. In the first run the EM wavefield incident onto a 3D target is recorded by a finite set of multi component EM receivers distributed over the volume occupied by the target. For the case of a hydraulic fracture initiated at a known point in a borehole a reasonable estimate of the location and extent of this volume is readily made. In the second FBA modeling run the receivers are considered EM wavefield sources activated by the incident EM waveforms. Source magnitudes are proportional to the EM property contrasts current conductivity electric permittivity magnetic permeability associated with the target material proppant in the fracture . The EM wavefield radiated from these sources often referred to as Born scattering sources is recorded by sensors located at the field data acquisition positions. An important consideration for both FBA modeling runs is that a good estimate of the 3D EM earth model supporting electromagnetic wave propagation is available. Any preferred numerical modeling methodology i.e. finite differences finite elements discontinuous Galerkin Green functions layered media propagators etc. may be utilized to calculate EM data. The fracture imaging approach described here is not dependent upon a particular numerical technique.

FBA modeling directly simulates the difference between EM data recorded by the two field experiments. Of course accurate agreement between calculated and observed data is not initially expected for two reasons i the 3D numerical earth model supporting EM wave propagation differs hopefully only slightly from the 3D true earth model and ii the strengths of the Born scattering sources located in the target volume are not known sufficiently precisely. In this step of the fracture imaging procedure the strengths of these sources are adjusted until calculated and observed EM data agree to within a prescribed tolerance. A common measure of data misfit is a weighted least squares difference between the observed EM time series data and the analogous data simulated by the FBA modeling approach. Recall that in this context the word data refers to the difference in EM time series data recorded by the pre and post fracture experiments. The described procedure constitutes a geophysical inverse problem whereby the strengths of the Born scattering sources are quantitatively inferred by minimizing the data misfit. In fact this is a linear inverse problem that is solved via relatively simple methods from linear algebra. The size or scale of the inverse problem is determined by the number of Born scattering sources equal to the number of multi component EM receivers distributed over the target volume which may range into the low thousands.

After the strengths of the many Born scattering sources are determined an image of the proppant filled fracture is obtained by visualizing with any preferred visualization software the 3D distribution of these Born scatterers. The visual image or map or picture is amplitude calibrated to distinguish the spatially variable scattering strengths. The visual image may be amplitude calibrated using a color plotting scheme. These strengths are proportional to the contrast in EM properties current conductivity electric permittivity and magnetic permeability possessed by the injected proppant relative to the surrounding geologic medium. In effect the fracture is defined by the 3D distribution of amplitude calibrated Born scattering sources. If the proppant does not have sufficient parameter contrast or if it not injected into remote parts of the hydraulic fracture then it will not be imaged via this technique. The disclosed procedure may be used to infer the spatial extent of proppant fill within a fracture.

Other aspects will be appreciated upon reading and understanding the attached figures and description.

Various technologies pertaining to modeling a fracture in a geologic formation will now be described with reference to the drawings where like reference numerals represent like elements throughout. In addition several functional block diagrams of exemplary systems are illustrated and described herein for purposes of explanation however it is to be understood that functionality that is described as being carried out by certain system components may be performed by multiple components. Similarly a component may be configured to perform functionality that is described as being carried out by multiple components. Additionally as used herein the term exemplary is intended to mean serving as an illustration or example and is not intended to indicate a preference.

As used herein the term component is intended to encompass computer readable data storage that is configured with computer executable instructions that cause certain functionality to be performed when executed by a processor. The computer executable instructions may include a routine a function or the like. It is also to be understood that a component or system may be localized on a single device or distributed across several devices.

With reference now to an extraction system system according to an embodiment of the disclosure is disclosed. The extraction system is configured to extract natural gas oil or geothermal resources by way of an induced fracture . The system includes a well bore which extends from the Earth s surface to a subsurface geologic formation formation that contains oil natural gas or geothermal resources. While the well bore is shown as being vertical in nature it is to be understood that the well bore and or the formation may be vertical horizontal dipping diagonal slanting or any combination of these. As is well known the well bore may extend generally vertical to reach the subsurface formation and then turn horizontal to extend horizontally or laterally through the formation. In such a configuration the induced fracture may extend vertically and or horizontally outward from the well bore . In an exemplary embodiment the formation may be several thousand feet below the surface of the Earth. Formation may for example consist of shale rock. A well casing may be positioned in the well bore and extend from the surface to or through to below the formation . The well casing can be installed in the well bore through utilization of any suitable method. Typically the well casing is formed of steel. A cement stabilizer may be formed to stabilize the well casing in the well bore . The cement stabilizer stabilizes the casing as fracture fluid and or a proppant is transferred to the formation possibly under high pressure. The cement stabilizer can also stabilize the well casing as natural gas oil or thermal fluids are extracted from the geologic formation by way of the well bore .

Through utilization of a fracturing fluid under high pressure a fracture including first portions and second portions is induced in the formation . In this exemplary embodiment the fracture is shown simplified as first and second portions however it should be understood that the fracture may contain several or multiple fractures extending horizontally vertically and at various angles and separate or branching from other induced fractures and combinations thereof. The fracture may extend laterally and vertically some distance in all directions from well bore . A proppant is directed down the well bore and fills or partially fills the first portions of the fracture thereby causing the first portions to remain open and thus causing the formation to be more permeable for fluid flow . The proppant filling the first portions may be referred to as a proppant pack filling the first portions of the fracture . The second portions of the fracture are not filled by proppant and are typically filled with water sand gas and or other rock particles from the surrounding formation .

An electric current source which typically resides on the Earth s surface is coupled to the casing at a current injection or current application point e.g. positioned near the bottom of well bore in contact with casing proximate to the geologic formation and the proppant filled fracture . In another embodiment the electric current source may reside on or below the surface. In another embodiment the current injection point may be located within geologic formation but not in contact with fracture portion or it may be located entirely outside geologic formation . Electric current is carried from the current source to the injection point via an insulated wire within the well bore . Alternately the insulated wire may be located on the exterior of the casing i.e. between casing and cement . In still another embodiment the electric current source may be located within well bore proximate to the current injection point . The electric current source may be configured to generate current waveforms of various types i.e. pulses continuous wave or repeating or periodic waveforms . Accordingly the well casing can be electrically energized and act as a spatially extended source of electric current.

Some of the electric current generated by the source can travel from the well casing through the proppant of the induced fracture of the geologic formation . Electromagnetic fields generated by the current in the well casing and that propagate to various locations in a volume of Earth can be altered by the presence of the proppant following the injection of the proppant into a fracture .

The proppant can be chosen to have electromagnetically suitable properties for generating propagating and or scattering electromagnetic fields that can be detected at the Earth s surface . For example the proppant may be chosen to have a particular electric permittivity magnetic permeability current conductivity and or other electromagnetic or mechanical properties that are different from the corresponding properties of the surrounding rock of formation . In this way a first portions of a fracture that is filled with proppant will have different electromagnetic properties from the second portions of the fracture not filled with proppant as well as the rock of the surrounding geologic formation . The proppant can for example be formed from an electrically conductive material to significantly enhance the electric conductivity of the first portions .

In one embodiment all of the proppant that is injected into the well bore and the fracture can be formed from the conductive proppant material. However this is merely illustrative. In various embodiments the proppant material can include portions having different electromagnetic properties in different portions of the well bore and or the fracture. For example in some circumstances it may be desirable to have conductive proppant in one portion of a fracture e.g. a portion of the fracture that is furthest from the well bore or a portion of the fracture that is nearest to the well bore and non conductive proppant in another portion of the fracture or in the well bore. In another example in may be desirable to have proppant material with continuously or discretely varying electromagnetic properties as a function of the position of the proppant material in the fracture.

Providing proppant material having differing electromagnetic properties e.g. non conductive and conductive proppant into a fracture may include mixing conductive materials of differing concentrations into the proppant material as it is injected into the well bore in continuously or discretely varying time intervals or may include first injecting conductive proppant into the well bore followed by injecting non conductive proppant as examples . In an embodiment the proppant may include both conductive and nonconductive proppant materials. For example the first five ten or twenty percent of the proppant material that is provided into the well bore may be conductive proppant and the remaining ninety five ninety or eighty percent of the proppant material that is provided into the well bore may be non conductive proppant so that only the fracture or only a leading portion of the fracture may be filled with the conductive portion of the proppant material. It should be appreciated that these examples are merely illustrative and that in general any electromagnetically suitable proppant material can be provided.

Electric current source situated on the Earth s surface generates electric current that flows down the insulated wire to the current injection point proximate to geologic formation and the proppant filled first fracture portions contained therein. As the injection point is in direct physical contact with the well casing and the proppant filled first fracture portions electric current can flow from injection point to the conductive well casing and the conductive proppant filled fracture first portions . Current flow within well casing is generally vertically upwards and downwards from injection point whereas it is laterally outwards into geologic formation within the proppant filled first fracture portions . Electromagnetic fields generated by the currents in both the well casing and the proppant propagate to various locations in a three dimensional volume of Earth. In another embodiment the electric current source may be located on or below the Earth s surface.

Electric currents associated with the electromagnetic waves flow generally toward the current grounding point situated on the Earth s surface . In another embodiment grounding point may be located on or slightly beneath the Earth s surface near to or far from the well bore . In another embodiment grounding point can be located beneath the surface in another borehole that is relatively near to or far from the well and extraction system and or geologic formation system . The another borehole may or may not be used in the fracturing process. Grounding point is connected to the electric current source via the insulated wire . In this manner the insulated wire current injection device well casing proppant filled fracture first fracture portions electromagnetic waves propagating within the Earth grounding device and insulating wire constitute a closed loop that carries electric current from and ultimately back to the electric current source . In an embodiment the insulated wire may be shielded.

One or more sensors such as sensors are positioned on the surface of the Earth. In another embodiment one or more sensors may be positioned on above or below the surface . Sensors are used to detect electromagnetic fields such as the electromagnetic waves that propagate from the energized well casing and the proppant filled fracture first portions to the sensors . Sensors include a transducer not shown for sensing an EM wave. The sensors may include one or more antennas and receiver circuitry for transmitting processing digitizing or otherwise handling electromagnetic field data.

Sensors may be located at corresponding locations such as sensor locations L and L. Sensors may be deployed in a one two or three dimensional distribution at or near surface . For example sensors may be positioned on surface beneath surface and or suspended or mounted above surface . Additionally sensors may be deployed in various other subsurface boreholes located near to or at some distance away from the geologic formation . In various embodiments the optimal locations of sensors for detecting electromagnetic fields can be determined through numerical modeling. Sensors may include various types of physical transducers appropriate for detecting electric fields and or magnetic fields and converting these physical signals to voltage that are subsequently forwarded to the data recording system . In particular sensors commonly used for geophysical exploration or characterization purposes e.g. porous pots metal electrodes electric magnetic pickup coils antennas may be used.

Sensors are connected to the data recording system . The data recording system has the capability to receive amplify filter digitize process and otherwise handle the voltage signals generated by sensors in response to the incident electromagnetic waves . Additionally data recording system may store these digitized and processed signals on an appropriate recording medium contained therein. Alternately the data recording system may transmit the received signals to computing equipment where additional processing operations may be conducted and the data are stored therein. The computing equipment may be located proximate to the data recording system or it may be situated in a remote location. Transmission of data between the recording system and computing equipment may be via an electrical wire or via radio transmission techniques.

In certain embodiments a sensor a data recording system and computing equipment may be incorporated into a single physical package or unit capable of being deployed either on the Earth s surface or within a subsurface borehole. In this manner the separate functions of signal transduction amplification filtering digitizing processing etc. and storage are contained within one physical device

Computing equipment may be used to store a geophysical geological model representing the three dimensional volume of the Earth supporting the propagating electromagnetic waves which includes the particular geologic formation containing the fracture . It may also store data corresponding to the known location of the current injection point as well as the known amplitude and waveform of the electric current generated by the current source . It may also store the known three dimensional configuration of the well bore with associated casing and cement and the known locations of the electromagnetic sensors . It may also store data corresponding to the locations of a number of Born scatterers in a subsurface volume of the Earth.

Computing equipment may also store numerical algorithms appropriate for calculating various electromagnetic fields including those incident on surface sensors as with the electromagnetic waves incident on subsurface Born scattering locations or scattered by these subsurface Born scatterers. Computing equipment may also possess numerical algorithms and for receiving electromagnetic field data from sensors and or the recording system adjusting the parameters of the First Born Approximation model of the subsurface using these received electromagnetic data and determining the location and geometry of the proppant within the fracture using these adjusted parameters. Computing equipment may be used to generate an image of the proppant filled portions of the fracture using appropriate visualization software by plotting in three dimensional space the magnitudes of the Born scatterers. Computing equipment may perform all suitable computing analysis numerical simulation data processing and visualization functions associated with a Born Scattering Inversion BSI procedure for imaging the proppant filled portions of fracture .

Sensors may be used to gather electromagnetic field data before during and after the hydraulic fracturing and proppant injection operations. Equipment such as drilling and extraction equipment for creating reinforcing pumping extracting or other drilling and or extraction operations may be present in the vicinity of the well bore . The locations of computing equipment should be maintained during gathering of all electromagnetic field data by sensors so that electrically conductive equipment does not move or change operations and thus undesirably alter the electromagnetic fields to be measured. In this way changes in measured electromagnetic fields before and after the hydraulic fracturing and proppant insertion operations can be primarily or completely attributed to the presence of the proppant pack within the fracture thereby increasing the likelihood that the First Born Approximation is applicable to the scattered electromagnetic fields.

It can therefore be ascertained that by electrically energizing the well casing via the current insertion device to cause it to act as a source of electric current an electromagnetic field can be induced and recorded by sensors at the surface of the Earth. These recordings taken before and after fracturing and proppant insertion can subsequently be used to adjust the parameters of a First Born Approximation model of the scattered electromagnetic field and thereby indicate the location and geometry of the proppant filled portion of the fracture within geologic formation . As used herein the term geometry can refer to the size shape length height width orientation etc. portions of the proppant filled portions of the fracture . Orientation can refer to the orientation of at least a portion of the proppant filled fracture relative to the surface or the well bore in the subsurface. The term location can refer to the position of the fracture portion relative to the surface the well bore and or the current injection point .

With reference now to a portion of geologic formation is shown prior to a hydraulic fracturing operation. As shown in one or more Born scatterers may be defined in a geophysical model of the Earth at various locations e.g. scatterer locations L L etc. in a volume of the Earth in and around the geologic formation . Scatterer locations such as locations L and L can be chosen based on a geophysical model of the geologic formation and any a priori knowledge of the intended fracturing operation. Scatterer locations can be chosen at any suitable number of locations in and around geologic formation . As examples one scatterer location two scatterer locations more than two scatterer locations ten scatterer locations one hundred scatterer locations one thousand scatterer locations more than one thousand scatterer locations tens of thousands of scatter locations between a hundred and a thousand scatter locations or any other suitable number of scatterer locations can be chosen. At each scatterer location a Born scatterer may be defined for use in the first Born approximation model.

In an electromagnetic field modeling operation using a first Born approximation model such as a Born Scattering Inversion operation a geophysical model of the volume of the Earth in the location of the well bore geologic formation and fracture is used to calculate primary electromagnetic fields sometimes referred to herein as incident electromagnetic fields at the scatterer locations. In an embodiment the geophysical model may include the location of the well casing and electricity source. In a first modeling run the Born scatterers are considered to be receivers of the primary electromagnetic fields.

According to the FBA model a perturbation in the electromagnetic properties of the Earth at the locations of the Born scatterers will generate secondary electromagnetic fields sometimes referred to herein as scattered electromagnetic fields . Because electromagnetically suitable proppant is provided in a fracture a fracture can be modeled as a perturbation in the electromagnetic properties of some of the Born scatterers.

As shown in when a fracture is induced in the geologic formation the fracture may pass through some of the scatterer locations . Scatter locations include scatter locations in the proppant filled facture P and scatter locations outside of the proppant filled fracture F. Proppant having electromagnetic properties e.g. electric permittivity magnetic permeability and or current conductivity that are different from the corresponding properties of the geologic formation may be located at the locations of those scatterers P.

The EM properties at scatterer locations P will change significantly after the introduction of proppant into the fracture. However the EM properties at scatterers F located at the fracture but away from the proppant and at scatterers located away from the fracture will change less than the change of the properties at scatterers P or may not change at all.

As described above in connection with the first Born approximation is an approximation in which the scattered electromagnetic field is proportional to the change in the electromagnetic properties at the Born scatterers and the incident electromagnetic fields on those Born scattering locations.

Therefore given the primary or incident electromagnetic fields at the locations of the Born scatterers and an initial estimate of the electromagnetic properties of the material at those locations represented for example by a set of initial values of the adjustable parameters secondary or scattered electromagnetic fields generated by the Born scatterers in response to the primary electromagnetic fields can be calculated. Secondary electromagnetic fields at the locations of sensors can be generated by for example summing the contribution of all Born scatterers in and around the geologic formation .

Two sets of measured electromagnetic field data from the sensors are acquired e.g. before and after a hydraulic fracturing operation for comparison to the calculated scattered fields. The difference in the measured electromagnetic field data from the two measurements may be attributable solely or primarily to the presence of the proppant filled fracture. The difference in the measured electromagnetic field data can therefore be used to adjust the calculated scattered electromagnetic field by adjusting parameters corresponding to the electromagnetic properties of the Born scatterers.

Measured observed electromagnetic field data gathered at a particular time t may include a measured voltage difference V x t and or time derivative of magnetic induction b x t t observed at a set of sensor locations x e.g. a three dimensional position vector representing a sensor location such as one of sensor locations L or L of from which an electric field vector e x t and or a measured magnetic field vector h x t may be determined or inferred.

Calculated primary or incident electromagnetic field data may include a calculated primary electric field vector e x t a magnetic field vector h x t or both computed at a set of Born scatterer locations x e.g. a three dimensional position vector representing a scatterer location such as one of scatterer locations L or L of .

Calculated secondary or scattered electromagnetic field data may include an electric field vector e t x t a magnetic field vector h x t or both computed at the set of sensor locations x e.g. a three dimensional position vector representing a sensor location such as locations L or L of . The secondary electromagnetic field data are determined by computing effective EM body sources at each scatterer location x using the primary electric fields e x t magnetic fields h x t or both and a set of adjustable parameters representing the change in the electromagnetic properties of the Born scatterer at that scatterer location x. The effective body sources and the set of adjustable parameters may be used to compute the secondary electromagnetic fields by inserting the effective body sources and the set of adjustable parameters into any suitable EM forward modeling algorithm modified for the First Born Approximation. Suitable forward modeling algorithms may include the well known EH system of partial differential electromagnetic wave equations solved via explicit time domain finite difference techniques or any other appropriate numerical solution methodology. Other suitable forward modeling algorithms may include Green function or potential formulations appropriately modified for the FBA.

The set of adjustable parameters may include a change in current conductivity x a change in electric permittivity x and or a change in magnetic permeability x at each scatterer location xor a change in all three or any combination of these parameters.

The effective body sources may include a current density vector j x t a magnetic induction vector b x t and or an electric displacement vector x t at each scatterer location x. In the FBA model the effective body sources and therefore the secondary electromagnetic fields generated by the effective body sources are proportional to the incident electromagnetic field. For example in the FBA model the current density vector j x t is the product of the incident electric field and the change in the current conductivity e.g. j x t x e x t the magnetic induction vector b x t is the product of the incident magnetic field and the change in the permeability e.g. b x t x h x t and the displacement vector d x t is the product of the incident electric field and the change in the permittivity e.g. d x t x e x t .

Because the electromagnetic properties of the Earth at some of the Born scatterer locations change after insertion of proppant into the fracture the secondary or scattered electromagnetic fields once computed can be adjusted to match the change in the electromagnetic fields observed at the sensor locations. This may be accomplished by modifying the adjustable parameters in a First Born Approximation model of the secondary or scattered electromagnetic fields by for example a linear estimation of the adjustable parameters that produce the best fit to the observed change in electromagnetic fields.

During a field data acquisition operation electromagnetic energy sources and sensors in both recording measurements may occupy the same positions. Recording conditions e.g. electromagnetic energy source magnitudes waveforms and orientations electromagnetic receiver sensitivities and orientations recording system amplifiers filters and sampling characteristics etc. may also be maintained as closely as possible between the two data collections.

In some circumstances the sensors may be moved from a first set of sensor locations to a second set of sensor locations for the gathering of electromagnetic field data before the fracturing operation and after the proppant has been provided into a fracture. In these circumstances mathematical methods may be used to translate rotate interpolate or otherwise determine measured and or modeled electromagnetic fields at the first and or second sets of sensor locations or to estimate measured and or modeled electromagnetic fields at one of the first or second sets of sensor locations based on determined modeled and or measured electromagnetic fields at the other of the first and or second sets of sensor locations. However this is merely illustrative. In various embodiments the sensor locations remain the same for all measurements of electromagnetic fields and all determinations of modeled electromagnetic fields in order to reduce the computational burden of the modeling operation and to help ensure that the change in the electromagnetic fields is primarily due to the introduction of the proppant.

In some embodiments a contribution to the secondary electromagnetic fields from each Born scatterer may be individually computed in a separate modeling run. However this is merely illustrative. In some embodiments contributions to the secondary electromagnetic fields from each of several groups of Born scatterers may be computed in a corresponding modeling run. In one embodiment the contribution of all of the Born scatterers may be computed in a single modeling run. The total secondary electromagnetic field at each sensor location is the sum of the contributions of each Born scatterer.

The examples of are cross sectional diagrammatic views. However it should be appreciated that Born scatterers can be distributed in a three dimensional manner in the volume of Earth in and around the geologic formation.

As shown in for a particular Born scatterer an incident primary electric field vector e.g. e e e e in the coordinate system of may be computed in for example a first modeling run. In a second modeling run a current density e.g. j j j j may be computed. The current density may be used to compute a scattered secondary electric field at the location of one or more of sensors of .

With reference now to an embodiment of a data flow and computation system is shown for determining the location of proppant and or imaging the proppant in a fracture in a geologic formation. As shown in the system includes a data store a primary field modeling engine a secondary field modeling engine a measured data processing engine a data fitting engine and an image generation engine .

Data store primary field modeling engine secondary field modeling engine measured data processing engine data fitting engine and image generation engine may be implemented on common computing equipment or one or more separate installations of computing equipment. In one embodiment primary field modeling engine secondary field modeling engine and some or all of data store may be located remotely from a drill site at which a well bore is located and measured data processing engine data fitting engine and image generation engine may be located at the drill site e.g. incorporated into computing equipment depicted in . However this is merely illustrative. In various embodiments data store primary field modeling engine secondary field modeling engine measured data processing engine data fitting engine and image generation engine may be included in computing equipment see or implemented on any suitable computing equipment near to or remote from the drill site.

As shown in primary field modeling engine and secondary field modeling engine may be communicatively coupled to data store . If desired other portions of system of may also be communicatively coupled to data store . For example primary field modeling engine secondary field modeling engine and or any other portion of the system of may have read and or write access to memory and information stored on data store .

Data store may be used to store a geophysical model an electric current source model one or more Born scatterer locations one or more sensor types and locations modeled and or measured electromagnetic field data and or other pertinent information data numerical algorithms and or computer readable instructions for use in the system of .

Geophysical model may include stored data that describes the three dimensional size shape and location of physical structures such as geologic formations the Earth s surface the well bore the well casing layers of rock soil and or water between the fractured geologic formation of and the surface drilling and extraction equipment at the drill site other physical structures and the electromagnetic properties e.g. conductivity permeability permittivity etc. of these structures.

Electromagnetic EM data stored on data store may include modeled i.e. calculated EM data and or measured EM data . Measured EM data may be provided to data store from the EM data recording system which may be physically located near the well site as illustrated in . In addition to modeled and measured data the data store may hold executable code representing a First Born Approximation modeling process having a set of adjustable parameters P e.g. a conductivity change parameter x a permittivity change parameter x and or a permeability change parameter x at each scatterer location x .

When executed by one or more processors using geophysical model electric current source model scatterer locations and sensor locations an electromagnetic forward modeling engine may provide calculated or modeled electromagnetic field values as functions of time t at selected locations. Electromagnetic field values may be computed by primary field modeling engine and or the secondary field modeling engine using any suitable numerical modeling approach e.g. a finite differences process a finite elements process a discontinuous Galerkin process a Green function process a layered media propagator process or any other suitable numerical computation process .

Primary field modeling engine is used to calculate primary electromagnetic EM field data e.g. primary or incident electromagnetic field values at one or more Born scattering locations xwithin a volume of the Earth that includes at least a portion of the geologic formation to be fractured. Modeled primary field data may include a predicted primary electric field e x t and or a predicted primary magnetic field h x t as functions of time t at scatterer locations x. Modeled primary field data may be computed using geophysical model electric current source model and scatterer locations stored in data store .

Secondary field modeling engine is used to calculate secondary electromagnetic EM field data e.g. secondary or scattered electromagnetic field values at one or more sensor locations xdistributed on the Earth s surface as with sensors in or within the Earth s subsurface. Modeled secondary field data may include a predicted secondary electric field vector e x t P and or a predicted magnetic field vector h x t P as functions of time t at sensor locations x. These modeled secondary electromagnetic fields are also functions of adjustable parameters P related to the strengths of the Born scattering sources. Modeled secondary field data may be computed using geophysical model electric current source model scatterer locations and sensor locations and stored in data store .

Sensor locations utilized by the primary and secondary field modeling engines represent locations L and L of sensors illustrated in and which also correspond to the locations of EM sensors in . These sensors are used to measure electromagnetic EM field data before and after hydraulic fracturing and proppant insertion operations.

EM sensors forward measured data to the EM data recording system where these data are stored on appropriate recording media. For example EM sensors are used to gather electromagnetic field data prior to a hydraulic fracturing and proppant insertion and to gather electromagnetic field data after hydraulic fracturing and proppant insertion. These two measured EM datasets are referenced by letters A and B in which may stand for EM data measured after and before fracturing and proppant insertion respectively. Measured data may include an electric field vector e x t A and B and or a magnetic field vector h x t A and B observed at sensor locations x and are collectively referred to as two measured EM datasets at sensor locations . The two sets of measured EM data may be different due primarily or completely to the addition of proppant filled fractures in geologic formation of .

The two measured EM datasets at sensor locations referenced by letters A and B are provided to measured data processing engine . Measured data processing engine may receive these datasets via two alternate routes or pathways. In the first instance EM data recording system forwards these data directly to measured data processing engine in real time or near real time as the EM data are measured. In the second instance EM data recording engine forwards these data to data store where they are held in computational memory as measured EM data for later access by the measured data processing engine .

Measured data processing engine may be used to perform various signal processing operations on the two measured EM data sets A and B in order to enhance signal quality suppress noise etc. Measured data processing engine is then used to generate measured change EM data at sensor locations based on the two measured EM datasets at sensor locations referenced by A and B . The measured change EM data may for example include a difference i.e. a subtraction of datasets A and B. The measured change data may include an electric vector e x t and or a magnetic vector h x t . The measured change EM data at sensor locations represents the scattered portion of the measured electromagnetic field data generated by the presence of proppant in the fracture.

Modeled secondary EM data at sensor locations e.g. calculated secondary electromagnetic field data at the sensor locations based on an FBA modeling approach and measured change EM data at sensor locations e.g. measured scattered electromagnetic field data at the sensor locations are provided to the data fitting engine . Because modeled secondary EM data is generated using an initial set of adjustable parameters P that have not been informed by any measured information about a proppant filled fracture the modeled secondary EM data and the measured change EM data may be different.

Data fitting engine is used to adjust the adjustable parameters e.g. a set of parameters P corresponding to electromagnetic properties of material at the Born scatterer locations x until the modeled secondary EM data at sensor locations has been modified to match the measured change EM data at sensor locations to within a predetermined or actively determined range. In one embodiment a weighted least squares difference may be used to quantify the degree of misfit between modeled data and measured data . The particular set of parameters PFIT that minimizes the weighted least squares difference may be solved for using well known procedures from linear algebra. However this is merely illustrative. In various other embodiments any suitable data fitting procedure may be used to adjust the set of adjustable parameters P until an adequate fit between the modeled secondary EM data and the measured change EM data is obtained. The particular set of parameters that provides the best fit i.e. the minimum misfit constitutes the optimum parameters PFIT.

The optimum set of adjustable parameters i.e. fitted parameter set PFIT that results in the modeled secondary EM data that best matches the measured change EM data may be provided to image generation engine . Image generation engine may use the optimum parameters to determine the location of proppant within a fracture and or to generate a two or three dimensional image of the proppant pack. Because the adjustable parameters P each are proportional to the amount of change in an electromagnetic property of the material at a Born scatterer location the values of the optimum parameters PFIT themselves can be used to construct a proppant image . The scatterer locations xserve as effective image pixel in two dimensions or voxel in three dimensions coordinates. However this is merely illustrative. In various embodiments image generation engine may perform image processing operations such as scaling enhancement smoothing filtering or other image processing operations to form the proppant image .

Image may be generated in near real time immediately after a hydraulic fracturing operation to provide a drilling manager or team with a three dimensional image of the proppant inserted into the fracture. This image can then be immediately used to guide further fracturing and proppant insertion operations.

At block electromagnetic fields in the vicinity of a hydraulic fracture before and after the fracture is generated may be measured. The hydraulic fracture may include a proppant material having electromagnetic properties configured to enhance the detectability of the surface electromagnetic fields. Surface electromagnetic fields may also be measured during a hydraulic fracturing operation to create the hydraulic fracture. The hydraulic fracture may be generated in a geologic formation in a volume of the Earth.

At block the parameters of an FBA model of the surface electromagnetic fields may be adjusted using the measured surface electromagnetic fields. The parameters may be adjusted by computing a difference between the measured surface electromagnetic fields before and after the fracture is generated comparing modeled electromagnetic fields computed using the first Born approximation model to the measured surface electromagnetic fields and adjusting the parameters based on the comparison. The parameters may each correspond to a change in an electromagnetic property of a material such as rock or proppant at the location of a Born scatterer.

At block the location of proppant such as a proppant pack in the fracture may be determined using the adjusted parameters. The size shape and orientation of the proppant pack within a fracture formation may also be determined using the adjusted parameters.

At block an image such as a three dimensional image of the proppant pack may be generated using the adjusted parameters.

Further details of operations that may be performed for modeling a hydraulic fracture in a geologic formation are shown in .

At step first measured electromagnetic field values are gathered using a plurality of sensors. The plurality of sensors may be located at or near the surface of the Earth as described above in connection with for example . Additionally sensors may be deployed in boreholes in the subsurface of the Earth.

At step an electromagnetically suitable proppant pack is provided into the fracture generated by the hydraulic fracturing operation. The proppant pack may partially or completely fill the fracture. The proppant material may have an electric permittivity a magnetic permeability a current conductivity and or another electromagnetic property that is different from the corresponding property of the surrounding geologic formation. The proppant may be provided such that the proppant pack is coupled to a well casing used in the hydraulic fracturing operation and receives electric current from an electricity source affixed to the well casing.

At step second measured electromagnetic field values are gathered using the same plurality of sensors.

At step the change in electromagnetic field values observed at the sensor locations is modeled using a First Born Approximation FBA process having adjustable parameters. The adjustable parameters correspond to changes in the electromagnetic properties of a set of Born scatterers in the FBA model.

At step the parameters of the First Born Approximation model are adjusted based on the modeled change field values and the first and second measured field values. For example the modeled i.e. predicted change field values may be adjusted to minimize the difference between the modeled change field values and the measured change field values i.e. the difference between the first and second measured field values by adjusting the FBA model parameters.

At step the location of the proppant pack may be determined based on the adjusted parameters of the FBA model.

At step an image such as a two or three dimensional image of the proppant pack may be generated using the adjusted parameters.

Still further details of operations that may be performed for modeling electromagnetic fields scattered by a proppant filled hydraulic fracture in a geologic formation and forming a three dimensional image of that fracture are shown in .

At step modeled primary or incident electric and or magnetic field values at a set of predetermined locations in a volume of the Earth are determined using a geophysical model. The geophysical model may include a geologic formation that is located at least partially within the volume other layers of the Earth the Earth s surface a well bore a well casing and or other geophysical and geological features within the volume. The set of predetermined locations may be locations within or near the geologic formation at which corresponding Born scattering sources have been defined in a First Born Approximation FBA modeling approach.

At step modeled secondary or scattered electric and or magnetic field values at the locations of a set of sensors are determined using the geophysical model the modeled primary electromagnetic field values at the set of predetermined locations and a First Born Approximation modeling process with adjustable parameters.

At step measured first electric and or magnetic field values are gathered using a plurality of sensors.

At step after the first measured electric and or magnetic field values have been gathered a hydraulic fracturing operation is performed. The hydraulic fracturing operation may be performed in a portion of the geologic formation within the volume.

At step an electromagnetically suitable proppant pack is provided into the fracture generated by the hydraulic fracturing operation.

At step following the providing of the proppant into the fracture second measured electric and or magnetic field values are gathered using the plurality of sensors.

At step difference values may be generated from the first and second measured electric and or magnetic field values. The difference values may be determined by for example subtracting the second measured values from the first measured values at each sensor. However this is merely illustrative. In various embodiments other differencing correlation or comparison techniques may be used to determine a change in the second measured electromagnetic fields with respect to the first measured electromagnetic fields.

At step the measured difference values are compared to the modeled secondary electric and or magnetic field values from step . Comparing the difference values to the modeled secondary electric and or magnetic field values may include determining an additional difference between the measured difference values and the modeled secondary electric and or magnetic field values for each sensor computing a sum of the squares of these additional differences computing a weighted sum of the squares of these additional differences computing a sum of absolute values of these additional differences or otherwise quantitatively comparing these additional differences.

At step adjustable parameters of a First Born Approximation FBA model may be adjusted based on the previous comparison of the measured difference values and the modeled secondary electric and or magnetic field values. Adjusting the parameters may include modifying some or all of the parameters from initial values in order to modify the modeled secondary or scattered electric and or magnetic fields to match the measured difference values to within a given tolerance. For example the parameters may be adjusted to minimize the weighted sum of the squares of the differences between the measured difference values and the modeled secondary electric and or magnetic field values for each sensor. Adjusting the parameters may change the contribution of each of the Born scattering sources to the modeled secondary electric and or magnetic fields by adjusting the corresponding contrast in one or more electromagnetic material properties at the location of each Born scattering source.

At step the location size shape orientation or other properties of the proppant pack in the fracture may be determined based on the adjusted parameters.

At step an image such as a two or three dimensional image of the proppant pack may be generated using the adjusted parameters. The image may be amplitude calibrated e.g. using a color plotting scheme to distinguish the spatially variable Born scattering strengths represented by the adjusted parameters.

At step the fracture formation and or the proppant placement resulting from the hydraulic fracturing operation may be evaluated using the determined location size shape orientation and or the image of the proppant pack.

Now referring to a high level illustration of an exemplary computing device that can be used in accordance with the systems and methodologies disclosed herein is illustrated. For instance the computing device may be used in a system that supports computing estimates of electromagnetic fields induced by an energized well casing and proppant filled fracture in a well system using a first Born approximation model. In another example at least a portion of the computing device may be used in a system that supports estimating a size location length orientation and or image of proppant within an induced fracture in a geologic formation beneath the surface of the Earth. The computing device includes at least one processor that executes instructions that are stored in a memory . The memory may be or include RAM ROM EEPROM Flash memory or other suitable memory. The instructions may be for instance instructions for implementing functionality described as being carried out by one or more components discussed above or instructions for implementing one or more of the methods described above. The processor may access the memory by way of a system bus . In addition to storing executable instructions the memory may also store computer implemented models of well casing s and or fracture s values indicative of an amount of electric current applied to a well casing values indicative of a location on a well casing where electric current is applied sensor locations scatterer locations a first Born approximation model having adjustable parameters etc.

The computing device additionally includes a data store that is accessible by the processor by way of the system bus . The data store may be or include any suitable computer readable storage including a hard disk memory etc. The data store may include executable instructions computer implemented models etc. The computing device also includes an input interface that allows external devices to communicate with the computing device . For instance the input interface may be used to receive instructions from an external computer device a user etc. The computing device also includes an output interface that interfaces the computing device with one or more external devices. For example the computing device may display text images etc. on a display by way of the output interface .

Additionally while illustrated as a single system it is to be understood that the computing device may be a distributed system. Thus for instance several devices may be in communication by way of a network connection and may collectively perform tasks described as being performed by the computing device .

In accordance with an embodiment a system is provided that includes a database that stores a geophysical model of a volume of Earth including a geologic formation and a well bore a set of locations within the volume an electromagnetic model and a set of sensor locations and a processor configured to predict electromagnetic field values at the set of sensor locations using the electromagnetic model and the geophysical model receive measured electromagnetic field data gathered at the set of sensor locations and adjust based on the measured electromagnetic field data the predicted electromagnetic field values.

In accordance with another embodiment the processor is further configured to determine a location of a proppant in a fracture in the geologic formation using the adjusted predicted electromagnetic field values.

In accordance with another embodiment the processor is further configured to generate an image of the proppant using the adjusted predicted electromagnetic field values.

In accordance with another embodiment the electromagnetic model includes a first Born approximation model having a plurality of Born scatterers at the set of locations within the volume.

In accordance with another embodiment the processor is configured to predict the electromagnetic field values by computing primary electric field values at the set of locations within the volume and computing secondary electric field values at the set of sensor locations using the primary electric field values at the set of locations within the volume.

In accordance with another embodiment the first Born approximation model includes a plurality of adjustable parameters each corresponding to an electromagnetic property of a material at one of the set of locations within the volume.

In accordance with another embodiment the processor is configured to adjust the predicted electromagnetic field values by adjusting the plurality of adjustable parameters.

In accordance with another embodiment the system further includes a plurality of sensors at the set of sensor locations and processor is configured to receive the measured electromagnetic field data from the plurality of sensors.

In accordance with another embodiment the measured electromagnetic field data includes electromagnetic field data gathered before and after a hydraulic fracturing operation in the geologic formation using the well bore.

In accordance with another embodiment the processor is configured to adjust the plurality of adjustable parameters such that the secondary electric field values at the set of sensor locations match a difference between the electromagnetic field data gathered before and after the hydraulic fracturing operation to within a predetermined range.

In accordance with an embodiment a method is provided that includes determining a plurality of scattered electromagnetic field values using a model having adjustable parameters performing a hydraulic fracturing operation to create a fracture in a geologic formation providing an electromagnetically suitable proppant into the fracture gathering prior to the hydraulic fracturing operation a plurality of measured electromagnetic field values at a first plurality of sensor locations gathering with the electromagnetically suitable proppant in the fracture an additional plurality of measured electromagnetic field values at a second plurality of sensor locations determining a difference between the plurality of measured electromagnetic field values and the additional plurality of measured electromagnetic field values and modifying at least some of the adjustable parameters based on a comparison of the difference with the plurality of scattered electromagnetic field values.

In accordance with another embodiment the model includes a first Born approximation model the first plurality of sensor locations is the same as the second plurality of sensor locations and determining the plurality of scattered electromagnetic field values using the model having the adjustable parameters includes determining a plurality of primary electromagnetic field values at a set of predetermined locations within a volume of Earth that at least partially includes a geologic formation and determining the plurality of scattered electromagnetic field values at the first plurality of sensor locations using the first Born approximation model and using the determined plurality of primary electromagnetic fields.

In accordance with another embodiment the method further includes applying an electric current to a well bore that extends from a surface of the Earth to the geologic formation.

In accordance with another embodiment modifying the at least some of the adjustable parameters based on the comparison of the plurality of scattered electromagnetic field values with the difference includes determining a set of adjusted parameters that minimize an additional difference between the difference and the determined plurality of scattered electromagnetic field values.

In accordance with another embodiment the method further includes determining a location of the proppant within the fracture using the set of adjusted parameters and the set of predetermined locations within the volume.

In accordance with another embodiment the first Born approximation model includes a plurality of Born scatterers each located at one of the set of predetermined locations within the volume.

In accordance with another embodiment the method further includes generating an image of the proppant within the fracture using the set of adjusted parameters and the set of predetermined locations within the volume.

In accordance with an embodiment a system is provided that includes a conductive well casing in a well bore that extends from a surface of Earth to a geologic formation within the Earth an electricity source conductively coupled to the conductive well casing a proppant in a fracture in the geologic formation and conductively coupled to the well casing a plurality of sensors at a corresponding plurality of sensor locations where the sensors are configured to gather electromagnetic field data generated when a current is applied to the conductive well casing using the electricity source and computing equipment including memory that stores a plurality of predicted electromagnetic field values at the plurality of sensor locations based on a first Born approximation model that includes a plurality of adjustable scaling factors and a processor configured to receive the electromagnetic field data from the plurality of sensors adjust the adjustable scaling factors based on the electromagnetic field data and generate an image of the proppant using the adjusted adjustable scaling factors.

In accordance with another embodiment the adjustable scaling factors include scattering amplitudes of a corresponding plurality of Born scatterers.

It is noted that several examples have been provided for purposes of explanation. These examples are not to be construed as limiting the hereto appended claims. Additionally it may be recognized that the examples provided herein may be permutated while still falling under the scope of the claims.

