---

title: Providing conference call aid based on upcoming deadline
abstract: Providing a conference call aid based on an upcoming deadline may be provided. In some examples, an application, such as a task management application, detects an expiration of a join duration from a start time of a meeting. In response to the expiration, a late invitee to the meeting is identified. Next, a communication modality to communicate with the late invitee is identified. Furthermore, a communication with the late invitee is established based on the communication modality. A notification to join the meeting is transmitted to the late invitee. The late invitee is notified to join the meeting through the communication.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09628629&OS=09628629&RS=09628629
owner: MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING, LLC
number: 09628629
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151207
---
Conference calls allow people or parties to participate in a single conversation. The conference calls may couple several locations with use of a communication channel. At each location there may be several people or parties to the conversation. Each location may include for example a conventional telephone set used by a single party or a conventional speakerphone used by the parties. The communication channel supporting the conference call may include a conventional switched telephone network or a wireless communication link for example. Conference calls however fail to identify late participating parties during the telephone conference calls.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This summary is not intended to exclusively identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Embodiments are directed to providing a conference call aid based on an upcoming deadline. In some examples an application such as a task management application may detect an expiration of a join duration from a start time of a meeting. In response a late invitee to the meeting may be identified. The task management application may detect a communication modality to communicate with the late invitee and may establish a communication with the late invitee based on the communication modality. A notification to join the meeting may be transmitted to the late invitee. The notification may prompt the late invitee to join the meeting through the communication.

These and other features and advantages will be apparent from a reading of the following detailed description and a review of the associated drawings. It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are explanatory and do not restrict aspects as claimed.

As briefly described above providing a conference call aid based on an upcoming deadline may be provided. In some examples an application such as a task management application may detect an expiration of a join duration from a start time of a meeting. In response to the expiration a late invitee to the meeting may be identified. The late invitee may be a person who is absent from the meeting.

Next a communication modality to communicate with the late invitee may be detected. The communication modality may be identified from a communication type associated with the late invitee. A communication with the late invitee may be established based on the communication modality. Furthermore a notification to join the meeting may be transmitted to the late invitee. The notification may prompt the late invitee to join the meeting through the communication.

In the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustrations specific embodiments or examples. These aspects may be combined other aspects may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

While some embodiments will be described in the general context of program modules that execute in conjunction with an application program that runs on an operating system on a personal computer those skilled in the art will recognize that aspects may also be implemented in combination with other program modules.

Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures and other types of structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that embodiments may be practiced with other computer system configurations including hand held devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and comparable computing devices. Embodiments may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

Some embodiments may be implemented as a computer implemented process method a computing system or as an article of manufacture such as a computer program product or computer readable media. The computer program product may be a computer storage medium readable by a computer system and encoding a computer program that comprises instructions for causing a computer or computing system to perform example process es . The computer readable storage medium is a computer readable memory device. The computer readable storage medium can for example be implemented via one or more of a volatile computer memory a non volatile memory a hard drive a flash drive a floppy disk or a compact disk and comparable hardware media.

Throughout this specification the term platform may be a combination of software and hardware components for providing a conference call aid based on an upcoming deadline. Examples of platforms include but are not limited to a hosted service executed over a plurality of servers an application executed on a single computing device and comparable systems. The term server generally refers to a computing device executing one or more software programs typically in a networked environment. More detail on these technologies and example operations is provided below.

A computing device as used herein refers to a device comprising at least a memory and one or more processors that includes a server a desktop computer a laptop computer a tablet computer a smart phone a vehicle mount computer or a wearable computer. A memory may be a removable or non removable component of a computing device configured to store one or more instructions to be executed by one or more processors. A processor may be a component of a computing device coupled to a memory and configured to execute programs in conjunction with instructions stored by the memory. Actions or operations described herein may be executed on a single processor on multiple processors in a single machine or distributed over multiple machines or on one or more cores of a multi core processor. An operating system is a system configured to manage hardware and software components of a computing device that provides common services and applications. An integrated module is a component of an application or service that is integrated within the application or service such that the application or service is configured to execute the component. A computer readable memory device is a physical computer readable storage medium implemented via one or more of a volatile computer memory a non volatile memory a hard drive a flash drive a floppy disk or a compact disk and comparable hardware media that includes instructions thereon to automatically save content to a location. A user experience a visual display associated with an application or service through which a user interacts with the application or service. A user action refers to an interaction between a user and a user experience of an application or a user experience provided by a service that includes one of touch input gesture input voice command eye tracking gyroscopic input pen input mouse input and keyboards input. An application programming interface API may be a set of routines protocols and tools for an application or service that allow the application or service to interact or communicate with one or more other applications and services managed by separate entities.

While example implementations are described using communications herein embodiments are not limited to communications. Providing a conference call aid based on an upcoming deadline may be implemented in other environments such as instant messages data sharing application sharing and similar communications where communication data may be exchanged.

The technical advantages of providing the conference call aid based on the upcoming deadline may include among others an increased efficiency in automation of invitee management in relation to late invitees and automated facilitation of attendance by the late invitees. Processing and network bandwidth usage may also be reduced by avoiding repeated notifications to the late invitee. Transmission of the notification to the late invitee to join the meeting may result in a reduced memory and processor burden.

Embodiments address a need that arises from very large scale of operations created by networked computing and cloud based services that cannot be managed by humans. The actions operations described herein are not a mere use of a computer but address results of a system that is a direct consequence of software used as a service such as communication services offered in conjunction with the communications.

As shown in a diagram a computing device may execute a task management application . The computing device may be a special purpose device that automates conference call connections to a meeting for invitees who are late to the meeting. The computing device may include components such as processor s a networking device and or a storage device among others. The networking device may be used to communicate with other device s . Furthermore the computing device may include a desktop computer a laptop computer a tablet a smart phone and a wearable computer among other similar computing devices for example.

In some examples the task management application may be executed on a task management server . The task management server may include a web server a project management server and or a document server among others. The computing device may communicate with the task management server through a network . The network may provide wired or wireless communications between nodes such as the computing device or the task management server .

The task management application may detect an expiration of a join duration from a start time of a meeting and may identify a late invitee to the meeting. In some examples the meeting invitee may be the late invitee. The task management application may detect a communication modality to communicate with the late invitee and may establish a communication with the late invitee based on the communication modality. The task management application may transmit through the networking device a notification to join the meeting to the late invitee. The notification may prompt the late invitee to join the meeting through the communication.

While the example system in has been described with specific components such as the task management server and similar devices embodiments are not limited to these components or system configurations and can be implemented with other system configuration employing fewer or additional components. Functionality for systems providing a conference call aid based on an upcoming deadline may also be distributed among the components of the systems differently depending on component capabilities and system configurations. Furthermore embodiments are not limited to the approaches discussed herein as the approaches may be applied to any data exchange in a networked communication environment using the principles described herein.

In a diagram a task management application may be executed on a task management server . The task management server may include a web server a project management server and or a document server among others. Computing devices and may communicate with the task management server through a network . Meeting invitees and may interact with the computing devices and . Furthermore the network may provide wired or wireless communications between nodes such as the computing devices and and the task management server . In other examples the task management application may be provided by a third party service a web application and or a datacenter among others. Local access to the task management application may be provided by locally installed rich clients a local version of the task management application or generic applications.

In some embodiments the task management application may detect an expiration of a join duration from a start time of a meeting and may identify a late invitee e.g. the meeting invitee to the meeting. The task management application may identify a supervisory role associated with the late invitee e.g. the meeting invitee and may generate a lock on the meeting to prevent a sharing of files and slides between meeting attendees e.g. the meeting invitee and or the meeting invitee . The task management application may also detect the late invitee e.g. the meeting invitee joining the meeting and may release the lock from the meeting.

In further embodiments the task management application may identify the meeting categorized as optional and may detect a request to categorize the meeting as mandatory. The task management application may modify the meeting from optional to mandatory. In other embodiments the task management application may detect a failure to attend the meeting by the late invitee e.g. the meeting invitee after the expiration of an extended join duration. The task management application may cancel the meeting.

In a block diagram a special purpose computing device may execute a task management application to automate tracking late invitees and connecting the late invitees to a meeting. The task management application may identify meeting invitees during an initialization of the meeting. The task management application may identify meeting attendees as the meeting invitees having an active status associated with the communication modality. The task management application may display status information associated with the meeting attendees and a late invitee . The task management application may distinguish the meeting attendees from the late invitee using a textual scheme a graphical scheme an audio scheme an animation scheme a coloring scheme a highlighting scheme and or a shading scheme among others.

In some embodiments the task management application may utilize a directory service to identify attributes associated with the meeting invitees . The attributes may include an organizational relationship . In other examples the task management application may utilize an online meeting service to identify additional attributes associated with the meeting invitees . The additional attributes may include a participation history .

In other examples the task management application may provide the attributes on a task management user interface UI . The attributes may be listed in status columns hierarchically distinguished from the sub attributes in the same column. The sub attributes may include summary views of the attributes. An automatic mapping may be performed to translate the attribute fields to the status columns.

In other examples the task management application may apply a filter during the process to map the attributes to the columns. The filter may include rules. An example of a rule may include place attributes related to the participation history in the first column. A scheme may evaluate each of the attributes to detect the column the attributes fit in based on the filter rule or combination of rules . In response to the evaluation of the attributes the task management application may move the attributes to the respective column. The fields and values associated with the attributes may be displayed visually on the task management UI. In some examples the attributes may be displayed using graphical objects and or textual identification. Some or all of displayed elements on the task management interface may be actionable.

In further examples the task management application may utilize local data sources and or social networking sources to identify preferences associated with the meeting. The preferences may include a behavioral relationship between the meeting invitees and a meeting presenter. The behavioral relationship may include a frequency of previous communications between the meeting invitees and the meeting presenter a timing of the previous communications a subject matter discussed during the previous communications and or the modality of the previous communications among others. In some embodiments the behavioral relationship may include a status of the communication modality. The communication modality may include a text messaging session an audio communication session a video communication session and a data sharing session among others.

The task management application may determine a participation likelihood of the meeting invitees based on the organizational relationships the participation history and or the preferences among other factors. The task management application may identify a late invitee based on the participation likelihood.

In further examples the task management application may detect the communication modality to communicate with the late invitee . The task management application may determine the participation likelihood of the meeting invitees based on the status of the communication modality. The task management application may identify the late invitee from the meeting invitees based on the participation likelihood. The status of the communication modality may include a muting status of a microphone a muting status of a speaker an on status of a camera a movement detected in front of the camera an action to share a presentation a detected use of a telepointer and or an annotation on a whiteboard associated with the late invitee among others.

In other embodiments the task management application may utilize the local data sources and or the social networking sources to identify the preferences of the meeting. The preferences may also include a display capability local endpoint resources e.g. processors memory display drivers graphics acceleration etc. and or location of the meeting invitees among others. The preferences may be retrieved from the local data sources such as installed applications and or data files on the computing device.

In a conceptual diagram a computing device may execute a task management application. The computing device may provide the task management application to a meeting invitee and or another meeting invitee among others. The task management application may include a meeting monitoring engine and or a communication engine among others.

The meeting monitoring engine of the task management application may detect an expiration of a join duration from a start time of a meeting. In some examples the meeting monitoring engine may initiate a countdown of the join duration at the start time of the meeting. In response to the detection of the expiration the meeting monitoring engine may identify a late invitee to the meeting e.g. the meeting invitee . The meeting monitoring engine may detect a communication modality associated with the meeting invitee and or another communication modality associated with the other meeting invitee among others. The meeting monitoring engine may use the communication modality to communicate with the late invitee e.g. the meeting invitee .

The communication engine of the task management application may establish a communication with the late invitee e.g. the meeting invitee based on the communication modality . In other embodiments the communication engine may establish another communication with the other meeting invitee based on the other communication modality .

The communication engine may transmit a notification to join the meeting to the late invitee e.g. the meeting invitee . The notification may prompt the late invitee e.g. the meeting invitee to join the meeting through the communication . In other embodiments the meeting monitoring engine may determine a status associated with the communication modality for example. In response to a detection of the status as inactive the meeting monitoring engine may notify a meeting presenter of the late invitee e.g. the meeting invitee .

In further embodiments the meeting monitoring engine may also verify a status of the other communication modality as active. The meeting monitoring engine may identify meeting invitees e.g. the other meeting invitee with an active communication e.g. the other communication associated with the meeting as meeting attendees.

In some embodiments the communication engine may detect an optional categorization of the meeting and may disconnect the communication with the late invitee e.g. the meeting invitee based on the optional categorization. In other embodiments the communication engine may identify a mandatory attendee status associated with the late invitee e.g. the meeting invitee . The communication engine may detect a failure to attend the meeting by the late invitee e.g. the meeting invitee after the expiration of an extended join duration and may cancel the meeting.

The example scenarios and schemas in through are shown with specific components data types and configurations. Embodiments are not limited to systems according to these example configurations. Providing a conference call aid based on an upcoming deadline may be implemented in configurations employing fewer or additional components in applications and user interfaces. Furthermore the example schema and components shown in through and their subcomponents may be implemented in a similar manner with other values using the principles described herein.

As shown in a diagram a computing device may execute a task management application. In examples a task management service may be implemented via software executed over the servers . The platform may communicate with client applications on individual computing devices such as a smart phone a mobile computer or desktop computer client devices through network s . The servers may include one or more task management servers where at least one of the one or more task management servers may be configured to execute one or more applications i.e. the task management application associated with the task management service.

In other examples the task management service may be provided by a third party service or may include a web application. The task management service may store data associated with communications in a data store directly or through a database server . Client applications executed on client devices may be enabled to receive a communication based on the communication modality and receive a notification to join the meeting. The client applications executed on the client devices may also be enabled to receive the communication data and render a task management interface displaying information associated with communication.

Client applications executed on any of the client devices may facilitate communications via application s executed by the one or more task management servers or on an individual task management server. An application such as a task management application may detect an expiration of a join duration from a start time of a meeting and may identify a late invitee to the meeting. The task management application may detect a communication modality to communicate with the late invitee and may establish a communication with the late invitee based on the communication modality. A notification to join the meeting may be transmitted to the late invitee. The notification may prompt the late invitee to join the meeting through the communication. The task management application may store the communication data associated with the communication in the data store directly or through database server .

The network s may comprise any topology of servers clients Internet service providers and communication media. A system according to embodiments may have a static or dynamic topology. The network s may include secure networks such as an enterprise network an unsecure network such as a wireless open network or the Internet. The network s may also coordinate communication over other networks such as Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or cellular networks. Furthermore the network s may include short range wireless networks such as Bluetooth or similar ones. The network s provide communication between the nodes described herein. By way of example and not limitation the network s may include wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

A textual scheme a graphical scheme an audio scheme an animation scheme a coloring scheme a highlighting scheme and or a shading scheme may be employed to further enhance participant interaction between information associated with the communication and the task management interface.

Many other configurations of computing devices applications data sources and data distribution systems may be employed for providing a conference call aid based on an upcoming deadline. Furthermore the networked environments discussed in are for illustration purposes only. Embodiments are not limited to the example applications modules or processes.

For example a computing device may be used as a server desktop computer portable computer smart phone special purpose computer or similar device. In an example basic configuration the computing device may include one or more processors and a system memory . A memory bus may be used for communication between the processor and the system memory . The example basic configuration may be illustrated in by those components within the inner dashed line.

Depending on the desired configuration the processor may be of any type including but not limited to a microprocessor P a microcontroller C a digital signal processor DSP or any combination thereof. The processor may include one more levels of caching such as a level cache memory one or more processor cores and registers . The one or more processor cores may each include an arithmetic logic unit ALU a floating point unit FPU a digital signal processing core DSP Core or any combination thereof. An example memory controller may also be used with the processor or in some implementations the example memory controller may be an internal part of the processor .

Depending on the desired configuration the system memory may be of any type including but not limited to volatile memory such as RAM non volatile memory such as ROM flash memory etc. or any combination thereof. The system memory may include an operating system a task management application and a program data . The task management application may include a meeting monitoring engine and a communication engine .

The meeting monitoring engine may detect an expiration of a join duration from a start time of a meeting and may identify a late invitee to the meeting. The meeting monitoring engine may detect a communication modality to communicate with the late invitee. In other examples the meeting monitoring engine may detect attributes associated with one or more meeting invitees. The attributes may include a participation history and or an organizational relationship among others. In some examples the meeting monitoring engine may determine a participation likelihood of the meeting invitees based on the attributes and may identify the late invitee from the meeting invitees based on the participation likelihood.

The communication engine may establish a communication with the late invitee based on the communication modality. The communication engine may also transmit a notification to join the meeting to the late invitee. The notification may prompt the late invitee to join the meeting through the communication. In other examples the communication engine may distinguish the attendee from the late invitee with a textual scheme a graphical scheme an audio scheme an animation scheme a coloring scheme a highlighting scheme and or a shading scheme among others.

A networking device of the computing device may provide communication between the task management application other applications s other device s and or other entities among others. Components of the task management application such as the task management UI may also be displayed on the display device associated with the computing device . An example of the display device may include a hardware screen that may be communicatively coupled to the computing device . The display device may include a touch based device that detects gestures such as a touch action. The display device may also provide feedback in response to detected gestures or any other form of input by transforming the task management interface of the task management application displayed by the touch based device. The program data may also include among other data communication data and information related to the communications or the like as described herein.

The computing device may have additional features or functionality and additional interfaces to facilitate communications between the example basic configuration and any desired devices and interfaces. For example a bus interface controller may be used to facilitate communications between the example basic configuration and one or more data storage devices via a storage interface bus . The data storage devices may be one or more removable storage devices one or more non removable storage devices or a combination thereof. Examples of the removable storage and the non removable storage devices may include magnetic disk devices such as flexible disk drives and hard disk drives HDD optical disk drives such as compact disk CD drives or digital versatile disk DVD drives solid state drives SSD and tape drives to name a few. Example computer storage media may include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data.

The system memory the removable storage devices and the non removable storage devices are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVDs solid state drives or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which may be used to store the desired information and which may be accessed by the computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of the computing device .

The computing device may also include an interface bus for facilitating communication from various interface devices for example one or more output devices one or more peripheral interfaces and one or more communication devices to the example basic configuration via the bus interface controller . Some of the one or more output devices include a graphics processing unit and an audio processing unit which may be configured to communicate to various external devices such as a display or speakers via one or more A V ports . The one or more peripheral interfaces may include a serial interface controller or a parallel interface controller which may be configured to communicate with external devices such as input devices for example keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. or other peripheral devices for example printer scanner etc. via one or more I O ports . An example communication device includes a network controller which may be arranged to facilitate communications with one or more other computing devices over a network communication link via one or more communication ports . The one or more other computing devices may include servers computing devices and comparable devices.

The network communication link may be one example of a communication media. Communication media may typically be embodied by computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and may include any information delivery media. A modulated data signal may be a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media may include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF microwave infrared IR and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein may include both storage media and communication media.

The computing device may be implemented as a part of a general purpose or specialized server mainframe or similar computer which includes any of the above functions. The computing device may also be implemented as a personal computer including both laptop computer and non laptop computer configurations.

Example embodiments may also include methods for providing a conference call aid based on an upcoming deadline. These methods can be implemented in any number of ways including the structures described herein. One such way may be by machine operations of devices of the type described in the present disclosure. Another optional way may be for one or more of the individual operations of the methods to be performed in conjunction with one or more human operators performing some of the operations while other operations may be performed by machines. These human operators need not be collocated with each other but each can be only with a machine that performs a portion of the program. In other embodiments the human interaction can be automated such as by pre selected criteria that may be machine automated.

A process may be implemented on a computing device such as the computing device or with another system. As described meeting invitees may be allowed to interact with a task management application through an input device or a touch enabled display component of the computing device . The computing device may provide a task management interface of the task management application to the meeting invitees.

The process begins with operation where the task management application may detect an expiration of a join duration from a start time of a meeting. At operation the task management application may identify a late invitee to the meeting. At operation the task management application may detect a communication modality to communicate with the late invitee.

At operation the task management application may establish a communication with the late invitee based on the communication modality. The communication may include an audio communication a video communication an instant messaging communication a communication to share data and or an application sharing communication among others. At operation the task management application may transmit a notification to join the meeting to the late invitee. The notification may prompt the late invitee to join the meeting through the communication.

The operations included in process are for illustration purposes. Providing conference call aid based on upcoming deadlines may be implemented by similar processes with fewer or additional steps as well as in different order of operations using the principles described herein. The operations described herein may be executed by one or more processors operated on one or more computing devices one or more processor cores specialized processing devices and or general purpose processors among other examples.

A means for providing a conference call aid based on an upcoming deadline may be provided which includes a means for detecting an expiration of a join duration from a start time of a meeting a means for identifying a late invitee to the meeting a means for detecting a communication modality to communicate with the late invitee a means for establishing a communication with the late invitee based on the communication modality and a means for transmitting a notification to join the meeting to the late invitee. The notification prompts the late invitee to join the meeting through the communication.

According to some embodiments computing devices for providing a conference call aid based on an upcoming deadline are described. An example computing device may include a networking device a memory and processors coupled to the memory and the networking device. The processors may execute a task management application in conjunction with instructions stored in the memory. The task management application may include a meeting monitoring engine and a communication engine. The meeting monitoring engine may detect an expiration of a join duration from a start time of a meeting identify a late invitee to the meeting and detect a communication modality to communicate with the late invitee. The communication engine may establish a communication with the late invitee based on the communication modality. The communication engine may also transmit through the networking device a notification to join the meeting to the late invitee. The notification prompts the late invitee to join the meeting through the communication.

According to other embodiments the meeting monitoring engine may be further configured to detect attributes associated with meeting invitees determine a participation likelihood of the meeting invitees based on the attributes and identify the late invitee from the meeting invitees based on the participation likelihood. The attributes may include a participation history and or an organizational relationship among others.

According to some embodiments the meeting monitoring engine may be further configured to identify a behavioral relationship between meeting invitees and a meeting presenter determine a participation likelihood of the meeting invitees based on the behavioral relationship and identify the late invitee from the meeting invitees based on the participation likelihood. The behavioral relationship may include a frequency of previous communications between the meeting invitees and or the meeting presenter and a status of the communication modality among others. The status of the communication modality may include a muting status of a microphone a muting status of a speaker an on status of a camera a movement detected in front of the camera an action to share a presentation and or an annotation on a whiteboard associated with the late invitee among others.

According to further embodiments the meeting monitoring engine may be configured to determine a status associated with the communication modality and in response to a detection of the status as inactive notify a meeting presenter of the late invitee. In other examples the meeting monitoring engine may be further configured to verify a status of the communication modality as active.

According to some embodiments the meeting monitoring engine may be further configured to identify meeting invitees with an active communication associated with the meeting as attendees and provide status information associated with the meeting attendees and the late invitee for a presentation on a task management interface. In some examples the communication engine may be further configured to distinguish the attendees from the late invitee within the status information with a textual scheme a graphical scheme an audio scheme an animation scheme a coloring scheme a highlighting scheme and or a shading scheme among others. In some other examples the meeting monitoring engine may be further configured to initiate a countdown of the join duration at the start time of the meeting.

According to some embodiments methods executed on computing devices for providing a conference call aid based on an upcoming deadline may be provided. An example method may include process steps such as detecting an expiration of a join duration from a start time of a meeting identifying a late invitee to the meeting detecting a communication modality to communicate with the late invitee establishing a communication with the late invitee based on the communication modality and transmitting a notification to join the meeting to the late invitee. The notification prompts the late invitee to join the meeting through the communication.

In some embodiments the method may include further process steps for detecting an optional categorization of the meeting and disconnecting the communication with the late invitee based on the optional categorization. In some examples the method may include further process steps for identifying a mandatory attendee status associated with the late invitee detecting a failure to attend the meeting by the late invitee after an expiration of an extended join duration and canceling the meeting.

In other embodiments the method may include further process steps for identifying a supervisory role associated with the late invitee and generating a lock on the meeting to prevent a sharing of files and slides between meeting attendees. In other examples the method may further include process steps for detecting the late invitee joining the meeting and releasing the lock from the meeting.

In additional embodiments the method may include further process steps for identifying the meeting categorized as optional detecting a request to categorize the meeting as mandatory and modifying the meeting from optional to mandatory. In other examples the method may further include process steps for detecting a failure to attend the meeting by the late invitee after an expiration of an extended join duration and canceling the meeting.

According to some examples computer readable memory devices with instructions stored thereon for providing a conference call aid based on an upcoming deadline may be provided. An example computer readable memory device with instructions stored thereon for providing a conference call aid based on an upcoming deadline may include detecting an expiration of a join duration from a start time of a meeting identifying a late invitee to the meeting detecting a communication modality to communicate with the late invitee establishing a communication with the late invitee based on the communication modality and transmitting a notification to join the meeting to the late invitee. The notification prompts the late invitee to join the meeting through the communication.

The above specification examples and data provide a complete description of the manufacture and use of the composition of the embodiments. Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims and embodiments.

