---

title: Phone activity tracking device
abstract: A method and system for tracking usage of applications in handheld devices is disclosed. The method includes scanning for pre-connected devices present in a vehicle at the moment when the vehicle is in an ignition mode. Further, the method includes establishing connectivity with the pre-connected devices. Furthermore, the method includes recording usage data of the vehicle and usage data of the handheld device with a start time and end time. Moreover, the method includes uploading the recorded usage data in a cloud. The method also includes permitting one or more users to view the recorded usage data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09596357&OS=09596357&RS=09596357
owner: 
number: 09596357
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20150930
---
Embodiments of the disclosure relate generally to the field of tracking systems. Embodiments relate more particularly to a method and system to track activities in a handheld device while driving.

Since the introduction of mobile phones some most often young people are texting or talking while driving. This activity distracts people from driving and therefore increases the risk of a car accident. This is why parents and insurance companies are interested in a texting and calling prevention or detection while driving. Another groups interested in this solution are fleet owners to check truck drivers and insurance groups allowing lower rates if this system is implemented.

The term texting is not only used for sending SMS short message service messages but it also includes texting in other applications like WhatsApp Skype as well communicating over applications WhatsApp Skype etc. and or regular telephone calls without using hands free operation like a Bluetooth connection.

In the light of the above discussion there appears to be a need for tracking activities in handheld devices while driving.

The primary objective of the invention is to monitor phone activities of drivers and passengers present in a vehicle while driving.

The above mentioned needs are met by a method and system for providing tracking usage of application in handheld devices.

An example of a method for tracking usage of applications in handheld devices is disclosed. The method includes scanning for pre connected devices present in a vehicle at the moment when the vehicle is in an ignition mode. Further the method includes establishing connectivity with the pre connected devices. Furthermore the method includes recording usage data of the vehicle and usage data of the handheld device with a start time and end time. Moreover the method includes uploading the recorded usage data in a cloud. The method also includes permitting one or more users to view the recorded usage data.

An example of a system for tracking usage of applications in handheld devices. The system includes a vehicle operated by a driver and one or more passengers. The system also includes a plurality of handheld devices operated by the driver and passengers the handheld devices are configured with a wireless technology. Further the system includes a mobile network and an application server that is accessed by a plurality of users. Furthermore the system includes a tracking device configured within the vehicle to track usage of applications in handheld devices present in the vehicle. Moreover the system includes a processor configured within the tracking device and operable to perform establishing connectivity with the pre connected devices recording usage data of the vehicle and usage data of the handheld device with a start time and end time uploading the recorded usage data in a cloud and permitting one or more users to view the recorded usage data.

These and other aspect of the embodiments herein will be better appreciated and understood when considered in conjunction with the following description and the accompanying drawings. It should be understood however that the following descriptions while indicating preferred embodiments and numerous specific details thereof are given by way of illustration and not of limitation. Many changes and modifications may be made within the scope of the embodiments herein without departing from the spirit thereof and the embodiments herein include all such modifications.

The above mentioned needs are met by a method and system for tracking phone activities. The following detailed description is intended to provide example implementations to one of ordinary skill in the art and is not intended to limit the invention to the explicit disclosure as one or ordinary skill in the art will understand that variations can be substituted that are within the scope of the invention as described.

The tracking device may also be referred to as phone activity tracking device . Further the tracking device includes an accelerometer not shown in to detect sudden change in activities.

The vehicle is a thing used for transporting people especially on land such as a car a lorry or a cart. The vehicle is operated by a driver not shown in . Further the vehicle includes the tracking device that is connected to an OBDII port as a pass through device of the vehicle . Potentially other OBDII devices can be plugged into the OBDII port of the tracking device .

It will be appreciated to those skilled in the art that the tracking device may be originally manufactured integrated into the vehicle by the vehicle s stereo or from the manufacturing point of the vehicle . The tracking device may be integrated with the vehicle s manufacture components for example Bluetooth Access point modem or any other suitable GPS after market device to perform the method described herein. In some embodiments the vehicle may have a modem and can use the modem to connect to the application server .

The handheld devices are small computing devices that used in one s hand. Typically the handheld devices are portable computing device such as a cell phone smart phone Android devices and iOS devices. In some embodiments the handheld devices may be replaced by desktops laptops notebooks tablets and other types of wireless or wired computing devices suitable for this purpose. Further the handheld device includes an operating system OS and runs several types of application software known as apps . The handheld devices are equipped with a wireless technology that allows connections to the Internet. The wireless technology typically uses radio waves to transmit and receive data. Examples of the wireless technology include but are not limited to Wi Fi WiMAX Bluetooth and ZigBee.

It will be appreciated to those skilled in the art that the handheld device and Bluetooth enabled device may be interchangeably used.

a registered smart phones which are devices which can be paired for example a teenager s phone which have been paired with the tracking device .

Further the handheld devices are configured with a computer program product code referred to as Activity Tracker application . This application limits the usage or restricts any applications on the handheld device while the tracking device detects ignition on from the vehicle .

The mobile network cellular network is a communication network where the last link is wireless. Network link s involved in the system of the present invention may include any suitable number or arrangement of interconnected networks including both wired and wireless networks. By way of example a wireless communication network link over which mobile devices communicate may utilize a cellular based communication infrastructure. The communication infrastructure includes cellular based communication protocols such as AMPS CDMA TDMA GSM Global System for Mobile communications iDEN GPRS EDGE Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System WCDMA and their variants among others. In various embodiments network link may further include or alternately include a variety of communication channels and networks such as WLAN Wi Fi WiMAX Wide Area Networks WANs and Blue Tooth.

The application server is a server program in a computer of a distributed network that handles all operations between the user and the database . The database stores all recorded information tracked by the tracking device . In some embodiments the information can also be stored in the handheld device or in the tracking device thereby making the handheld device and tracking device self contained . The user is a concerned person of the passengers travelling in the vehicle for example parents vehicle owner fleet owners and insurances.

For the initial configuration one or more handheld devices need to be paired with the tracking device this is typically done by the car owner or the owner of the handheld device. Once the car is in an ignition mode while driving the tracking device scans the vehicle for pre connected handheld devices through a wireless technology. Specifically the wireless technology is Bluetooth. Consequently the tracking device pairs with the scanned pre connected handheld devices. Once paired the tracking device records the usage data of the vehicle and the usage data of the handheld device. The tracking device stores and records the usage data through a micro computer not shown in . This recorded usage information is the uploaded to the cloud application server via a wireless modem for example CDMA or LTE where the users can access the usage information by logging into a web browser. Further the application layer can also be run on the handheld device or on the tracking device implying that the application can run without the main database. The application can be a cloud base or self contained application. In some embodiments the recorded usage information may be uploaded to a data center.

An alternative method of synchronization includes the tracking device identifying on and off of the vehicle and subsequently send the data to the database without the synchronization of the handheld device. The handheld device can also send usage information to the database without connection to tracking device . The database has a timetable that can process the information sync. The application server can then update the usage on the web or handheld device app. This alternative method is performed when there is an interruption or simply an alternative method to sync information of the tracking device and mobile phone.

The tracking device consists of a Microcomputer which handles a Bluetooth unit a Bluetooth unit and a wireless modem . As soon as the car is in the on position the Bluetooth unit will scan for all Bluetooth enabled devices for example mobile handset and mobile handset within the car using a Bluetooth link . The Tracking Device not only stores the Bluetooth enabled devices but it also will track which handheld device is using another Bluetooth connection like the hands free unit in the vehicle .

In certain scenarios the tracking device scans and identifies multiple registered handheld devices in the vehicle . In such a case the activity tracker application on the handheld device will query all the registered handheld devices about the driver of the vehicle. As a result other passengers in the vehicle would be allowed to utilize the handheld device capabilities completely.

Further the tracking device will track all activities of several applications of the handheld devices and subsequently store it. These applications are not only phone applications like regular call skypeeBuddie Viber Tango and other similar applications but also texting applications like sms messaging whatsapptweet contact Google Hangout and talk Telegram Messanger Line WEchat Viber Tango FaceBook Chat VOIP Buster BBM iMessanger Kikmessanger ChatOnand similar applications as well as video or photo applications like skype video Instagram Facetime Google hangouts Snapchat Flickerand other similar applications.

The Camera Bluetooth device can be installed optionally. Once activities are tracked the Tracking Device triggers the Camera Bluetooth Device to take a snap shot and transfers the data to the Tracking Device . The Camera Bluetooth Device is typically installed in such a way that it can take a photo or a video of the head of the driver within the vehicle. Optionally it can also take pictures or videos of all persons in the vehicle. The photo would thereby validate the driver and the passengers of the vehicle. Further the Camera Bluetooth Device constantly records or picture frames to detect ongoing activities so that at the time of a crash or an accident the Camera Bluetooth Device can send a last recording of last on and off event.

The Tracking Device can include a wireless modem WIFI BLE or other wireless access points which can be based on GSM CDMA EVDO UMTS LTE or any other suitable cellular technology . A modem can be defined as a device or program that enables a computer to transmit data through communication lines. Once a trigger is reached the Tracking Device sends the data over the Mobile Network to the Application Server .

A trigger in the Tracking Device can be reached if either a the car is again in an off position or b as soon as a phone activity has been detected.

The Application Server will have the following information start time when car is in on position stop time when car was switched to off position paired phone s number of unregistered phones phone text and video activities with list type application Bluetooth connection hands free devices were used time duration and optionally photos with time stamps. Video activities may be e mailed to the users.

The Application Server can be accessed via an Internet browser after a login procedure the User parent fleet owner or insurance company can access the data of the Application Server . The Application Server can also generate an email or text message to a predefined destination once an Application Server threshold has been reached.

The Connection can be with WIFI access points internal modem from tracking device or the handheld device can send compiled data to the application server . Alternatively the tracking device and the handheld device can send the usage information individually and the database processes the information.

The User can configure the type of notification email or text as well as destination email address or mobile number and the threshold level daily weekly monthly report trip summary report a summary of activities for the period On Off ignition of the car every event each single event for example if for one trip there were 2 phone activities and 1 text activity it would generate 3 notifications .

In some embodiments instead of using a wireless modem or WIFI in the Tracking Device the Tracking Device can push the data through the paired phone and transfer the data over the Mobile Network to the Application Server . This requires an application on the Bluetooth Enabled Device which pairs it with the Tracking Device and forwards the information to the Application Server by using the Mobile Network via GSM CDMA EVDO UMTS or LTE. The advantage is a lower cost of the Tracking Device but it requires an installation of an app on each registered phone.

Another embodiment is connecting the Tracking Device not to the OBDII interface but using the ignition on cable as a power supply like some car radios and other equipment are using.

Another embodiment is using GPS data to determine if the car is moving and therefore activating the Bluetooth scanning process. A GPS chip GPS processor or push pass through OBD device s GPS function can be integrated into the Tracking Device .

In another embodiment as the vehicle enters or exits areas of Wi Fi RF or Cellular coverage towers the vehicle s status changes correspondingly.

At step pre connected handheld devices present in a vehicle are scanned at the moment when the vehicle is in an ignition mode.

At step usage data of the vehicle and usage data of the handheld devices are recorded with a start time and end time. The usage data of several applications are recorded on the handheld devices. The applications may be games and social applications that are installed or preinstalled in the handheld devices.

Geographical information is retrieved from the pre connected devices and subsequently included into the recorded usage data. The geographical information is obtained through GPS technology.

Further usage information of one or more unauthorized devices present in the vehicle is recorded. The unauthorized devices are detected by the tracking device while scanning. The tracking device then scans the serial number MAC address or unique number of the Bluetooth on the unauthorized devices.

In case of non connectivity the usage data of the vehicle and usage data of the handheld devices are recorded and once connectivity is re established the recorded usage data is synchronized with Wi Fi BLT or other wireless access portal or access points. In some embodiments the synchronization can be done individually. The tracking device can send its recorded usage data and the handheld device can send the usage data at a later time and subsequently synchronize at a later time. Alternatively the tracking device can send its usage data to the handheld device and then the handheld device can send the usage data to the cloud.

Specifically when the handheld device cannot synchronize with the tracking device or the application server then the application server can access the phone s carrier bill through an Application Programming Interface API or Virtual Private Network VPN or credentials to login into an account and synchronize with the tracking device.

A driver and one or more passengers present in the vehicle are validated by triggering a connected camera to capture a picture of the driver and the passengers. The trigger is sent by the tracking device. Further the data from the captured picture is then transferred to the cloud.

In some embodiments the tracking device may be connected to a wireless or wired breath analyzer. The breath analyzer may have an option for correct person identification. This can control the vehicle s ignition not to start.

Personal information of the driver and the passengers are stored in a corresponding record account in the cloud.

Alerts are sent to the users based on preferences at the occurrence of pre defined events. Further regular reports are sent to the users wherein the reports indicate the usage of applications on corresponding handheld devices. Typically the reports are configured by the users.

At step one or more users are permitted to view the recorded usage data thereby tracking the activities in the corresponding handheld devices.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal displays LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a user interface UI navigation device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device . The computer system may also include a environmental input device that may provide a number of inputs describing the environment in which the computer system or another device exists including but not limited to any of a Global Positioning Sensing GPS receiver a temperature sensor a light sensor a still photo or video camera an audio sensor e.g. a microphone a velocity sensor a gyroscope an accelerometer and a compass.

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of data structures and instructions e.g. software embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more instructions or data structures. The term non transitory machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present subject matter or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such instructions. The term non transitory machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of non transitory machine readable media include but are not limited to non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a computer network using a transmission medium. The instructions may be transmitted using the network interface device and any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks Plain Old Telephone Service POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. Wi Fi and WiMAX networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible media to facilitate communication of such software.

As described herein computer software products can be written in any of various suitable programming languages such as C C C Pascal Fortran Perl Matlab from MathWorks SAS SPSS JavaScript AJAX and Java. The computer software product can be an independent application with data input and data display modules. Alternatively the computer software products can be classes that can be instantiated as distributed objects. The computer software products can also be component software for example Java Beans from Sun Microsystems or Enterprise Java Beans EJB from Sun Microsystems . Much functionality described herein can be implemented in computer software computer hardware or a combination.

Furthermore a computer that is running the previously mentioned computer software can be connected to a network and can interface to other computers using the network. The network can be an intranet internet or the Internet among others. The network can be a wired network for example using copper telephone network packet network an optical network for example using optical fiber or a wireless network or a combination of such networks. For example data and other information can be passed between the computer and components or steps of a system using a wireless network based on a protocol for example Wi Fi IEEE standards 802.11 802.11a 802.11b 802.11e 802.11g 802.11i and 1802.11n . In one example signals from the computer can be transferred at least in part wirelessly to components or other computers.

It is to be understood that although various components are illustrated herein as separate entities each illustrated component represents a collection of functionalities which can be implemented as software hardware firmware or any combination of these. Where a component is implemented as software it can be implemented as a standalone program but can also be implemented in other ways for example as part of a larger program as a plurality of separate programs as a kernel loadable module as one or more device drivers or as one or more statically or dynamically linked libraries.

Furthermore as will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the relevant art the portions modules agents managers components functions procedures actions layers features attributes methodologies and other aspects of the invention can be implemented as software hardware firmware or any combination of the three. Of course wherever a component of the present invention is implemented as software the component can be implemented as a script as a standalone program as part of a larger program as a plurality of separate scripts and or programs as a statically or dynamically linked library as a kernel loadable module as a device driver and or in every and any other way known now or in the future to those of skill in the art of computer programming. Additionally the present invention is in no way limited to implementation in any specific programming language or for any specific operating system or environment.

Furthermore it will be readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the relevant art that where the present invention is implemented in whole or in part in software the software components thereof can be stored on computer readable media as computer program products. Any form of computer readable medium can be used in this context such as magnetic or optical storage media. Additionally software portions of the present invention can be instantiated for example as object code or executable images within the memory of any programmable computing device.

As will be understood by those familiar with the art the invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. Likewise the particular naming and division of the portions modules agents managers components functions procedures actions layers features attributes methodologies and other aspects are not mandatory or significant and the mechanisms that implement the invention or its features may have different names divisions and or formats.

Accordingly the disclosure of the present invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the following claims.

