---

title: Network-enabled RFID tag endorsement
abstract: A Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) reader may be configured to endorse an RFID tag. The reader receives an identifier from the tag and challenges the tag with a challenge. After receiving a response from the tag, the reader sends a first message including at least the identifier, challenge, and response to an authenticating entity and sends a second message including at least the identifier to a certifying entity. The reader then receives a first reply from the authenticating entity and a second reply from the certifying entity. The second reply may include a certificate associated with the tag, or may identify some property of the tag or an item associated with the tag. In some embodiments, the reader may serve as the authenticating and/or certifying entity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09405945&OS=09405945&RS=09405945
owner: IMPINJ, INC.
number: 09405945
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150402
---
This application is a continuation in part under 35 U.S.C 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 441 285 filed on Apr. 6 2012 which claims benefit under 35 U.S.C 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 473 501 filed on Apr. 8 2011. The disclosures of the aforementioned patent application and provisional application are hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes.

Radio Frequency Identification RFID systems typically include RFID readers also known as RFID reader writers or RFID interrogators and RFID tags. RFID systems can be used in many ways for locating and identifying objects to which the tags are attached. RFID systems are particularly useful in product and service related industries for tracking objects being processed inventoried or handled. In such cases an RFID tag is usually attached to an individual item or to its package.

In principle RFID techniques entail using an RFID reader to interrogate one or more RFID tags. The reader transmitting a Radio Frequency RF wave performs the interrogation. The RF wave is typically electromagnetic at least in the far field. The RF wave can also be predominantly electric or magnetic in the near field. The RF wave may encode one or more commands that instruct the tags to perform one or more actions.

A tag that senses the interrogating RF wave may respond by transmitting back another RF wave. The tag generates the transmitted back RF wave either originally or by reflecting back a portion of the interrogating RF wave in a process known as backscatter. Backscatter may take place in a number of ways.

The reflected back RF wave may encode data stored in the tag such as a number. The response is demodulated and decoded by the reader which thereby identifies counts or otherwise interacts with the associated item. The decoded data can denote a serial number a price a date a time a destination an encrypted message an electronic signature other attribute s any combination of attributes and so on. Accordingly when a reader receives tag data it can learn about the item that hosts the tag and or about the tag itself.

An RFID tag typically includes an antenna system a radio section a power management section and frequently a logical section a memory or both. In some RFID tags the logical section may include a cryptographic algorithm which in many instances relies on one or more passwords or keys stored in tag memory. In earlier RFID tags the power management section included an energy storage device such as a battery. RFID tags with an energy storage device are known as battery assisted semi active or active tags. Advances in semiconductor technology have miniaturized the electronics so much that an RFID tag can be powered solely by the RF signal it receives. Such RFID tags do not include an energy storage device such as a battery and are called passive tags. Of course even passive tags typically include temporary energy and data flag storage elements such as capacitors or inductors.

Counterfeiting is a problem in many areas of global commerce. Many RFID enabled applications need to verify the authenticity of the RFID tags readers and system components used in the application and also need to verify attributes of the items to which the tags are attached. For example a retailer receiving a shipment of tagged garments may need to verify whether the tags and by implication the garments to which the tags are attached are authentic the retailer may also need to verify attributes of the garments such as that they were manufactured with organic cotton.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Embodiments are directed to an RFID reader or an RFID system that includes a reader endorsing an RFID tag. The reader receives an identifier from the tag and challenges the tag with a challenge. After receiving a response from the tag the reader then sends a first message including at least the identifier challenge and response to an authenticating entity and sends a second message including at least the identifier to a certifying entity. The reader then receives a first reply from the authenticating entity and a second reply from the certifying entity. The second reply may include a certificate associated with the tag or may identify some property of the tag or an item associated with the tag. In some embodiments the reader may serve as the authenticating and or certifying entity.

These and other features and advantages will be apparent from a reading of the following detailed description and a review of the associated drawings. It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are explanatory only and are not restrictive of aspects as claimed.

In the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments or examples. These embodiments or examples may be combined other aspects may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

As used herein memory is one of ROM RAM SRAM DRAM NVM EEPROM FLASH Fuse MRAM FRAM and other similar information storage technologies as will be known to those skilled in the art. Some portions of memory may be writeable and some not. Command refers to a reader request for one or more tags to perform one or more actions and includes one or more tag instructions preceded by a command identifier or command code that identifies the command and or the tag instructions. Instruction refers to a request to a tag to perform a single explicit action e.g. write data into memory . Program refers to a request to a tag to perform a set or sequence of instructions e.g. read a value from memory and if the read value is less than a threshold then lock a memory word . Protocol refers to an industry standard for communications between a reader and a tag and vice versa such as the Class 1 Generation 2 UHF RFID Protocol for Communications at 860 MHz 960 MHz by GS1 EPCglobal Inc. Gen2 Specification versions 1.2.0 and 2.0 of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

Embodiments are directed to a Radio Frequency Identification RFID system endorsing an RFID tag. Endorsement includes but is not limited to authenticating the RFID tag to determine the legitimacy of the tag and or the object to which the tag is attached and validating one or more certificates that embody assertions that the tag and or the object to which the tag is attached possess one or more properties.

The tag includes a secret also known as a key which may not readable but is known to an authenticating entity. The tag also includes an identifier ID such as but not limited to a tag identifier TID key identifier KID unique item identifier UII electronic product code EPC or a serialized trade identification number SGTIN . Finally the tag includes or provides a means for a reader to determine one or more certificates embodying tag or item properties such as make and model country of origin size weight region of sale labor practices farming practices energy usage hazardous or non hazardous approval by NGOs governments laboratories or other organizations allergens safety customer satisfaction ratings IP licensure or other similar properties.

To authenticate a tag i.e. determine the tag s legitimacy the reader interrogates the tag to determine the tag s ID challenges the tag with a random number or string then receives a response from the tag. The tag may then be authenticated based on the ID challenge and response by an authenticating entity which may be the reader an authentication module associated with the reader and or a separate authenticating entity. In some applications each individual RFID tag or group of tags will contain a distinct key and the authenticating entity may determine the key a particular tag employs by using the ID as a table lookup or input to an algorithmic key generator. The tag computes its response from at least the challenge and the key typically using a cryptographic algorithm. In some applications the tag may add some tag generated randomness to the challenge to enhance the security of the challenge response algorithm. Because the authenticating entity must be able to reconstruct the challenge that the tag used in its computations in these latter applications the tag either sends its tag generated randomness to the authenticating entity or provides sufficient information in its ID and response for the authenticating entity to determine the tag generated randomness algorithmically. In some applications to further enhance security the tag may encrypt its tag generated randomness in an Initial Value IV and send the IV to the authenticating entity. In yet other applications the authenticating entity will generate the challenge and send it to the reader for relaying to the tag.

The authenticating entity uses the challenge and its knowledge of the tag s key and cryptographic algorithm to confirm or refute the tag s response and thereby ascertain the tag s or item s authenticity. In some applications such as a consumer using an RFID enabled mobile phone to interrogate a product like a designer purse prior to purchase the authenticating entity will send a reply to the phone indicating whether the item is authentic or counterfeit. In other applications such as a pharmaceutical distributor using an RFID enabled handheld reader to interrogate a shipment such as a case of medicine the authenticating entity may send a notification to a designated party such as the distributor s security office or in some instances directly to the police in the event of counterfeit medicine.

To truly authenticate a tag a recipient of a message from an authenticating entity needs to know that the message is genuine from a trusted authenticating entity and has not been forged or altered by an illegitimate authenticating entity or during transmission. Accordingly in some embodiments the authenticating entity signs the message using an electronic signature and the receiving entity verifies the signed message for example by using a public or private key of the authenticating entity.

In some embodiments tags may be associated with certificates that embody one or more assertions about the tag or tagged product. In one example a tag may store at least one certificate and may send the certificate to an interrogating reader. In another example a tag may store at least one assertion about itself or its associated product and may send the assertion to an interrogating reader and the reader may then construct a certificate based on the received assertion. In yet another example a tag may send its tag ID to an interrogating reader and the reader may use the tag ID to look up assertions or certificates associated with the tag.

A certificate in addition to including or designating one or more assertions or properties of the tag or tagged item may also include the name or location for example a uniform resource locator or URL that identifies an internet or network address of a certifying entity that can support provide or refute the assertions and or properties. A certifying entity may validate a tag certificate which provides assurances that the tag certificate is in fact genuine. The certifying entity similar to the authenticating entity described above may include a reader a certification module associated with the reader and or a separate certifying entity. A reader that is a certifying entity may upon receiving a certificate or other identifying information from a tag validate the certificate and or look up certificates or assertions associated with the tag. On the other hand a reader that is not a certifying entity may upon receiving a certificate from a tag or constructing a certificate based on information from a tag send the certificate to a certifying entity for validation. The certifying entity may then respond with a message either supporting i.e. confirming or refuting the certificate and may also send a message to one or more designated parties.

In some embodiments a certifying entity may provide tag certificates or assertions about a tag or tagged product. For example a certifying entity may upon receipt of identification information for a tag look up or generate certificates or assertions associated with the tag. For example a reader that is not itself a certifying entity may send a tag ID to a certifying entity. The certifying entity may then use the tag ID to determine if any certificates or assertions are associated with the tag or associated product. The certifying entity may perform the determination by using the tag ID as a table lookup for certificates or assertions or as an input to an algorithmic generator that produces certificates or assertions. If the reader is a certifying entity then the reader may itself determine if any certificates or assertions are associated with the tag or associated product.

As with authentication the reader or designated party may need to know that a message from a certifying entity is genuine from a trusted certifying entity and has not been forged or altered by an illegitimate certifying entity or during transmission. Accordingly in some embodiments the certifying entity signs the certifying message using an electronic signature and the receiving entity verifies the signed message such as by using a public or private key of the certifying entity.

A reader that a confirms that a tag is authentic and genuine and b confirms that some certification about properties of the tag or tagged item or properties of the production process for the tag or tagged item is genuine can then ascertain that the tag or tagged item possesses the properties. In some applications such as a consumer using an RFID enabled mobile phone to interrogate a product like a designer purse prior to purchase the certifying entity may send a message indicating that the purse was made without using child labor. In other applications such as a pharmaceutical distributor using an RFID enabled handheld reader to interrogate a shipment such as a case of medicine the certifying entity may send a notification to a designated party such as the distributor s security office or in some instances directly to the police in the event of a mismatched property such as an incorrect port of origin.

In some applications the authenticating entity and the certifying entity are the same entity. For example the reader itself may be both the authenticating entity and the certifying entity. If not in some embodiments the reader may send tag information to the combined authenticating certifying entity. In some embodiments the authenticating entity and or the certifying entity may be used to route certifying and or authenticating information to the other. For example the reader may send the ID challenge response and certifying information solely to the authenticating entity which in turn routes the ID and certificates to appropriate certifying entities. As another example the reader may send the ID challenge response and certifying information solely to the certifying authority which in turn routes the ID challenge and response to an appropriate authenticating entity. Routing may include altering reorganizing reformatting combining or splitting apart one or more messages prior to transmission.

In some applications the certifying entity may pre register certificates at a authenticating entity in advance so that the authenticating entity can act as a proxy for the certifying entity and support or refute assertions about a tag without having to route a message to the certifying entity. Similarly in some applications the certifying entity may be able to act as a proxy for the authenticating entity and confirm or refute tag authenticity without having to route a message to the authenticating entity.

For both the authenticating entity and the certifying entity the network may be available in real time meaning that the reader and entities can engage on a message by message basis or the network may be non real time meaning that messages are stored and transmitted when the network is available.

Reader and tag communicate via signals and . When communicating each encodes modulates and transmits data to the other and each receives demodulates and decodes data from the other. The data can be modulated onto and demodulated from RF waveforms. The RF waveforms are typically in a suitable range of frequencies such as those near 900 MHz 13.56 MHz and so on.

The communication between reader and tag uses symbols also called RFID symbols. A symbol can be a delimiter a calibration value and so on. Symbols can be implemented for exchanging binary data such as 0 and 1 if that is desired. When symbols are processed by reader and tag they can be treated as values numbers and so on.

Tag can be a passive tag or an active or battery assisted tag i.e. a tag having its own power source . When tag is a passive tag it is powered from signal .

Tag is typically although not necessarily formed on a substantially planar inlay which can be made in many ways known in the art. Tag includes a circuit which may be implemented as an IC . In some embodiments IC is implemented in complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS technology. In other embodiments IC may be implemented in other technologies such as bipolar junction transistor BJT technology metal semiconductor field effect transistor MESFET technology and others as will be well known to those skilled in the art. IC is arranged on inlay .

Tag also includes an antenna for exchanging wireless signals with its environment. The antenna is often flat and attached to inlay . IC is electrically coupled to the antenna via suitable IC contacts not shown in . The term electrically coupled as used herein may mean a direct electrical connection or it may mean a connection that includes one or more intervening circuit blocks elements or devices. The electrical part of the term electrically coupled as used in this document shall mean a coupling that is one or more of ohmic galvanic capacitive and or inductive. Similarly the term electrically isolated as used herein means that electrical coupling of one or more types e.g. galvanic capacitive and or inductive is not present at least to the extent possible. For example elements that are electrically isolated from each other are galvanically isolated from each other capacitively isolated from each other and or inductively isolated from each other. Of course electrically isolated components will generally have some unavoidable stray capacitive or inductive coupling between them but the intent of the isolation is to minimize this stray coupling to a negligible level when compared with an electrically coupled path.

IC is shown with a single antenna port comprising two IC contacts electrically coupled to two antenna segments and which are shown here forming a dipole. Many other embodiments are possible using any number of ports contacts antennas and or antenna segments.

Diagram depicts top and side views of tag formed using a strap. Tag differs from tag in that it includes a substantially planar strap substrate having strap contacts and . IC is mounted on strap substrate such that the IC contacts on IC electrically couple to strap contacts and via suitable connections not shown . Strap substrate is then placed on inlay such that strap contacts and electrically couple to antenna segments and . Strap substrate may be affixed to inlay via pressing an interface layer one or more adhesives or any other suitable means.

Diagram depicts a side view of an alternative way to place strap substrate onto inlay . Instead of strap substrate s surface including strap contacts facing the surface of inlay strap substrate is placed with its strap contacts facing away from the surface of inlay . Strap contacts can then be either capacitively coupled to antenna segments through strap substrate or conductively coupled using a through via which may be formed by crimping strap contacts to antenna segments . In some embodiments the positions of strap substrate and inlay may be reversed with strap substrate mounted beneath strap substrate and strap contacts electrically coupled to antenna segments through inlay . Of course in yet other embodiments strap contacts may electrically couple to antenna segments through both inlay and strap substrate .

In operation the antenna receives a signal and communicates it to IC which both harvests power and responds if appropriate based on the incoming signal and the IC s internal state. If IC uses backscatter modulation then it responds by modulating the antenna s reflectance which generates response signal from signal transmitted by the reader. Electrically coupling and uncoupling the IC contacts of IC can modulate the antenna s reflectance as can varying the admittance of a shunt connected circuit element which is coupled to the IC contacts. Varying the impedance of a series connected circuit element is another means of modulating the antenna s reflectance.

In the embodiments of antenna segments and are separate from IC . In other embodiments the antenna segments may alternatively be formed on IC . Tag antennas according to embodiments may be designed in any form and are not limited to dipoles. For example the tag antenna may be a patch a slot a loop a coil a horn a spiral a monopole microstrip stripline or any other suitable antenna.

The components of the RFID system of may communicate with each other in any number of modes. One such mode is called full duplex. Another such mode is called half duplex and is described below.

RFID reader and RFID tag talk and listen to each other by taking turns. As seen on axis TIME when reader talks to tag the communication session is designated as R T and when tag talks to reader the communication session is designated as T R . Along the TIME axis a sample R T communication session occurs during a time interval and a following sample T R communication session occurs during a time interval . Of course interval is typically of a different duration than interval here the durations are shown approximately equal only for purposes of illustration.

According to blocks and RFID reader talks during interval and listens during interval . According to blocks and RFID tag listens while reader talks during interval and talks while reader listens during interval .

In terms of actual behavior during interval reader talks to tag as follows. According to block reader transmits signal which was first described in . At the same time according to block tag receives signal and processes it to extract data and so on. Meanwhile according to block tag does not backscatter with its antenna and according to block reader has no signal to receive from tag .

During interval tag talks to reader as follows. According to block reader transmits a Continuous Wave CW signal which can be thought of as a carrier that typically encodes no information. This CW signal serves both to transfer energy to tag for its own internal power needs and also as a carrier that tag can modulate with its backscatter. Indeed during interval according to block tag does not receive a signal for processing. Instead according to block tag modulates the CW emitted according to block so as to generate backscatter signal . Concurrently according to block reader receives backscatter signal and processes it.

An order a timing and other parameters of RFID tag reader communications may be defined by industry and or government protocols also known as standards . For example the Class 1 Generation 2 UHF RFID Protocol for Communications at 860 MHz 960 MHz Gen2 Specification by EPCglobal Inc. is one such industry standard. The contents of the Gen2 Specification versions 1.2.0 and 2.0 are hereby incorporated by reference.

Local block is responsible for communicating with the tags. Local block includes a block of an antenna and a driver of the antenna for communicating with the tags. Some readers like that shown in local block contain a single antenna and driver. Some readers contain multiple antennas and drivers and a method to switch signals among them including sometimes using different antennas for transmitting and for receiving. Some readers contain multiple antennas and drivers that can operate simultaneously. A demodulator decoder block demodulates and decodes backscattered waves received from the tags via antenna driver block . Modulator encoder block encodes and modulates an RF wave that is to be transmitted to the tags via antenna driver block .

Local block additionally includes an optional local processor . Local processor may be implemented in any number of ways known in the art. Such ways include by way of examples and not of limitation digital and or analog processors such as microprocessors and digital signal processors DSPs controllers such as microcontrollers software running in a machine such as a general purpose computer programmable circuits such as Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs Field Programmable Analog Arrays FPAAs Programmable Logic Devices PLDs Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASIC any combination of one or more of these and so on. In some cases some or all of the decoding function in block the encoding function in block or both may be performed instead by local processor . In some cases local processor may implement an encryption or authentication function in some cases one or more of these functions can be distributed among other blocks such as encoding block or may be entirely incorporated in another block.

Local block additionally includes an optional local memory . Local memory may be implemented in any number of ways known in the art including by way of example and not of limitation any of the memory types described above as well as any combination thereof. Local memory can be implemented separately from local processor or in an IC with local processor with or without other components. Local memory if provided can store programs for local processor to run if needed.

In some embodiments local memory stores data read from tags or data to be written to tags such as Electronic Product Codes EPCs Tag Identifiers TIDs and other data. Local memory can also include reference data that is to be compared to EPCs instructions and or rules for how to encode commands for the tags modes for controlling antenna secret keys key pairs and so on. In some of these embodiments local memory is provided as a database.

Some components of local block typically treat the data as analog such as the antenna driver block . Other components such as local memory typically treat the data as digital. At some point there is a conversion between analog and digital. Based on where this conversion occurs a reader may be characterized as analog or digital but most readers contain a mix of analog and digital functionality.

If remote components are provided they are coupled to local block via an electronic communications network . Network can be a Local Area Network LAN a Metropolitan Area Network MAN a Wide Area Network WAN a network of networks such as the internet or a local communication link such as a USB PCI and so on. Local block may include a local network connection for communicating with communications network . Communications on the network can be secure such as if they are encrypted or physically protected or insecure if they are not encrypted or otherwise protected.

There can be one or more remote component s . If more than one they can be located at the same location or in different locations. They can access each other and local block via communications network or via other similar networks and so on. Accordingly remote component s can use respective remote network connections. Only one such remote network connection is shown which is similar to local network connection etc.

Remote component s can also include a remote processor . Remote processor can be made in any way known in the art such as was described with reference to local processor . Remote processor may also implement an authentication function similar to local processor .

Remote component s can also include a remote memory . Remote memory can be made in any way known in the art such as was described with reference to local memory . Remote memory may include a local database and a different database of a standards organization such as one that can reference EPCs. Remote memory may also contain information associated with commands tag profiles keys or the like similar to local memory .

Of the above described elements it may be useful to consider a combination of these components designated as operational processing block . Operational processing block includes those components that are provided of the following local processor remote processor local network connection remote network connection and by extension an applicable portion of communications network that links remote network connection with local network connection . The portion can be dynamically changeable etc. In addition operational processing block can receive and decode RF waves received via antenna driver and cause antenna driver to transmit RF waves according to what it has processed.

Operational processing block includes either local processor or remote processor or both. If both are provided remote processor can be made such that it operates in a way complementary with that of local processor . In fact the two can cooperate. It will be appreciated that operational processing block as defined this way is in communication with both local memory and remote memory if both are present.

Accordingly operational processing block is location independent in that its functions can be implemented either by local processor or by remote processor or by a combination of both. Some of these functions are preferably implemented by local processor and some by remote processor . Operational processing block accesses local memory or remote memory or both for storing and or retrieving data.

RFID reader system operates by operational processing block generating communications for RFID tags. These communications are ultimately transmitted by antenna driver block with modulator encoder block encoding and modulating the information on an RF wave. Then data is received from the tags via antenna driver block demodulated and decoded by demodulator decoder block and processed by operational processing block .

Embodiments of an RFID reader system can be implemented as hardware software firmware or any combination. Such a system may be subdivided into components or modules. A person skilled in the art will recognize that some of these components or modules can be implemented as hardware some as software some as firmware and some as a combination. An example of such a subdivision is now described together with the RFID tag as an additional module.

An RFID tag is considered here as a module by itself. RFID tag conducts a wireless communication with the remainder via the air interface . Air interface is really a boundary in that signals or data that pass through it are not intended to be transformed from one thing to another. Specifications as to how readers and tags are to communicate with each other for example the Gen2 Specification also properly characterize that boundary as an interface.

RFID system includes one or more reader antennas and an RF front end module for interfacing with reader antenna s . These can be made as described above.

RFID system also includes a signal processing module . In one embodiment signal processing module exchanges waveforms with RF front end module such as I and Q waveform pairs.

RFID system also includes a physical driver module which is also known as data link module. In some embodiments physical driver module exchanges bits with signal processing module . Physical driver module can be the stage associated with the framing of data.

RFID system additionally includes a media access control module . In one embodiment media access control layer module exchanges packets of bits with physical driver module . Media access control layer module can make decisions for sharing the medium of wireless communication which in this case is the air interface.

RFID system moreover includes an application programming library module . This module can include application programming interfaces APIs other objects etc.

All of these RFID system functionalities can be supported by one or more processors. One of these processors can be considered a host processor. Such a host processor might include a host operating system OS and or central processing unit CPU as in module . In some embodiments the processor is not considered as a separate module but one that includes some of the above mentioned modules of RFID system . In some embodiments the one or more processors may perform operations associated with retrieving data that may include a tag public key an electronic signature a tag identifier an item identifier and or a signing authority public key. In some embodiments the one or more processors may verify an electronic signature create a tag challenge and or verify a tag response.

User interface module may be coupled to application programming library module for accessing the APIs. User interface module can be manual automatic or both. It can be supported by the host OS CPU module mentioned above or by a separate processor etc.

It will be observed that the modules of RFID system form a chain. Adjacent modules in the chain can be coupled by appropriate instrumentalities for exchanging signals. These instrumentalities include conductors buses interfaces and so on. These instrumentalities can be local e.g. to connect modules that are physically close to each other or over a network for remote communication.

The chain is used in one direction for receiving RFID waveforms and in the other direction for transmitting RFID waveforms. In receiving mode reader antenna s receives wireless waves which are in turn processed successively by the various modules in the chain. Processing can terminate in any one of the modules. In transmitting mode waveform initiation can be in any one of the modules. Ultimately signals are routed to reader antenna s to be transmitted as wireless waves.

The architecture of RFID system is presented for purposes of explanation and not of limitation. Its particular subdivision into modules need not be followed for creating embodiments. Furthermore the features of the present disclosure can be performed either within a single one of the modules or by a combination of them.

As mentioned previously embodiments are directed to a Radio Frequency Identification RFID system endorsing an RFID tag. Embodiments additionally include programs and methods of operation of the programs. A program is generally defined as a group of steps or operations leading to a desired result due to the nature of the elements in the steps and their sequence. A program may be implemented as a sequence of steps or operations for a processor but may be implemented in other processing elements such as FPGAs DSPs or other devices as described above.

Performing the steps instructions or operations of a program requires manipulating physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities may be transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated or processed according to the steps or instructions and they may also be stored in a computer readable medium. These quantities include for example electrical magnetic and electromagnetic charges or particles states of matter and in the more general case can include the states of any physical devices or elements. It is convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to information represented by the states of these quantities as bits data bits samples values symbols characters terms numbers or the like. It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are associated with the appropriate physical quantities and that these terms are merely convenient labels applied to these physical quantities individually or in groups.

Embodiments furthermore include storage media. Such media individually or in combination with others have stored thereon instructions data keys signatures and other data of a program made according to the embodiments. A storage medium according to the embodiments is a computer readable medium such as a memory and is read by a processor of the type mentioned above. If a memory it can be implemented in any of the ways and using any of the technologies described above.

Even though it is said that the program may be stored in a computer readable medium it should be clear to a person skilled in the art that it need not be a single memory or even a single machine. Various portions modules or features of it may reside in separate memories or even separate machines. The separate machines may be connected directly or through a network such as a local access network LAN or a global network such as the Internet.

Often for the sake of convenience only it is desirable to implement and describe a program as software. The software can be unitary or thought of in terms of various interconnected distinct software modules.

In contrast the ID which may identify the tag an item to which the tag is attached or both is stored in a portion of tag memory that is readable by an external device. For example the ID may include a tag identifier TID a key identifier KID a unique item identifier UII an electronic product code EPC a serialized trade identification number SGTIN or any other suitable identifier or identification code.

Similarly optional certificate may be stored in a portion of tag memory that is readable by an external device. If present certificate embodies one or more assertions that the tag and or its attached product possess one or more properties. For example the optional certificate may indicate a make model a country of origin size weight region of sale whether the product is hazardous whether it has been approved by one or more entities nongovernmental organizations NGOs governments laboratories or any other suitable organization whether it contains allergens whether it meets safety standards customer satisfaction ratings associated with the product whether it meets all relevant IP licensure requirements or other similar properties.

The optional certificate may also indicate properties about the production of the tag product. For example the optional certificate may indicate labor or farming practices associated with production e.g. no child labor used free range organic fair trade etc. or energy used during production.

Tag memory portion as with memory portion is configured to store ID similar to ID in and optional certificate similar to optional certificate in and be readable by an external device such as a reader. Tag memory portion can be further configured to be unwriteable write locked such that an external device cannot write to it thereby preventing damage to or loss of the ID and or the certificate .

Tag memory portion is similar to memory portion in that it is configured to store TKEY similar to TKEY in and usually is unreadable by an external device. As with tag memory portion tag memory portion can also be configured to be unwriteable thereby preventing damage to or loss of the TKEY . In some embodiments ID optional certificate and or TKEY may be encrypted.

At some point in time ID and optional certificate if present was written into tag memory portion and TKEY was written into tag memory portion . For example a tag manufacturer may generate ID and write it into tag memory portion when the tag was manufactured or soon afterward. Similarly the tag manufacturer may write the TKEY into tag memory portion either at the same time as ID or at some other time. The optional certificate may also be written by the tag manufacturer in the same way although in some embodiments the optional certificate is written by the product manufacturer retailer at a later time. Alternatively the tag supplier authenticating certifying entity or even another entity can perform the writing. Although tag memory portions and are shown as unwriteable write locked in the tag manufacturer product manufacturer retailer or other entity may write the ID optional certificate and or the TKEY before rendering the tag memory portions unwriteable or may write the data in some other way e.g. via direct physical access to the memory portions .

In some embodiments a reader may be able to reconfigure the tag in order to replace the ID the optional certificate and or TKEY written in tag memory portions and with a different ID certificate or TKEY. For example the tag memory portions may be configured to be unwriteable by readers without proper authorization but writeable by readers having proper authorization. Thus an authorized reader may be able to write a new ID certificate and or TKEY into the tag memory portions .

The interactions between reader and tag in diagram begin with an optional tag subpopulation selection where the reader selects one or more tags from a tag population for inventorying and or authentication. For example the reader may broadcast a selection command that includes one or more criteria to the tag population. The criteria in the selection command may include one or more tag flag values at least a portion of a tag identifier and or at least a portion of other data that can be stored on tags. Tags in the population that meet the one or more criteria for example having tag flag values and or stored data that match the tag flag value s and or data specified in the selection command may be considered as selected . In some embodiments the selection command may be the Select command of the Gen2 Specification.

Reader then performs an inventory to singulate an individual tag from the tag population or from within a subpopulation of selected tags if the reader performed optional tag selection . In some embodiments the reader performs the inventory according to the Query ACK sequence described in the Gen2 Specification. In the Gen2 Query ACK sequence a reader first transmits a Query QueryAdj QueryRep command. A tag that meets the criteria for responding may then reply with a 16 bit random pseudorandom number RN16 0. Upon receipt of the RN16 0 the reader transmits an Acknowledge command ACK with the RN16 0 to the tag which may then respond with its EPC.

After performing the inventory the reader then performs an access in order to access and read tag information from the tag singulated in inventory . The tag may store and the reader may access an identifier ID which may be the tag s EPC or another tag identifier a tag public key TPK corresponding to the TKEY if TKEY is a private key an electronic signature ES associated with the ID EPC and or TPK and optionally one or more other parameters such as a tag random number. The reader may begin the access by transmitting a REQ RN command with the RN16 0 received in inventory which requests a new random pseudorandom number from the tag for use as a tag handle. The tag then responds with a RN16 1 handle. The reader then transmits a read request to read one of more of the optional ID TPK ES and any other optional parameters. Upon receiving the read command sent by the reader the tag transmits the requested information to the reader.

The reader then challenges the tag in an authentication step . In the authentication step the reader may first optionally request a tag random number RN TAG from the tag which may be used to enhance the security of authentication step . RN TAG may have been previously stored in the tag generated in situ or generated in situ and then stored in the tag. In some embodiments the tag may generate RN TAG using its TKEY or by reading a tag random number that was previously stored in tag memory. After generating RN TAG the tag transmits it to the reader. The tag may encrypt the RN TAG before transmission. In some embodiments the tag may generate an initial value IV based on RN TAG and TKEY and transmit the IV to the reader in addition to or instead of RN TAG.

The reader then transmits a challenge to the tag. A challenge is a message that contains a random number which may be encrypted and one or more cryptographic parameters. The challenge instructs a receiving entity such as a tag or reader to determine a cryptographic response based on the random number the cryptographic parameter s and entity information such as an entity key an entity identifier or any other suitable entity information. The receiving entity may itself compute the cryptographic response using a cryptographic algorithm or may have another entity compute and provide the cryptographic response to the receiving entity. The challenge may be determined based on the random number and or an entity random number. A challenge may originate from another tag a reader or some other entity. In the situation described in diagram the challenge originates from the reader includes a reader random number RN RDR and may also include the RN TAG or IV if used .

Upon receiving the challenge the tag computes a response to the challenge based on the RN RDR the TKEY other cryptographic parameters included in the challenge the RN TAG or IV the tag handle RN16 1 another tag random number such as the RN16 0 and or any other suitable parameter. In some embodiments the tag may use a tag random number different from the RN TAG originally sent to the reader to generate the response. For example the tag random number used to generate the response may be derived from RN TAG based on some algorithm or may be entirely independent of RN TAG. The tag then sends the computed response to the reader.

At this point the tag s response may be verified by an authenticating entity. The authenticating entity which may be the reader and or a separate entity has some knowledge about the interrogated tag s . For example the authenticating entity may know the tag key TKEY and or the encryption algorithm s used by the tag s . The authenticating entity if not the reader may be known to the reader a priori or the reader may query a network or a tag for its identity.

At this point the authenticating entity may be able to verify the tag s response using the RN RDR the RN TAG IV the tag ID and or any other previously received or known parameter. For example if the reader is an authenticating entity it may verify the tag s response. The reader may instead or also send the challenge the received tag response and other information to another authenticating entity for f.

The authenticating entity whether the reader or a separate entity may then determine the tag key TKEY and or the particular encryption algorithm used by that tag e.g. by looking it up based on the received tag ID and use the determined TKEY encryption algorithm along with the original reader tag challenge and tag RN TAG IV if any to decrypt or verify the tag response. If the authenticating entity is able to decrypt verify the tag response based on its knowledge of the tag e.g. TKEY encryption algorithm then the authenticating entity confirms the tag response and thereby corroborates the tag s or attached item s authenticity.

In situations where the reader is not the authenticating entity the authenticating entity may generate the challenge and send it to the reader for transmission to the tag. In this case the reader may not transmit the original reader challenge back to the authenticating entity along with the tag response tag IV and the tag ID because the authenticating entity already knows the challenge used. Optionally the authenticating entity may generate and provide a random number e.g. the reader random number or an entirely different random number for the reader to use to generate the challenge.

As described above in some embodiments the tag s TKEY may be a private key and the tag may provide a corresponding TPK and an ES associated with the TPK and generated by a signing authority. The authenticating entity may obtain the signing authority s master public key via a network or other means and use the master public key to verify the ES thereby verifying the TPK. In some embodiments the authenticating entity may use an ID from the tag to identify the signing authority and or the master public key.

Subsequently the authenticating entity may send a challenge which may include the reader random number RN RDR to the tag receive a tag response to the challenge and verify the received tag response using the TPK. The tag may also provide a tag generated parameter such as a random number for use in verifying the tag response. In some embodiments the authenticating entity may encrypt the RN RDR in the challenge using the TPK receive a tag response with a decrypted random number and attempt to verify the tag response by comparing the RN RDR with the decrypted random number. In other embodiments the authenticating entity may include a plaintext RN RDR in the challenge receive a tag response with an encrypted random number and attempt to verify the tag response by decrypting the encrypted random number and comparing RN RDR with the decrypted random number.

In some embodiments reader may request one or more certificates from tag in an optional certificate acquisition step . As mentioned above certificates may include or designate one or more assertions or properties about a particular tag or tagged item. In optional certificate acquisition step reader requests and receives one or more certificates from tag . In some embodiments the tag may not store certificates and the reader may use the tag ID received in step or previously if the tag ID is the tag EPC to construct and or look up the certificate s .

In some embodiments a certifying entity may be used to validate one or more certificates associated with the tag. The reader itself may be the certifying entity or the reader may interact with the certifying entity indirectly e.g. through an authenticating entity or directly. The certifying entity may be known to the reader or authenticating entity a priori or may be determined via a network query. In some embodiments a tag may store the identity of a certifying entity suitable for certification and the reader may read the certification information from the tag and use it directly or pass it on to the authenticating entity.

As mentioned above the commands and signals in sequence do not have to be performed in the particular order shown or even grouped as shown. The commands and signals may be separated combined or interspersed among each other. For example in some embodiments the reader sends a challenge during tag selection preceding the access and the tag computes its response and stores the response in memory for subsequent reading by a reader. The tag s computation may also include a tag random number e.g. RN TAG an IV the tag handle and or RN16 0 or other tag parameter and the tag may store the tag random number and or the tag parameter for subsequent access by the reader. Indeed in embodiments where the challenge occurs during tag selection and reading the response occurs during tag access authentication need not exist because its operations have been spread among select and access .

One reason a reader may choose to send the challenge with select is for multiple tags to hear the challenge and compute their cryptographic responses in parallel. Because cryptographic computations can be time intensive enabling multiple tags to compute their responses in parallel allows more rapid authentication of a population of tags. In some embodiments the challenge itself may be sent to multiple tags simultaneously separately from select . In some embodiments a challenge that is transmitted to an individual tag may be an Authenticate command of the Gen2 Specification and a challenge that is broadcast to multiple tags may be a Challenge command of the Gen2 Specification.

In some embodiments an interrogated tag may transmit its tag ID with its response to a reader challenge instead of providing its tag ID in inventory or access . The tag may transmit its tag ID with its response as consecutive messages or may concatenate the response with the tag ID for example by prepending the response with the tag ID appending the tag ID to the tag response or otherwise combining the tag ID and the response in the same message. Similarly the certificate may be concatenated with the ID or the certificate may be concatenated with the response or the certificate ID and response may all be concatenated together. In some embodiments the concatenation may occur in the context of a Gush command as described in commonly assigned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 423 256 filed on Mar. 18 2012 and entitled RFID TAGS THAT BACKSCATTER MORE CODES hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

As another example the reader may send the request for the tag random number during the optional tag selection . Because the select signal in tag selection is broadcast to a population of tags multiple tags may receive the reader s tag random number request. In response each tag that receives the tag random number request may generate its own tag random number and then store the tag random number in tag memory. The reader may then subsequently read each tag e.g. in access to retrieve the stored tag random number.

Whereas authenticate step in sequence includes a tag random number in some embodiments step may not use or include a tag random number. In some embodiments a tag authentication may include a command count e.g. a count from the reader indicating the number of commands it has transmitted or a count from the tag indicating the number of commands it has received and or an electronic signature. Electronic signatures may include digital signatures generated via asymmetric cryptographic techniques and or message authentication codes generated via symmetric cryptographic techniques. Other authentication steps may include more or fewer steps than the particular authenticate step shown in sequence .

As described above a certificate may include or designate assertions about or properties of a tag or tagged item. Certificates may be requested from a tag an authenticating entity and or a certifying entity. In some embodiments a reader authenticating entity and or certifying entity may construct tag certificates based on a tag identifier. depicts a diagram of how a reader may construct a certificate based on a tag identifier according to embodiments.

As shown in diagram reader may be able to access one or more assertions regarding potential properties of a tag or of the product to which the tag is attached similar to those that would be embodied in a certificate stored in a tag. When the reader receives an identifier from a tag it may combine the identifier with the one or more assertions to construct a certificate . For example reader may construct certificate by concatenating identifier and assertions e.g. by appending or prepending identifier with assertions . In some embodiments reader may construct certificate by using identifier and assertions as inputs into a certificate generation algorithm which in turn may combine identifier and assertions for example using one or more arithmetic and logical operations to form certificate .

The assertions may be locally stored on the reader as shown in may be stored on the product to which the tag is attached may be stored on a display or sign associated with the product or may be stored on a remote server accessible to the reader via a network. The assertions may be stored in human readable form e.g. a certified organic logo scan readable form e.g. 1 D barcode 2 D barcode or similar symbology or machine readable form e.g. values stored in a memory or database . These assertions can be any of the product attributes described above that are embodied in certificates such as organic vegan vegetarian make and model country of origin child free labor green energy usage etc.

While in reader constructs tag certificate from identifier and assertions in other embodiments reader may transmit identifier and or assertions to a certifying entity or may itself be a certifying entity. The certifying entity may then either construct and validate certificate itself or may use the received identifier assertions to determine whether assertions about the tag identified by identifier are valid.

In diagram reader is communicating with a number of tags X and . In particular reader has singulated tag and receives its identifier e.g. an EPC or other identifier such as ID in . Reader then transmits a challenge e.g. the challenge in challenge response step to the tag . The tag which stores a secret e.g. a tag key such as TKEY in generates a response e.g. the F response in challenge response step based on its stored secret and optionally tag generated randomness . The tag then transmits its response to reader .

In some embodiments the tag also optionally transmits one or more certificates to the reader either because the reader explicitly requests the certificate s or because the tag is configured to transmit the certificate s when responding to reader challenges. In other embodiments instead of receiving certificates from tag reader may use identifier to look up certificates associated with tag or may construct one or more certificates based on the identifier .

In diagram reader is not an authenticating or certifying entity. Accordingly reader may communicate with a separate authenticating entity and or a separate certifying entity over one or more networks . In embodiments where reader is an authenticating and or certifying entity reader itself may perform the operations described below for authenticating entity and or certifying entity .

In order to authenticate tag reader transmits the identifier the challenge the response and optionally any indicators of tag generated randomness e.g. a tag random number or IV to authenticating entity . The authenticating entity stores or has access to information about the tag such as its secret and or the encryption algorithm it uses. The authenticating entity then uses this information the received identifier challenge and response to determine if the tag is authentic. For example in one embodiment the authenticating entity may use the received identifier to find and access a local copy of the tag s stored secret key compute a response from the secret key and the received challenge and compare the computed response with the actual received tag response. If the two responses match then the tag is authentic and if the responses do not match then the tag is not authentic. The authenticating entity may then optionally send a message which may be electronically signed by the authenticating entity to the reader via network s confirming or refuting the authenticity of the tag or the item it is attached to .

Reader may also communicate with certifying entity in order to ascertain if tag and or an associated item possess any particular certified properties. To do so reader may transmit the identifier and any received or constructed certificates to certifying entity . Tag or certificates may identify certifying entity for example with a name physical location and or network location such as a URL that identifies the certifying entity s internet address or reader may know certifying entity a priori. Depending on the received information certifying entity may attempt to either look up certificates properties or validate certificates .

If certifying entity receives the tag identifier but does not receive any certificates then certifying entity may use the identifier to determine whether tag has any associated certificates or asserted properties. For example certifying entity may store or have access to certificates and known tag properties and may use the tag identifier to determine if any of the certificates and known tag properties apply to tag . If certificates are provided by reader certifying entity may check certificates to determine whether they correspond to certificates known to certifying entity . In some embodiments certificates may have associated electronic signatures and certifying entity may validate certificates by authenticating the electronic signatures.

Upon determining whether tag is associated with particular certificates or properties or upon determining the validity of certificates the certifying entity may transmit an optional message to reader . Message may include certificates or properties associated with tag or may confirm or refute certificates . In some embodiments message may be electronically signed by certifying entity via a symmetric or asymmetric cryptographic algorithm so that a recipient can verify that message is genuine i.e. is actually from the correct certifying entity and has not been forged or altered using the appropriate cryptographic algorithm.

In some embodiments the messages may include the physical location of reader when the challenge was issued to the tag or when reader received the tag identifier and or certificates . The messages may also include a reader identifier and or may be signed with a reader electronic signature.

The authenticating entity and or the certifying entity may transmit notifications and respectively to one or more designated parties via network s . The notification may be electronically signed by authenticating entity and may indicate whether the authenticity of tag was confirmed or refuted. Similarly the notification may be electronically signed by certifying entity and may indicate whether tag has associated certificates or properties or whether one or more certificates received from tag were validated. For example a pharmaceutical distributor using an RFID enabled handheld reader to interrogate a shipment such as a case of medicine may utilize an authenticating entity which may send the reply to a designated party such as the distributor s security office or in some instances directly to the police in the event of counterfeit medicine. The same distributor may also utilize a certifying entity to ensure that the shipment has valid certificates indicating one or more properties e.g. has approval from appropriate authorities meets safety standards or any other suitable property and the certifying entity may notify a designated party if the shipment s certificates are invalid.

In some embodiments authenticating entity may transmit an optional message to reader indicating whether tag has been authenticated. In other embodiments authenticating entity may transmit a message only if tag authenticity has been confirmed if tag authenticity has been refuted or may not transmit a message to reader at all. Authenticating entity may also transmit a notification to designated party if the authenticity of tag has been confirmed or refuted only if tag authenticity has been confirmed or only if tag authenticity has been refuted.

Similarly certifying entity may transmit an optional message to reader . If reader had previously provided certificate s certifying entity may use message to indicate whether certificate s is valid. If reader only provided an identifier for tag certifying entity may include certificate s and or properties associated with tag in message . In some embodiments certifying entity may transmit a message only if received certificate s have been validated or an identified tag has associated certificates only if received certificate s have been refuted or may not transmit a message to reader at all. Certifying entity may also transmit a notification to designated party only if received certificate s have been validated or an identified tag has associated certificates only if received certificate s have been refuted or an identified tag does not have associated certificates or in both cases.

As shown in diagram reader authenticating entity certifying entity and designated party communicates over one or more networks . The network s may be available in real time meaning that an entity can engage with another entity on the network on a message by message basis or the network s may be non real time meaning that an entity stores or buffers its messages and transmits them to other entities when the network is available. Of course entities may also store and transmit messages to other entities on a network that is available in real time.

In one embodiment reader may store responses and or certificates from multiple tags before transmitting one or more of the responses certificates to authenticating entity and or certifying entity . In this embodiment the reader may configure its transmissions to take advantage of batch transmission. If the reader stores responses from multiple tags to a single challenge the reader may first transmit a subset one or more of the stored responses but only one copy of the challenge to the authenticating entity . Subsequently the reader may transmit more of the stored responses but no further challenges to the authenticating entity . Similarly if the reader stores certificates from multiple tags it may transmit a subset one or more of the stored certificates in one transmission and another subset of the stored certificates in another transmission. In some embodiments a particular stored certificate may embody assertions about more than one tag. In these embodiments the reader may only transmit a single copy of the certificate for multiple tags instead of transmitting a copy of the certificate for each tag.

In some embodiments the certifying entity may pre register certificates at the authenticating entity in advance so that the authenticating entity can act as a proxy for certifying entity and validate or refute a tag s certificates without having to communicate with certifying entity . In this situation reader may only transmit messages to authenticating entity and not to certifying entity although in some embodiments certifying entity may transmit certificates and or certificate confirmation refutation messages to reader . Alternatively the certifying entity may store authenticating information and act as a proxy for authenticating entity and may be able to authenticate a tag without having to communicate with authenticating entity . In this situation reader may only transmit messages to certifying entity and not to authenticating entity although in some embodiments authenticating entity may transmit tag authenticity confirmation refutation messages to reader . In other embodiments authenticating entity and certifying entity may be the same entity.

The reader may transmit tag identifiers challenges responses and tag certificates in different messages or may combine them in a single message. Similarly the authenticating entity certifying entity may transmit tag certificate confirmation refutation messages individually or as a single message. In some embodiments the reader may transmit a reader certificate to the authenticating entity and or the certifying entity where the reader certificate may embody one or more assertions about the reader. For example the reader certificate may indicate the authenticity or physical location of the reader.

Process begins with step where the reader e.g. reader in receives an identifier e.g. identifier in from a tag e.g. tag in . Upon receiving the identifier the reader challenges the tag at step e.g. by transmitting challenge in and receives a response to the challenge from the tag e.g. response in at step .

In some embodiments at optional step the reader determines one or more certificates associated with the tag. For example the reader may receive the certificate s from the tag e.g. certificate s in or may construct the certificate s based on the received identifier e.g. as described above in relation to . Subsequently the reader sends the received identifier the challenge the tag s response to the challenge and any determined certificate s to an authenticating entity e.g. authenticating entity in and or to a certifying entity e.g. certifying entity in at step . At optional step the reader may then receive electronically signed replies from the authenticating entity and or certifying entity. The reply from the authenticating entity may confirm or refute the tag response. If the reader determined and provided certificates to the certifying entity the reply from the certifying entity may confirm or refute the validity of the provided certificate s . If the reader did not provide certificates to the certifying entity then the reply from the certifying entity may include one or more certificates associated with the tag or may not include any certificates if no known certificates are associated with the tag. At optional step the reader may validate the received replies by checking their electronic signatures.

In the above description an authenticating entity authenticates a tag using a challenge sent to the tag and a response received from the tag. In some embodiments an authenticating entity may instead use the tag ID to determine tag authenticity. For example an authenticating entity may store or have access to a database or lookup table that stores the IDs of authentic tags. To determine whether a particular tag is authentic the authenticating entity may determine whether the ID of that tag is listed in the database or lookup table. If so then the authenticating entity may consider the tag authentic. If not then the authenticating entity may consider the tag counterfeit or may perform additional authentication for example as described above. In another embodiment an authenticating entity may instead use information recovered from the tag for instance a digital signature or a message authentication code and the authenticating entity may verify the correctness of the signature or the message authentication code. If the signature or message authentication is correct then the authenticating entity may consider the tag authentic. If not then the authenticating entity may consider the tag counterfeit or perform additional authenticating for example as described above.

The steps described in process are for illustrative purposes only. Network enabled RFID tag endorsement may be implemented using additional or fewer steps and in different orders using the principles described herein.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the devices and or processes via the use of block diagrams and or examples. Insofar as such block diagrams and or examples contain one or more functions and or aspects it will be understood by those within the art that each function and or aspect within such block diagrams or examples may be implemented according to embodiments formed individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof.

The present disclosure is not to be limited in terms of the particular embodiments described in this application which are intended as illustrations of various aspects. Many modifications and variations can be made without departing from its spirit and scope as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Functionally equivalent methods and apparatuses within the scope of the disclosure in addition to those enumerated herein will be apparent to those skilled in the art from the foregoing descriptions. Such modifications and variations are intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims. The present disclosure is to be limited only by the terms of the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. It is to be understood that this disclosure is not limited to particular methods configurations antennas transmission lines and the like which can of course vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

With respect to the use of substantially any plural and or singular terms herein those having skill in the art can translate from the plural to the singular and or from the singular to the plural as is appropriate to the context and or application. The various singular plural permutations may be expressly set forth herein for sake of clarity.

It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. . It will be further understood that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to embodiments containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers means at least two recitations or two or more recitations .

Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . Where a convention analogous to at least one of A B or C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B or C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . It will be further understood that virtually any disjunctive word and or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms whether in the description claims or drawings should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms either of the terms or both terms. For example the phrase A or B will be understood to include the possibilities of A or B or A and B. 

As will be understood by one skilled in the art for any and all purposes such as in terms of providing a written description all ranges disclosed herein also encompass any and all possible subranges and combinations of subranges thereof. Any listed range can be easily recognized as sufficiently describing and enabling the same range being broken down into at least equal halves thirds quarters fifths tenths etc. As a non limiting example each range discussed herein can be readily broken down into a lower third middle third and upper third etc. As will also be understood by one skilled in the art all language such as up to at least greater than less than and the like include the number recited and refer to ranges which can be subsequently broken down into subranges as discussed above. Finally as will be understood by one skilled in the art a range includes each individual member.

