---

title: User device detection and integration for an IVR system
abstract: A system and method includes one or more processors one or more processors coupled to a memory. The one or more processors may execute instructions from the memory to perform the steps including receiving an audio communications request from a first user device of a user, identifying a second user device of the user in response to receiving the audio communications request, providing a suggestion that the user use the second user device with the system, receiving a response from the user responding to the suggestion, establishing a communication channel with the second user device, and providing content associated with the audio communications request to the second user device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09609126&OS=09609126&RS=09609126
owner: PayPal, Inc.
number: 09609126
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150511
---
The present disclosure generally relates to interactive voice response systems and more specifically to systems and methods for integrating multiple user devices with an interactive voice response system.

As a way of reducing costs many entities incorporate interactive voice response IVR systems to direct and guide telephone call traffic to aid a caller to proper personnel or recording of an IVR menu. The caller may be attempting to reach customer support talk to a person in a particular department find a tutorial and or the like. However IVR systems can be frustrating for the caller in many cases. Callers may have to speak or push number keys on their phone to navigate through a long menu tree. In some cases callers may drill down an incorrect path of a menu tree and have to start over from the beginning to reach their intended destination. In some cases callers will attempt to skip the IVR system to go straight to an operator which defeats the purpose of the IVR system. Furthermore current IVR systems are poor at handling groups of callers calling for the same issue. For example many callers may call about a service outage and clog up the IVR system with this single issue. With past IVR systems an operator would have to deal with each caller individually one by one. This is because IVR systems tend to be an inflexible and unable to efficiently address dynamic problems and situations.

Additionally past IVR systems are unable to take advantage of new technologies that have developed. For example the IVR system was originally developed for client telephones communicating over PSTN or cellular networks and has not been changed to function cooperatively with smartphones beyond voice communications. There a plethora of higher functioning user devices that have become ubiquitous and could be advantageously integrated with an IVR system to give a better user experience especially now that unified communications are possible using IP based communications. It would be beneficial if devices such as the smart TV smart phones tablet computers and the like could be integrated with IVR calls to provide a better experience to a caller.

Thus a more flexible IVR system which detects and integrates multiple user devices would be desirable.

Embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure and not for purposes of limiting the same.

In the following description specific details are set forth describing some embodiments consistent with the present disclosure. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that some embodiments may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. The specific embodiments disclosed herein are meant to be illustrative but not limiting. One skilled in the art may realize other elements that although not specifically described here are within the scope and the spirit of this disclosure. In addition to avoid unnecessary repetition one or more features shown and described in association with one embodiment may be incorporated into other embodiments unless specifically described otherwise or if the one or more features would make an embodiment non functional.

Some embodiments disclosed herein include an IVR system that is capable integrating e.g. adding and or switching a device that has called into the IVR system to another device. For example a caller may have called the IVR system using a telephone connected to a PSTN network and the IVR system may facilitate the switching to and or integration of another device with the telephone such as a television smart phone tablet device personal computer and or the like. In some examples the IVR system may suggest a device and or detect available user devices for integration switching. In some examples the suggestions may be based on user input such as selections of one or more menu tree options provided by the IVR system. An IVR system may convey menu tree options through pre recordings and the caller may select the menu tree options through voice command a number key press on the telephone and or the like. The IVR system may use these selection choices to determine one or more devices for recommendation. For example if a user chose a menu option requesting help on fixing their telephone the system may suggest that the user switch and or integrate a television set to the call. In this manner the IVR system may facilitate the display of a video tutorial showing the caller how to fix the telephone or a video conference with technical support personnel.

In some examples the IVR system may detect and integrate computing devices such as a tablet computer and or smart phone with an IVR call to help navigate menus of an IVR system. For example instead of having to use voice commands and or touch tone button presses to navigate a menu tree the menu tree may be shown on a display of a computing device. The menu may be interactive where a user may use a touch screen and or other input devices to select a menu tree option. This could be in lieu of the IVR system playing a prerecording of IVR menu options one at a time as a user selects each menu tree category and subcategory.

In some examples the IVR system may integrate and or switch a call to a device with a display. The IVR system may cause the device to display additional information that is not generally available over traditional IVR phone calls. For example the IVR system may display information about the queue for getting in contact with an operator for one or more subject matters and or menu categories. In some examples the IVR system may provide the caller the options to click on a link and join a chat room a video conference call and or other modes of communications. In some examples the options may be tailored to the user device and or available user devices.

In some examples the IVR system may be able to detect predict what device the user is calling from and or the capabilities of the user device. In some examples the IVR system may be able to detect predict what devices are available to the caller for integrating with a present IVR call. The IVR system may recommend devices for integrating switching a device with a device currently being used for an IVR call based on the predicted detected available devices device capabilities and or the like.

In some embodiments an IVR system includes one or more processors coupled to a memory with instructions. The processor may execute the instructions from the memory to perform several processes. The processes may include receiving an audio communications request from a first user device of a user identifying a second user device of the user establishing an audio communication channel with the first device playing an audio recording suggesting that the user communicatively connect the second device with the IVR system receiving a response from the user device responding to the audio recording and establishing a second communication channel with the second device when the response from the user device indicates an agreement to communicatively connect the second devices with the IVR system.

In some embodiments a computer implemented method comprises receiving an audio communications request from a first user device of a user identifying a second user device of the user in response to receiving the audio communications request establishing an audio communication channel with the first device playing through the audio communication channel an audio recording suggesting that the user communicatively connect the second device receiving a response from the user device responding to the audio recording and establishing a second communication channel with the second device when the response from the user device indicates an agreement to communicatively connect the second device.

In some embodiments a non transitory computer readable medium having instructions that when executed by a processor performs a method. The method may include receiving an audio communications request from a first user device of a user identifying a second user device of the user in response to receiving the audio communications request establishing an audio communication channel with the first device playing through the audio communication channel an audio recording suggesting that the user communicatively connect the second device receiving a response from the user device responding to the audio recording and establishing a second communication channel with the second device when the response from the user device indicates an agreement to communicatively connect the second device.

In some embodiments an IVR system includes one or more processors coupled to a memory. The one or more processors may execute instructions from the memory to perform the steps including receiving an audio communications request from a first user device of a user identifying a second user device of the user in response to receiving the audio communications request providing a suggestion that the user use the second user device with the IVR system receiving a response from the user responding to the suggestion establishing a communication channel with the second user device and providing content associated with the audio communications request to the second user device.

In some embodiments a computer implemented method includes receiving an audio communications request from a first user device of a user connecting the first user device with an IVR service and identifying a second user device of the user in response to receiving the audio communications request providing a suggestion that the user use the second device with the IVR service receiving a response from the user responding to the suggestion establishing a communication channel with the second device and providing content associated with the IVR service to the second user device.

Computing system may include among various devices servers databases and other elements one or more client devices such as a landline telephone laptop a mobile computing device a tablet a PC a wearable device a cellular telephone smart phone smart television TV digital media player virtual reality headsets and or the like.

One or more of client devices may provide one or more client programs such as system programs and application programs to perform various computing and or communications operations. Exemplary system programs may include without limitation an operating system e.g. MICROSOFT OS UNIX OS LINUX OS Symbian OS Embedix OS Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS a Wireless Application Protocol WAP OS and others device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries application programming interfaces APIs and so forth. Exemplary application programs may include without limitation a web browser application messaging applications e.g. e mail IM SMS MMS telephone voicemail VoIP video messaging contacts application calendar application electronic document application database application media application e.g. music video television location based services LBS applications e.g. GPS mapping directions positioning systems geolocation point of interest locator that may utilize hardware components such as an antenna and so forth. One or more of the client programs may display various graphical user interfaces GUIs to present information to and or receive information from one or more users of client devices . In some embodiments client programs may include one or more applications configured to conduct some or all of the functionalities and or processes discussed below.

In some embodiments a non transitory computer readable medium includes instructions that when executed by a processor performs several method steps. The method steps may include receiving an audio communications request from a first user device of a user connecting the first user device with an IVR service and identifying a second user device of the user in response to receiving the audio communications request providing a suggestion that the user use a second user device with the IVR service receiving a response from the user responding to the suggestion establishing a communication channel with the second user device and providing content associated with the IVR service to the second user device.

As shown client devices may be communicatively coupled via one or more networks to IVR system . IVR system may be structured arranged and or configured to allow client devices to establish one or more communications sessions to IVR system . Accordingly a communications session between client devices and IVR system may involve the unidirectional and or bidirectional exchange of information and may occur over one or more types of networks depending on the mode of communication. While the embodiment of illustrates a computing system deployed in a client server operating environment it is to be understood that other suitable operating environments and or architectures may be used in accordance with the described embodiments.

Communications between client devices and the IVR system may be sent and received over one or more networks such as the Internet a WAN a WWAN a WLAN a mobile telephone network Bluetooth WiFi NFC a landline public switched telephone network PSTN as well as other suitable networks. Any of a wide variety of suitable communication types between client devices and system may take place as will be readily appreciated. For example wireless communications of any suitable form may take place between client devices and system such as that which often occurs in the case of mobile phones or other personal and or mobile devices.

In some embodiments client devices may be owned managed or operated by a single entity such as a person. For example client devices may include a smart watch smart phone smart TV tablet computer personal computer laptop digital media player e.g. Chromecast Roku Fire TV Apple TV etc. and or the like. In some embodiments client devices may form a mesh network and or a personal area network . Personal area network may be created using short range wireless communicators such as Bluetooth Bluetooth low energy wireless infrared communications wireless USB Wi Fi or other wireless technologies for exchanging data over short distances. In some embodiments one or more of client devices may act as a wireless hotspot for other client devices to connect to one or more networks and communicate with IVR system .

In some embodiments computing system may include one or more operator devices communicatively connected to client devices and or IVR system through one or more networks . In some examples IVR system may route calls and or facilitate communications from one or more client device to one or more operator devices . In some embodiments operator devices may be devices held in a call center.

IVR system may comprise one or more communications servers to provide suitable interfaces that enable communication using various modes of communication and or via one or more networks . Communications servers may include a web server an API server and or a messaging server to provide interfaces to one or more application servers . Application servers of IVR system may be structured arranged and or configured to provide access to one or more applications. In some examples the application servers may run an IVR application for answering phone calls playing prerecorded voice responses a menu tree transferring a call to an appropriate operator and or the like. The IVR application may be tailored to the type of phone service being provided such as telephone banking tech support voting payment services and or the like. Application servers may also include one or more applications for payment security payment authorization device authentication account access account security payment handling call switching device detection VoIP instant messaging and or the like.

In various embodiments client devices may communicate with application servers of IVR system via one or more interfaces provided by communication servers . It may be appreciated that IVR system may be structured arranged and or configured to communicate with various types of client devices and operator devices .

Application servers in turn may be coupled to and capable of accessing one or more databases including but not limited to a user database a device database and or application database . Databases generally may store and maintain various types of information for use by application servers and may comprise or be implemented by various types of computer storage devices e.g. servers memory and or database structures e.g. relational object oriented hierarchical dimensional network in accordance with the described embodiments. In some embodiments the information held in the databases may be stored on one or more of client devices . The data may be held in a distributed fashion and or redundant fashion.

Computer system may include a bus or other communication mechanisms for communicating information data signals and information between various components of computer system . Computer system may include an input output I O component that processes a user action such as selecting keys from a keypad keyboard selecting one or more buttons links actuatable elements etc. and sends a corresponding signal to bus . Computer system may also include a display which may display information. In some embodiments display may double as a I O component. For example display may be a touch screen device. In some embodiments computer system may include an audio input output component . Audio input output component may be able to transmit and or receive audio signals to and or from the user.

Computer system may include a near short range communications interface . Short range communications interface may be capable of exchanging data with other devices with short range communications interfaces. In some embodiments computer system may have several short range communications interfaces using different communication protocols and may join one or more networks using short range communications interface .

Short range communications interface in various embodiments may include transceiver circuitry and or an antenna. Short range communications interface may use one or more short range wireless communication technologies and standards e.g. WiFi Bluetooth Bluetooth low energy infrared etc. .

Short range communications interface in various embodiments may be configured to detect other devices with short range communications technology near computer system . Short range communications interface may create a communication area for detecting other devices with short range communication capabilities. When other devices with short range communications capabilities are placed in the communication area of short range communications interface short range communications interface may detect the other devices and exchange data with the other devices. Short range communications interface may receive identifier data packets from the other devices when in sufficiently close proximity. The identifier data packets may include one or more identifiers which may be operating system registry entries cookies associated with an application identifiers associated with hardware of the other device or various other appropriate identifiers. The identifiers may be used to identify the capabilities of the other device make and or model of the device and or the like.

In some embodiments short range communications interface may identify a local area network using a short range communications protocol such as WiFi and join the local area network. In some examples computer system may discover and or communicate with other devices that are a part of the local area network using short range communications interface . In some embodiments short range communications interface may further exchange data and information with the other devices that are communicatively coupled with short range communications interface .

Computer system may have a transceiver or network interface that transmits and receives signals between computer system and other devices such as another user device a merchant server an email server application service provider web server a social networking server a payment provider server and or other servers via a network. In various embodiments this transmission may be wireless although other transmission mediums and methods may also be suitable. A processor which may be a micro controller digital signal processor DSP or other processing component processes these various signals such as for display on computer system or transmission to other devices over a network via a communication link . Again communication link may be a wireless communication in some embodiments. Processor may also control transmission of information such as cookies IP addresses and or the like to other devices.

Components of computer system also include a system memory component e.g. RAM a static storage component e.g. ROM and or a disk drive . Computer system performs specific operations by processor and other components by executing one or more sequences of instructions contained in system memory component . Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and or transmission media. In various implementations non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . In one embodiment the logic is encoded in a non transitory machine readable medium. In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave optical and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media include for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by computer system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of computer systems coupled by communication link to the network e.g. such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another. Modules described herein may be embodied in one or more computer readable media or be in communication with one or more processors to execute or process the steps described herein.

A computer system may transmit and receive messages data information and instructions including one or more programs i.e. application code through a communication link and a communication interface. Received program code may be executed by a processor as received and or stored in a disk drive component or some other non volatile storage component for execution.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable media. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Such software may be stored and or used at one or more locations along or throughout the system at client IVR system or both. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The foregoing networks systems devices and numerous variations thereof may be used to implement one or more services such as the services discussed above and in more detail below.

At process the system such as IVR system of may receive a telephone call and or other requests for audio communications. This phone call may come from a user device such as one of client devices of over one or more communication channels such as the PSTN cellular network IP network and or the like. In some examples devices calling through an IP network may be using a software application designed to integrate and communicate with the system such that the system can conduct other internet based services with the calling device. Other internet based services may include but are not limited to video calls video playback display of an image application functionality web page display and or the like. The call coming over the IP network may use one or more communication protocols one of the protocols may be a VoIP protocol such as SIP H.323 MGCP SCCP and or the like.

At process the system may identify the device and or device capabilities of the device conducting the telephone call received at process . The system may implement one or more techniques for identifying the calling device and its capabilities. In some examples the system may identify the calling device based on the method and or audio communication channels used. For example if the call passes through a PSTN gateway the system may determine and or predict that the calling device is a landline telephone using the PSTN. Similarly if the call passes through a GSM CDMA or other cellular gateway the system may determine or predict that the device is a mobile phone. Additionally when a call does not transfer through a gateway and is received over the internet using VoIP the system may determine and or predict that the device is a network internet enabled device. In some examples the system may identify the device capabilities based on and or from the communication protocol and or protocols that the device uses to connect with the system. For example the XMPP protocol has feature negotiation and discovery protocols which allow a system to query the capabilities and features of a device communicating with the system. As such the system may request functionality information from the calling device. For example the system may determine if the device has conferencing capabilities a display and or camera certain operating systems software applications web browsing capabilities and or the like.

In some embodiments the system may receive and or request a device identifier which identifies the device make model and or the like. The system may use the device identifier to determine the device s capabilities. For example the system may have one or more databases such as device databases of associating devices with device capabilities and use the database to determine the capabilities of the calling device.

In some embodiments the system may determine the device type and or capabilities based on the software identifiers that are provided by the device. For example some communication protocols allow for the application user agent to identity itself by providing a user agent header field in a data packet. The user agent header may provide information such as such as the type of application being run the operating system on the device software vendor software version number and or the like. The system may be able to determine the capabilities of the device from the capabilities of the software being run on the device. For example the system may have a database such as application database of associating applications with application capabilities and use the database to identify the capabilities of the device application being run on the device.

In some embodiments the system may be able to determine the capabilities of a device based on the phone number the device is calling to reach the system. For example the calling device may be calling the system using a phone number IP address and or the like collectively referred to as a calling number which the system may recognize as being provided as part of a programming application or dedicated to calls from devices using a software application. The calling number may not be advertised and or public such that the system could predict that any calls using that number are from devices using a programming application.

At process the system may route connect the call to an IVR application which may provide an audio IVR menu. In some embodiments the IVR application may be an application run by the system that provides and receives audio feedback to and from a caller such that a caller may navigate a menu tree. In some example the IVR application may use VoiceXML VXML . However other proprietary and or standard programing languages may be used for the IVR application.

In some embodiments the system may also provide additional functionalities and or features based on the identified user device at process . For example the system may recognize that the user is calling using an application capable of conducting communication protocols for video web content images and or other application communications. In some embodiments the additional communication protocols and application capabilities supported on the device may include the ability to provide an interactive display. In such cases the system may enable control and or provide a graphical user interface GUI menu on a user device for navigating and or skipping through the IVR application menu tree. The GUI may also provide additional functionalities and information that are discussed in more detail below.

At process the system may identify the content or subject matter that the caller is calling about. In some examples this may be determined by tracking where the user is navigating through the IVR application menu tree. IVR applications generally have decision trees with broad categories at the beginning such as technical support billing customer service operator account information and or the like. The system may use the categories in the decision tree to identify the subject matter and the subject matter determination may become more and more specific and or accurate as the user drills through the menu tree of the IVR application. For example the category may have a form such as support device set up operating system A wherein each field is an additional branch and or subcategory on a menu tree that the caller may have traversed.

At process the system may determine that the subject matter that the user is calling about may be better addressed with another device and recommend devices for the user to transfer the IVR call to or view in conjunction with the IVR call. For example if a person is calling from a mobile device they are trying to trouble shoot the system may recommend that the user integrate another device with the IVR system such as a landline phone so that the user can freely trouble shoot the mobile device without disconnecting or disengaging from the IVR system. In some examples the system may determine that the subject matter is better addressed with another device because the calling device is incapable of providing some content. In some examples having a display a larger display a mouse keyboard and or touch screen may be beneficial in addressing the subject matter of a call but those capabilities may be lacking on the calling device. For example the IVR system may determine that the caller is calling about an issue with a purchase and a screen may help provide information about the purchase. The user may be calling about a purchase received that did not fit its description and the IVR system may display the purchase item and its description for the user to double check. In some examples the IVR system may also play an ad such as an ad related to a product the user is calling about. For example if the caller is calling about a purchase problem the system may advertise another product that does not have this problem. The system may provide clickable links for ease of purchase. In some embodiments some of this content may be displayed while the user is waiting for an operator. In some embodiments the system may detect the available devices for the user and provide a recommendation based on the available devices. The system may recommend that the caller switch to a user device with a large display such that a tutorial video to trouble shoot a problem can be provided and viewed or more easily viewed. Similarly the system may recommend that the call be transferred to a personal computer or another device that is capable of joining a chat room with other individuals having similar issues. The system may also recommend a device with a touch screen be used for answering a survey. In some examples the system may recommend a device capable of running a web application and or device application such that the system can cause the device to display content such as an online streaming a tutorial video. In some examples the system may route the caller to an operator and the system may provide capabilities to an operator device such as operator device of for aiding the operator in suggesting and or transferring a caller to a different device.

In some embodiments the system may provide the caller with several options of devices to the user for integrating or transferring the IVR call. In some examples the options may be provided through audio instructions from the IVR application or a push text notification to one or more devices different from the one placing the IVR call. In some embodiments the system may create separate queues for different devices and recommend a device where the queues are shorter. For example there may be no queue when joining a chat room but a long queue for an audio communication with an operator. In some examples there may be a separate queue for callers willing to conduct video conferences to solve their issues. The video conference queue may be shorter because callers may be less willing to do a video conference and or because video conferences solve issues quicker.

At process the system may receive a selection from the user in the form of a voice command a button press which may be identified by its tone if the device uses dual tone multi frequency DTMF signaling and or the like. In response the system may provide a session code or identifier which may be a unique string of numbers for identifying the caller. This code or identifier may be used to integrate another device with the IVR call and or transfer an IVR call from one device to another device. In some embodiments multiple devices may be integrated with the IVR call. For example a user may integrate a tablet device television and or other devices with a landline phone call. Each device may be used for a unique functionality to that device.

In some embodiments the user device may be in communications with the system using a software agent capable of relaying GUI interface commands to the server. For example a user device may have an application displaying a menu tree for the IVR system with each menu option being an actuatable button. The actuation of one or more buttons in the GUI may send a signal to the system through the software agent and the system may recognize the user selection from the signal.

At process the system may receive a communication request from a new device and receive the same code and or identifier that were provided at process . In this manner the system can integrate the new device with the appropriate IVR call by matching the code and or identifier. The system may then provide content tailored for the new device. In some examples the system may check for the device capabilities application and or device identifiers to ensure that the tailored content can be rendered on the new device. For example a video conference may use a certain video codec and the system may check that the application on the user device is capable of playing the video codec.

In some examples the caller may have been waiting in a line for a live agent or operator to answer their call and their place in line may be maintained with the new device. In some embodiments the system may have separate call waiting lines depending on the device and move the caller to a new line based on the new device being used with the system. In some examples device recommendations to the user at process may also come with queue indicators and or wait times that might change if the user switches and or integrate another device. This may be used as an incentive to motivate the caller to switch to and or integrate a different device with the system. A different device may aid the operator or the IVR system to handle the subject matter for the user quicker and or in bulk with multiple users. As a result queues for operators may be reduced and the efficiency of the IVR system may be increased. For example the IVR system may recognize that there are a lot of calls with a certain city area codes directed to the subject matter of service outage and set up a forum to address service outage calls from those area codes in bulk parallel. The IVR system may recognize that a video conference of multiple callers or a chat room with multiple callers to a single operator may be more efficient than having an operator address each caller individually from the queue. In response to recognizing that forum may be more efficient for addressing callers the IVR system may implement a new communication format and recommend callers to switch to devices capable of communicating in the new communication format to have their issues addressed. A more detailed discussion on setting up new communication formats based on high volume subject matter is discussed in more detailed below and may be implemented in process .

In some embodiments the IVR system may encourage certain devices such that ads can be shown to the caller while they are waiting. For example playing video ads on a device may help pay for call centers. The system may let a caller skip other callers in line for an operator and or join an accelerated queue to an operator if the caller agrees to switch to a device that is capable of displaying the ads.

At process the system may detect a high volume of calls for a particular subject matter. The system may implement one or more pattern recognition algorithms for detecting the high volume calls for a subject matter. In some examples the system may detect a high volume of calls or wait times for callers calling a particular department such as technical support. The system may recognize a pattern where there are many callers choosing the same menu branch in an IVR application decision tree and or calling about the same or similar matters. For example the system may count and or keep a count of the number of callers calling about a particular subject matter. The subject matter may be categories and or subcategories of a decision tree in an IVR application. The system may have a threshold value which is considered as high volume. The threshold value may be predetermined and or set by an administrator of the system and when the number of callers passes the threshold the system may recognize that subject matter as having a high volume of calls.

In some embodiments the system may predict wait times for operators to detect high volume calls for a subject matter. For example the system may count the number of callers waiting in line for an operator for a particular subject matter measure the average time it takes for a caller to have their issue resolved with an operator and determine the wait time by multiplying the average time and the number of callers in line.

At process the system may setup a forum for addressing high call volume subject matters. In some examples the forum may be automatically created such as a chat room a video conference a tutorial video and or the like. The forum may be created depending on the subject matter. For example a service outage may be better addressed with a chat room or a persistent textual forum where past discussions can be reviewed. In this manner an operator can address the issue without having to repeat themselves because the historic answers may be reviewed by new callers joining the forum. In some embodiments each subject matter may have a predetermined forum that the system creates when the system detects a high volume of calls for that subject matter.

In some examples the system may alert an operator administrator or someone else that a certain subject matter is getting unusually high volume of callers and or that there are unusually long wait times. The system may also suggest that a new communication forum be created to address the large volume of callers. The operator administrator or someone else may respond by choosing one of the new communication formats suggested by the system and or setting up a new communication format. In some examples the suggested communication format may be based on a statistical analysis on the devices the users are calling from. For example if a majority of callers are calling using a smartphone the system may suggest a communication format compatible with the smartphone.

At process the system may determine device capabilities and or devices that may be suitable for participating in the new communication format. Some communication formats may require capabilities such as video playback instant messaging access to a web browser has certain software installs ability to communicate with certain software and or the like.

At process the system may have the IVR application provide callers with the option to join the new communication format when the system detects that the user is using a devices with suitable capabilities. In some examples the system may recommend callers to switch to devices that have suitable capabilities and join the new communication format. The recommendation may be a audio recording provided through an IVR application that also provides a way of indicating to the system that the user wishes to change to another device. For example the system may listen for a voice command or a button press that would indicate that the user wishes to switch devices.

At process the system may route callers to the new communication format when callers using devices with suitable capabilities chooses to join the new communication format or switches to a device with suitable capabilities. For example the calling device may be running an application capable of receiving video and or instant messaging communications from the system. The system may begin communicating with the calling device through the application using the new communication format. This may include using one or more communication protocols that may be different than the communication protocol used to initially call the system and or IVR application. In some examples the content may be formatted for the device. For example the content may be formatted for screen size input out devices e.g. touch screen mouse keyboard etc. battery life available applications and or the like of the device.

In some embodiments the user device may be incapable of communicating in the new communication format and may have to switch to another calling device. The system help facilitate switching devices by providing a code and or call identifier to identify the current place position and or state of the IVR call. In this manner the user may switch devices without losing their place in an IVR call by providing the code and or call identifier. The system may when receiving a code and or call identifier transfer the call to a place position and or state associated with the code and or call identifier.

In some embodiments the user may be able to integrate several devices with the IVR call. For example the system may recommend that the user use a television as part of the IVR call to show a video a land line telephone for the user to communicate with an operator and a tablet for navigating a menu tree.

At process the system may determine whether a device is calling through the internet. This may be determined based on the communication protocols used and or whether the call is routed through a gateway for converting communications from one network to another. For example if a call is routed through a gateway such as a gateway for converting communications over PSTN to VoIP the system may recognize that this call is not internet based. If the call is pure VoIP and is not being passed through a gateway the system may assume that the device is calling over the internet. In some examples the system may assume that a call is internet based if the call is using additional internet based communication protocols along with VoIP. When the system determines that the call is internet based the system may continue to process to detect the capabilities of the calling device. When the system determines that the call is using protocols for non internet networks e.g. PSTN GSM CDMA etc. the system may continue to process to determine available user devices using heuristic methods.

At process the system may determine the capabilities of the calling device and whether the device has the ability to detect nearby devices. For example the system may check to see if the calling device is a part of a network of user devices. In some examples the system may check to see if the calling device has Bluetooth capabilities and the ability to ping or detect other devices. In some examples the system may check to see if the device is part of a personal area network. These capabilities may be determined by evaluating the software on the device the device make and or model device versions and or the like.

When the calling device does have the proper capabilities the system may continue to process to detect available devices. When the calling device does not have the proper capabilities to detect available devices the system may continue to process to determine available devices based on heuristic methods.

At process the system may request the device to detect for additional available user devices. This may be a command sent to the device to use a wireless communication protocol such as Bluetooth and or other personal area network communications to identify devices nearby e.g. communicatively connected by a local area network and relay this information to the system. Based on the received response and available devices the system may recommend a device at process . In some embodiments the system may store the detected available devices in a database associated with the caller caller s ID phone number and or the like for future references.

At process the system may heuristically determine available user devices. In some examples the system may request the user to identify additional devices that the user is able to conduct a call with. This may be a voice recording played by an IVR application and a request to press or provide a response with a voice command and or button indicating devices that the user has available. In some embodiments the system may check a database for a user account associated with the caller. For example the system may cross check the phone number of the caller with a database for other devices that might be associated with that number or person calling from that number.

If the system has no records of any additional devices at process the system may at process suggest the user use one or more other devices from a predetermined list of devices. The system may present the list of devices as a voice recording where the user may respond with a voice command and or a button press. The system may also provide the option for the user to continue the IVR call with the current device used. In some examples if the user selects a new device the system may record the new device in a database associated with the phone number the user called from. In another embodiment the system may determine locations of various devices associated with the user such as based on GPS or other location determining components in the devices. Devices associated with the user which may be determined from a user account that includes devices associated with the account and located nearby may be identified as one or more devices for integrating with the IVR call.

If the system determines at process that there are other devices available to the user the system may at process recommend that the user switch to or additional use one of the available devices. In some examples process may recommend a device based on queue lengths available communication modes tailored communication modes for a particular subject matters and or the like. In some examples process may recommend a combination of devices based on the functionality of available devices and the content. For example some content may be suitable for a large display and a keyboard but the user may have a TV and a small screened tablet device available. In cases like these the system may recommend that both the TV and the tablet be integrated for the call the TV for the screen and the tablet for a virtual keyboard. In some examples the system may recommend devices based on the type of content e.g. video chat room survey application etc. . In some examples there may be content tailored for one or more particular devices and the system may recommend one or more devices such that one or more of the tailored contents are accessible to the user.

In some embodiments GUI may display a menu tree that corresponds to a menu tree of an IVR application on the system. The menu tree may have selectable categories and subcategories and . In some embodiments the displayed categories and subcategories may be actuatable elements which a user may select by tapping on a touch screen display in the area of the displayed categories subcategories and or clicking on the displayed categories subcategories using a software pointer. In some examples the software pointer may be controlled by an external peripheral such as a mouse. Other methods of selecting a category subcategory of a menu tree would be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art and are contemplated herein.

In some embodiments the selection on one or more categories and subcategories may expand the menu tree to display additional subcategories. For example selecting the customer service category may cause GUI to expand the menu tree to display billing subcategory change subscription subcategory and technical support subcategory . Similarly clicking on the technical support subcategory may cause GUI to expand the technical support subcategory to display no service subcategory software update subcategory and device setup subcategory . Subcategories and may also be edge menu tree options and or options at the end of menu.

In some embodiments edge menu tree options and may be selectable. Selecting one or more of the edge menu tree options may send a signal to an IVR application to connect the device communicatively with an operator. In some examples the device may join a call queue to one or more operators.

In some embodiments when there is a call queue GUI may display additional information regarding the queue. For example GUI may display an indication of the queue and or which may display the number of callers in line ahead of the user. In some examples GUI may display the approximated wait times and for the queues.

In some embodiments GUI may display alternative communication modes and corresponding devices for addressing a subject matter. For example the device may allow for the user to switch from an IVR call to a chat room video tutorial and or video conference . GUI may also provide queue information for the alternative options such as alternate wait times. In some embodiments the GUI may provide selectable links that allow the user to switch to an alternative communication mode the links specifying a particular compatible device.

In some examples the alternative options may specify particular subject matter that it would be addressing. For example chat room may be specifically addressing service outages in California.

Thus when a user dials in or otherwise engages with an IVR service one or more additional or alternate devices may be used to augment or improve the user experience. Other devices may be automatically detected suggested and or connected based on determinations of content the user may want device capabilities and power levels location and the like. For example a device may be low on power and thus not selected for additional use especially if the device is a primary or device the user operates a lot. In another example if a device is detected in a movie theater or other location where audible sounds may be an issue the device may not be selected if the content would produce sound others may hear. It should be noted that the determination and subsequent communication of content to a new device may occur throughout a call initiated through IVR such as when a selected device is no longer operable or able to provide content e.g. lost or sporadic connectivity low or loss of power etc. .

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed omitted combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide one or more features described herein.

The foregoing disclosure is not intended to limit the present disclosure to the precise forms or particular fields of use disclosed. As such it is contemplated that various alternate embodiments and or modifications to the present disclosure whether explicitly described or implied herein are possible in light of the disclosure. Having thus described embodiments of the present disclosure persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is limited only by the claims.

