---

title: Systems and methods for in-vehicle navigated shopping
abstract: Systems and methods to provide a navigated-shopping service are discussed. In an example, a method for navigated-shopping can include receiving a destination location, accessing a route to the destination, displaying the route with indications of a plurality of items for purchase, receiving selection of a selected item, and purchasing the selected item. The plurality of items for purchase can be within a predefined distance of at least one point along the route. The selection of the selected item can include selection of a retail location of a plurality of retail locations along the route.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09581463&OS=09581463&RS=09581463
owner: eBay Inc.
number: 09581463
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151026
---
This application is a continuation of and claims the benefit of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 691 291 filed Nov. 30 2012 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 614 930 filed Mar. 23 2012 each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The Internet and the World Wide Web have given rise to a wide variety of on line retailers that operate virtual stores from which consumers can purchase products i.e. merchandise or goods as well as services. Although the popularity of these on line retail sites is clearly evidenced by their increasing sales for a variety of reasons some consumers may still prefer to purchase products and services in a more conventional manner i.e. via a brick and mortar store. Even when purchasing products and services from a brick and mortar store various web based applications and tools may be used to perform preliminary research about products and services. Increasingly brick and mortar stores are providing online and mobile focused purchasing options to augment traditional in store sales and to compete with purely online retailers.

Location For the purposes of this specification and the associated claims the term location is used to refer to a geographic location such as a longitude latitude combination or a street address. The term location is also used within this specification in reference to a physical location associated with a retail outlet e.g. store .

Real time For the purposes of this specification and the associated claims the term real time is used to refer to calculations or operations performed on the fly as events occur or input is received by the operable system. However the use of the term real time is not intended to preclude operations that cause some latency between input and response so long as the latency is an unintended consequence induced by the performance characteristics of the machine.

Example systems and methods for providing and using various location enabled shopping functions are described. In an example the systems and methods can provide data processing techniques for processing a search query to identify a set of search results relating to products and or services that are being offered either online or via a brick and mortar retail store and then present those search results in such a manner that conveys to the viewer in a simple and intuitive manner the distance and or travel time between a location of the user and a product or service presented within each individual search result associated with a brick and mortar store. In another example the systems and methods can provide data processing techniques for establishing a search query and then processing the search query to identify a set of search results that satisfy the search query at least in part because the search results are associated with brick and mortar stores that are in close proximity with a user defined corridor or commute route. In yet another example the systems and methods can provide a navigated shopping service allowing a user to use a location aware mobile device to shop en route to a desired destination. In an example the navigated shopping service can work in coordination with registered merchants to provide convenient access to items on a user s shopping list with minimal disruption or deviation from a planned route.

In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various aspects of different embodiments of the present invention. It will be evident however to one skilled in the art that the present inventive subject matter may be practiced without all of the specific details.

Consistent with some embodiments of the invention a web based search engine processes search queries and returns to a requesting client computing device search results that are arranged based at least in part on the travel time required to travel from a first location e.g. the user s current location to the location of a store at which a product or service associated with a search result is being offered. Accordingly the search results may be presented such that the closest store in terms of travel time that is offering a product satisfying the search query is presented first in the list of search results. With some embodiments the user can toggle the presentation of search results between distance and time such that the search results can be ordered based on distance e.g. the geodesic distance or distance as the crow flies or the more practical and useful measure based on the travel time required to travel between the location of the user and the location of the store offering the product or service presented in a search result. With some embodiments the user can specify a mode of transportation e.g. walking biking automobile public transportation etc. and the travel time will be derived based on the routes available when travelling via the selected mode. With some embodiments various filtering criteria may be applied. For example the user may request that only search results satisfying the query and associated with a store that is within a predefined travel time or distance be presented. Similarly a user may select one or more specific stores e.g. Apple Store Best Buy Walmart and so forth to see only search results showing products services being offered by those stores.

With some embodiments parameters for the search query may be established by a user interacting with a map. In particular with some embodiments a user may interact with a map to specify any one or more of the starting location to be used for deriving the distance or travel time to the products or services associated with the individual search results a specific geographical region of interest from which to display search results a corridor or commuting route from which any point along the corridor can be used as the starting point to derive the distance to a store associated with a search result. The map may be presented as part of a web based map application a desktop computer application or an application that is specific to a particular mobile computing platform e.g. such as Apple s iOS or Google s Android operating systems. 

For instance with some embodiments a user may simply select a location on a map using a pointing device such as a mouse or a finger or stylus with a touch screen display to indicate his current location or a location at which the user will be at some future time and from which the distance or travel time to another locations should be derived. With some embodiments the user may define a circular region by simply dragging his or her finger or stylus or taking a similar action with a pointing device to specify a diameter or radius of a circle making up a circular region see example illustrated in from which search results should be presented. In other embodiments the user may simply draw any closed shape to specify the region to be searched for local results. In yet other embodiments the user may trace or highlight a specific road or set of roads that comprise a route that the user frequently travels. This route can then be used to identify stores associated with search results such that those stores closest in distance or travel time to any point along the route can be presented.

With some embodiments the search results may be shown in a simple list with each individual result including any one or more of a price at which a product or service is being offered a store name virtual online or physical e.g. local brick and mortar a brief description of the product or service being offered a physical distance from a user s location to the store at which the product or service is being offered a link to share the listing with someone a link to a map showing directions from the user s current location or some user specified location to the store a travel time indicating how long in time it would take the user to travel via a particular mode to the location of the store at which the product is being offered and a quantity of a product being offered at the store. With some embodiments search results for online virtual stores are shown separately from the search results for locally available products and or services while in some embodiments the search results are intermingled and or arranged according to some other specific aspect or attribute such as price. With some embodiments a user may filter the search results to only view products and or services located at stores within a threshold distance located at stores within a threshold travel time where the mode of travel can be specified that have prices that are less than or exceed some threshold price and so forth.

With some embodiments the search results may be presented via a multi axis table with each axis representing a single attribute of interest. For example with some embodiments the search results may be represented as graphics or icons presented along an X and Y axis with the X axis representing distance or travel time and the Y axis representing price see example user interface of . With such an embodiment the user can very quickly get a sense of which local store is both closest in distance and or travel time and has a product at a reasonable price relative to other stores. Other beneficial aspects of the embodiments of the present invention will be readily apparent from the description of the figures that follows.

Consistent with some embodiments of the invention an application executing on a client computing device allows a user to interact with a user interface presented via the client computing device to provide one or more search terms for use in a search query to be executed against a set of marketplace listings hosted at a publication server system. The search query is then communicated to a search engine operating in conjunction with the publication server system and processed to identify search results that satisfy the user provided search terms. In addition to communicating the search term s as part of the search query the client computing device communicates to the search engine information identifying a corridor or route such as the portions of one or more roads on which a user tends to travel as part of a daily commute. The search engine then processes the search query to identify the marketplace listings that satisfy the search query and are associated with a brick and mortar store that is within some predefined distance of a point along the corridor or commute route.

With some embodiments the information identifying the corridor or commute route is established by the user interacting with an interactive map that is part of the application that facilitates the search query. For example with some embodiments a user may select e.g. with a finger or stylus on a touch sensitive display or a pointing device with a conventional display a starting location on a map and then trace or drag his finger or stylus or pointing device along a road or set of roads displayed in the map thereby selecting or otherwise specifying a route frequently travelled by the user. With other embodiments a software application may analyze location information generated by a location based device e.g. a global positioning system GPS device that is part of a mobile computing device. Accordingly the corridor or commute route may be automatically determined by analysing the historical location information generated by the mobile computing device.

With some embodiments the user may specify a threshold distance that s he is willing to travel from his or her commute path to visit a store and obtain a product service associated with a search result. Accordingly only those search results that are associated with products services being offered at locations within the predefined threshold will be displayed or presented. For example the search engine will use the information identifying the corridor or commute path and the threshold distance to identify only the relevant search results. Alternatively the search engine or an application on the client computing device will filter the search results to only display the relevant results i.e. those satisfying the distance threshold defined by the user . With some embodiments the search results are presented on a map for example as pins or icons positioned on the map in the location of the store associated with a product service being offered via the search result. In such instances the pins or icons are generally interactive such that when selected additional information about a relevant product service and or store is presented.

In accordance with an example embodiment a network based system can provide a platform to provide both a navigated shopping service and integrated payment capabilities. In certain examples the navigated shopping service and the payment service can be provided by separate systems. In some examples the user interacts with a network based system e.g. navigated shopping service and or payment service via a mobile device such as a smartphone a tablet computing device or an in vehicle intelligent navigation system among others. In an example the network based system can include a publication module capable of delivering location based offers to a user based on stored user profile data local merchant campaigns and current or future location data. In certain examples using the navigated shopping service can include configuring automatic payments via an integrated or partner payment processing system such as the PayPal payment system from eBay Inc. of San Jose Calif. .

In an example the merchant can operate computer systems such as an inventory system or a POS system . The network based publication system can interact with any of the systems used by merchant for operation of the merchant s retail or service business. In an example the network based publication system can work with both POS system and inventory system to obtain access to inventory available at individual retail locations run by the merchant . This inventory information can be used in both generating product or service listings and selecting and ordering search results served by the network based publication system .

With some embodiments the user may explicitly indicate or specify his current location for use in deriving a distance or travel time to stores offering products services. However with some embodiments location information of the user may be derived with a mobile computing device of the user. In some additional embodiments the user may explicitly indicate or specify his daily travelled commute route or some other route for use in determining a set of search results based on the distance or travel time to stores offering products services. However with some embodiments location information and particularly the commute or travel path of the user may be derived with a mobile computing device of the user.

For example the connection may be Code Division Multiple Access CDMA connection a Global System for Mobile communications GSM connection or other type of cellular connection. Such connection may implement any of a variety of types of data transfer technology such as Single Carrier Radio Transmission Technology 1 RTT Evolution Data Optimized EVDO technology General Packet Radio Service GPRS technology Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE technology or other data transfer technology e.g. fourth generation wireless 4G networks . When such technology is employed the communication network may include a cellular network that has a plurality of cell sites of overlapping geographic coverage interconnected by cellular telephone exchanges. These cellular telephone exchanges may be coupled to a network backbone for example the public switched telephone network PSTN a packet switched data network or other types of networks .

In another example the connection may be Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi IEEE 802.11x type connection a Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX connection or another type of wireless data connection. In such an embodiment the communication network may include one or more wireless access points coupled to a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet or other packet switched data network.

In yet another example the connection may be a wired connection for example an Ethernet link and the communication network may be a LAN a WAN the Internet or other packet switched data network. Accordingly a variety of different configurations are expressly contemplated.

A plurality of servers may be coupled via interfaces to the communication network for example via wired or wireless interfaces. These servers may be configured to provide various types of services to the mobile device . For example one or more servers may execute location based service LBS applications which interoperate with software executing on the mobile device to provide LBSs to a user. LBSs can use knowledge of the device s location and or the location of other devices and or retail stores etc. to provide location specific information recommendations notifications interactive capabilities and or other functionality to a user. With some embodiments the LBS operates in conjunction with the publication application and search engine in particular to provide search results that are arranged based on the distance or travel time between a mobile device or other computer device and a retail store. For example an LBS application can provide location data to a network based publication system which can then be used to arrange a set of search results based on distance and or travel time between two locations. Knowledge of the mobile device s location and or the location of other devices may be obtained through interoperation of the mobile device with a location determination application executing on one or more of the servers . Location information may also be provided by the mobile device without use of a location determination application such as application . In certain examples the mobile device may have some limited location determination capabilities that are augmented by the location determination application .

Additional detail regarding providing and receiving location based services can be found in U.S. Pat. No. 7 848 765 titled Location Based Services granted to Phillips et al. and assigned to Where Inc. of Boston Mass. which is hereby incorporated by reference.

An example geo location concept discussed within U.S. Pat. No. 7 848 765 is a geofence. A geofence can be defined as a perimeter or boundary around a physical location or mobile object e.g. a user . A geofence can be as simple as a radius around a physical location defining a circular region around the location. However a geofence can be any geometric shape or an arbitrary boundary drawn on a map. A geofence can be used to determine a geographical area of interest for the calculation of demographics advertising presenting search results or similar purposes. Geofences can be used in conjunction with identifying and presenting search results as described herein. For example a geofence can be used to assist in determining whether a user or mobile device associated with the user is within a geographic area of a particular merchant. If the user is within a geofence established by the merchant or the publication system the systems discussed herein can use that information to identify and present search results e.g. via a mobile device associated with the user .

An Application Programming Interface API server and a web server are coupled to and provide programmatic and web interfaces respectively to one or more application servers . The application servers host one or more publication modules in certain examples these can also include search engine modules commerce modules advertising modules and marketplace modules to name a few payment modules dynamic offer modules and optionally shopping modules . The application servers are in turn shown to be coupled to one or more database servers that facilitate access to one or more databases . In some examples the application server s can access the database s directly without the need for a database server s .

The publication modules may provide a number of publication and search functions and services to users that access the networked system . The payment modules may likewise provide a number of payment services and functions to users. The payment modules may allow users to accumulate value e.g. in a commercial currency such as the U.S. dollar or a proprietary currency such as points in accounts and then later to redeem the accumulated value for products e.g. goods or services that are advertised or made available via the various publication modules within retail locations or within external online retail venues. The payment modules may also be configured to present or facilitate a redemption of offers generated by the location aware dynamic offer modules to a user during checkout or prior to checkout while the user is still actively shopping . The offer modules may provide dynamic context sensitive offers e.g. coupons or immediate discount deals on targeted products or services to users of the networked system . The offer modules can be configured to use all of the various communication mechanisms provided by the networked system to present offer options to users. The offer options can be personalized based on current location time of day user profile data past purchase history or recent physical or online behaviors recorded by the network based system among other things e.g. context information . While the publication modules payment modules and offer modules are shown in to all form part of the networked system it will be appreciated that in alternative embodiments the payment modules may form part of a payment service that is separate and distinct from the networked system . Additionally in some examples the offer modules may be part of the payment service or may form an offer generation service separate and distinct from the networked system .

In certain examples the shopping modules may provide real time navigation route updates listing physical retail outlets that have items on a shopping list uploaded by a user of the networked system . The shopping modules can be configured to use all of the various communication mechanisms provided by the networked system to transmit information to a client machine such as client machine . The shopping modules can also present special offers available from retail merchants such as merchant along a user s current navigation route. The offers can be personalized based on current location time of day user profile data past purchase history or recent physical or online behaviors recorded by the network based system among other things.

Further while the system shown in employs a client server architecture the present invention is of course not limited to such an architecture and could equally well find application in a distributed or peer to peer architecture system for example. The various publication modules payment modules and offer modules could also be implemented as standalone systems or software programs which do not necessarily have networking capabilities.

The web client accesses the various publication modules payment modules and offer modules via the web interface supported by the web server . Similarly the programmatic client accesses the various services and functions provided by the publication modules payment modules and offer modules via the programmatic interface provided by the API server . The programmatic client may for example be a smartphone application that enables users to communicate search queries to the system while leveraging user profile data and current location information provided by the smartphone or accessed over the network .

The routing module can use information obtained from a user the location module and the merchant module to create a shopping route that allows a user to purchase items of interest along a navigation route. The routing module can process merchant location information inventory information use location information and navigation route information to develop shopping routes.

The user profile module can manage user preferences shopping lists and recent destinations among other things. In an example the user profile module can communicate with database and well as directly with a client machine such as client machine .

The merchant module can manage communications with merchants registered to offer goods or services such as merchant via the networked system . The merchant module can maintain location data and real time inventory for participating merchants.

The location module can monitor real time location information on clients such as by monitoring or receiving location information regarding client machines such as client machine . The location module can communicate real time location information to the routing module and the mapping engine as needed.

The mapping engine can work with the routing module location module user profile module and merchant module to map a location associated with the user desired route as well as merchant retail locations selling desired items.

Additional details regarding the functionality provided by the shopping modules are detailed below in reference to and .

As illustrated in the user interface includes a slider mechanism that serves as a filter allowing the user to filter the search results by travel time. In this example the user has positioned the slider mechanism so that only local search results that are within 60 min. of the user s current location are presented in the search results page.

After selecting or otherwise specifying a particular road or set of roads the user can specify a distance that he is willing to travel from the route to obtain the particular product or service being searched for. For instance as illustrated in the example user interface of the user can select one of the three icons or buttons labelled 15 Mins 10 Mins or 5 Mins to indicate the time the user is willing to travel away from the defined corridor or commute path to obtain a relevant product or service illustrating the 5 Mins selection and corresponding corridor and illustrating the 10 Mins selection and corresponding corridor . Of course a wide variety of other techniques could be used to establish the threshold distance or travel time. With some embodiments upon a threshold distance or travel time being selected the map is updated to indicate the general geographical area that is within proximity of the corridor or commute path. For example as illustrated in the corridor or commute path is shown to be a width consistent with the user s defined threshold travel time of 10 minutes.

Once the user has defined the corridor and the threshold distance or travel time the search engine will process the search query or filter previously identified search results to identify only those search results that are relevant because they are associated with a store that is located within the geographical area defined by the corridor and threshold distance or travel time . For example as illustrated in the example user interface of several icons or pins representing stores associated with a particular search result are shown to be positioned within the highlighted corridor. By selecting a particular pin or icon the user can learn more about the product service being offered at the particular store represented by the pin icon and or about the store itself such as the actual address of the store telephone number of the store store hours for the store and distance or travel time from the defined corridor.

In an example the method can begin at operation with a user creating a wish or shopping list via mobile device . In another example the user can create a shopping list via a web browser running on client machine . In certain examples the user may not create a wish list or shopping list in advance of a particular trip. In these examples the mobile device can be used to enter items on the fly e.g. during a trip at operation . In the example where the user has a shopping list created the method can continue at operation with the user selecting items from the shopping list via the mobile device .

At operation the method can continue with the user entering a destination into the mobile device in order to obtain a navigation route refer to for an example route display on a mobile device such as mobile device . The operations in method do not necessarily need to be performed in the illustrated order. For example the user can enter a destination at operation prior to selecting items from a shopping list at operation .

At operation the method can optionally continue with the navigation route being displayed for review on the mobile device . In certain examples the items selected at operation can also be displayed if available from merchants along the navigation route.

At operation the method can continue with the user selecting items for purchase during the planned trip via the mobile device . Item selection can occur via a touch screen interface on the mobile device if available with the user selecting items displayed on the map display. In another example the mobile device can display a list view of the items available at merchant locations within a pre defined distance from the navigation route. In an example the display of available items can change in real time based on actual location route taken and available inventory from merchant locations. For example if the user deviates from the planned navigation route the network based navigated shopping system can recalculate the available items from merchants within a certain distance of the new route or current location.

At operation the method can optionally continue with the mobile device presenting purchase options to the user. In an example the purchase options can include store merchant pickup typically the default home delivery or delay. The delay option allows the user to delay a decision regarding pickup and the network based navigated shopping system will request instructions regarding delivery at a later time. In an example if the user selects delay and then passes the merchant location on the navigation route the network based navigated shopping system can automatically revert to home delivery or can be instructed to locate a different merchant location along the route. In an example the purchase options can also include payment options. The payment options can include immediate payment including method of payment pay after delivery pay at pickup or some form of deferred payment among others. In certain examples integrated into mobile device B a vehicle registration number e.g. license plate can be used to validate payment upon merchant pickup. In other examples the mobile device can include biometric e.g. finger print or voice recognition authentication and authorization systems that can be used in conjunction with a navigated shopping service.

At operation the method can continue with the user authorizing payment for the selected items via the mobile device . At operation the method continues with the mobile device receiving a receipt for purchased items. In an example the receipt received by the mobile device can include pickup or delivery instructions for the selected items.

Finally at operation the method can conclude with the user receiving the purchased items from the merchant locations. In some examples the user can collect the purchased items from each of the merchant locations along the navigation route. In other examples the purchased items or some of the purchased items can be delivered to the user s home. Alternatively the purchased items can be delivered to the planned destination address. The mechanism of receipt of the purchased items may be dependent on the purchase option s selected in operation .

In an example the method can begin at operation with the networked system receiving a list of items for purchase via the navigated shopping service. At operation the method can continue with the networked system receiving a desired route from a client machine such as client machine . In an example instead of a route the networked system can receive a desired destination and the networked system can develop the route such as via the routing module .

At operation the method can continue with the networked system locating merchant locations along the desired navigation route that sell one or more of the items received for purchase via the navigated shopping service. In an example the networked system can also determine whether the merchant location has the desired item or items in inventory. In certain examples the networked system can communicate with a real time inventor service such as MILO from eBay Inc. of San Jose Calif. to determine available inventory.

At operation the method can continue with the networked system transmitting merchant and available inventor information to a client machine such as the client machine . In some examples the networked system also transmits route and map information to the client machine .

At operation the method can continue with the networked system receiving items selected for purchase via the navigated shopping service. At operation the method can continue with the networked system receiving payment authorization for the selected items. Additionally the networked system can also receive purchase options associated with each of the items selected for purchase not specifically illustrated within method . See discussion above in reference to for available purchase options that can be handled by the networked system .

At operation the method can continue with the networked system transmitting purchase requests to the merchants associated with the purchased items. In an example the networked system can also transmit delivery instructions associated with each of the purchased items. For example one of the purchased items may need to be delivered while a different purchased item may be prepared for pickup.

At operation the method can continue with the networked system receiving confirmations from the merchants regarding the purchased items. The confirmations can include an availability indictor and shipping information among other things. At operation the method can conclude with the networked system transmitting purchase confirmation information to the client machine . The confirmation sent to the client machine can include a receipt pickup instructions delivery confirmation and any other information needed for the user to receive the purchased items.

At operation the method can continue with the networked system determining or in some examples receiving a location associated with the client device . In some embodiments the location may be transmitted with the request to view listings. In some embodiments location related data may be transmitted from the client device and a location may be ascertained based on the location related data. For example a set of longitude and latitude coordinates may be transmitted and from the coordinates a location e.g. cross streets city state region may be determined. In other examples the networked system can operate to ascertain the location of the mobile device through other means such as communication with a network service provider that tracks location of mobile devices such as mobile device .

At operation the method can continue with the networked system using the location information to retrieve listings having locations identified as being with a predetermined geographic proximity to the client device . The listings may be stored with location information indicating where the item or service being offered is located.

At operation the method can continue with the networked system generating an interface that depicts retrieved listings relative to the location of the client device see discussion related to below for additional details . In some embodiments the interface may be a map with listings and the client device may be overlaid. In some embodiments the interface may be a web page containing a list of listings ordered according to one of a variety of attributes such as distance from the client device. At operation the method can conclude with the networked system transmitting the interface to the user.

In some embodiments any listings located within the radius of the current location of the user may be displayed. In some embodiments listings corresponding to saved searches categories or sub categories indicated as of interest to the user groups of interest to the user specific items of interest to the user and so forth may be presented. For example if a user is looking for a chainsaw the user may specify and save certain criteria such as one or more of a maximum price a brand a condition of the item a minimum reputation score of a seller of an item and a distance of the item from the location of the user within the networked system . When a user travels within a predefined proximity of a listing meeting the user s saved criteria the listing may be presented to the user as being a local listing. In an example the user interface on the mobile device can automatically change to displaying a detailed description of the local listing selected from listings based on proximity.

In some embodiments a subset of listings that are available for presentation may be presented to the user. By displaying only a subset of listings the display screen area of the client device may avoid becoming overcrowded. In other embodiments if the number of available listings meeting the criteria set forth for presentation to the user exceeds a predetermined threshold the map may be zoomed in to a finer granularity to display a more manageable number of listings .

In some embodiments icons representing certain listings on the map may be color coded enlarged or otherwise emphasized to highlight the listings to the user. Various factors may cause listings to be emphasized. For example if a listing corresponds to an event such as a garage sale or estate sale the listing may have a finite time period before expiration. The listings may be visually emphasized to notify a user that the listing corresponding to the event may be expiring soon. In other embodiments icons representing certain listings may be emphasized if the listings meet certain saved criteria. For example listings meeting the criteria of a user may be emphasized to alert a user that an item desired by the user is located nearby to the user.

In some embodiments a notification may be presented to a user that a local listing selected from listings is available. The notification may be a pop up a message a sound or other type of notification that alerts a user visually and or audibly as to the availability of a listing .

In some embodiments the identity of the user e.g. buyer interested in a listing may be revealed to a user e.g. seller associated with a listing. In some embodiments the identity may be revealed when the buyer attempts to communicate with the seller regarding a listing. In this respect given that a listing may facilitate a local in person transaction the seller may be able to gather information about the potential buyer before the buyer and seller meet in person.

Although example embodiments disclosed herein illustrate listings that fall within a circular radius of a user s location it is contemplated that listings within other predetermined geographic proximities to the user may be presented. For example listings that fall within a corridor of travel of a user may be presented such as illustrated in . The corridor of travel may be determined based on the location and direction of movement of a client device of a user. In some embodiments listings that are in the directional path of a user may be presented while in other embodiments listings that are both in front of and behind the directional path of the user s travel may be presented.

Example embodiments may be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. Example embodiments may be implemented using a computer program product for example a computer program tangibly embodied in an information carrier for example in a machine readable medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus for example a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers.

A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

In example embodiments operations may be performed by one or more programmable processors executing a computer program to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. Method operations can also be performed by and apparatus of example embodiments may be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. a FPGA or an ASIC .

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. In embodiments deploying a programmable computing system it will be appreciated that both hardware and software architectures merit consideration. Specifically it will be appreciated that the choice of whether to implement certain functionality in permanently configured hardware e.g. an ASIC in temporarily configured hardware e.g. a combination of software and a programmable processor or a combination of permanently and temporarily configured hardware may be a design choice. Below are set out hardware e.g. machine and software architectures that may be deployed in various example embodiments.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. user interface UI navigation device or computer mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of data structures and instructions e.g. software embodying or used by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory static memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more instructions or data structures. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the embodiments of the present invention or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures used by or associated with such instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable media include non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. A machine readable storage medium shall also include devices that may be interpreted as transitory such as register memory processor cache and RAM among others. The definitions provided herein of machine readable medium and machine readable storage medium are applicable even if the machine readable medium is further characterized as being non transitory. For example any addition of non transitory such as non transitory machine readable storage medium is intended to continue to encompass register memory processor cache and RAM among other memory devices.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium. The instructions may be transmitted using the network interface device and any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a LAN a WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks Plain Old Telephone POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. WiFi and WiMax networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible media to facilitate communication of such software.

Although the present inventive subject matter has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the inventive subject matter. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

The accompanying drawings that form a part hereof show by way of illustration and not of limitation specific embodiments in which the subject matter may be practiced. The embodiments illustrated are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed herein. Other embodiments may be used and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. This Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to herein individually and or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed. Thus although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any arrangement calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description.

All publications patents and patent documents referred to in this document are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety as though individually incorporated by reference. In the event of inconsistent usages between this document and those documents so incorporated by reference the usage in the incorporated reference s should be considered supplementary to that of this document for irreconcilable inconsistencies the usage in this document controls.

In this document the terms a or an are used as is common in patent documents to include one or more than one independent of any other instances or usages of at least one or one or more. In this document the term or is used to refer to a nonexclusive or such that A or B includes A but not B B but not A and A and B unless otherwise indicated. In the appended claims the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein. Also in the following claims the terms including and comprising are open ended that is a system device article or process that includes elements in addition to those listed after such a term in a claim are still deemed to fall within the scope of that claim. Moreover in the following claims the terms first second and third and so forth are used merely as labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b requiring an abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

