---

title: System for encoding customer data
abstract: A rules engine stores customer data, a first rule comprising a first plurality of conditions, and a second rule comprising a second plurality of conditions, wherein the customer data is associated with a particular customer. The rules engine transforms a first portion of the customer data into a first code segment by applying the first rule and by satisfying a condition of the first plurality of conditions of the first rule. It also transforms a second portion of the customer data into a second code segment by applying the second rule and by satisfying a condition of the second plurality of conditions of the second rule. The rules engine further combines at least the first code segment and the second code segment to form a customer profile code. An interface engine communicatively coupled to the rules engine communicates the customer profile code to a third party.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09552586&OS=09552586&RS=09552586
owner: Bank of America Corporation
number: 09552586
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150910
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 518 076 filed Oct. 20 2014 and entitled SYSTEM FOR ENCODING CUSTOMER DATA. 

This invention relates generally to analyzing and communicating data and more particularly to encoding customer data.

Enterprises assemble vast amounts of customer data. In conventional systems enterprises communicate uncoded customer data in accordance with a customer identifier such as a customer account number. This is problematic because uncoded data is susceptible to security breaches and uncoded data uses a substantial amount of resources such as bandwidth and memory.

According to embodiments of the present disclosure disadvantages and problems associated with communicating customer data may be reduced or eliminated.

In accordance with a particular embodiment of the present disclosure a rules engine stores a first rule a second rule and customer data wherein the customer data is associated with a particular customer. The rules engine transforms a portion of the customer data into a first code segment by applying a first rule and transforms a portion of the customer data into a second code segment by applying a second rule. In addition the rules engine combines at least the first code segment and the second code segment to form a customer profile code. The customer profile code is associated with a customer identifier. A decision engine communicatively coupled to the rules engine stores third party data wherein the third party data is associated with a request for customer information. The decision engine determines whether the customer identifier of the customer profile code matches the third party data and an interface engine communicatively coupled to the decision engine communicates the customer profile code to a third party if the customer identifier of the customer profile code and the third party data match.

Certain embodiments of the present disclosure may provide one or more technical advantages. A technical advantage of one embodiment includes saving resources such as bandwidth and memory by consolidating large amounts of customer data within an enterprise into a centralized unit and transforming that data on a customer by customer basis into a unique customer profile code. As another example a technical advantage of one embodiment includes mitigating data breaches by communicating secured customer data to third parties via a customer profile code. And a further technical advantage of an embodiment includes conveniently efficiently and securely transferring customer data to third parties by sharing an enterprise s encoded customer profile code with a third party via a secure application programming interface API . As a final example a technical advantage of one embodiment includes providing greater efficiencies for computer resources and network usage.

Other technical advantages of the present disclosure will be readily apparent to one skilled in the art from the following figures descriptions and claims. Moreover while specific advantages have been enumerated above various embodiments may include all some or none of the enumerated advantages.

Embodiments of the present invention and its advantages are best understood by referring to like numerals being used for like and corresponding parts of the various drawings.

Enterprises are organizations and typically include business units divisions or lines of businesses that handle the trade of various goods and services within the enterprise. Services may include but are not limited to transforming customer data into customer profile codes so that it can be efficiently and securely shared with third parties.

To facilitate providing encoded customer data enterprises may communicate encoded customer profile codes to third parties via networks. Typically enterprises store customer data according to a customer identifier such as a customer account number. The teachings of this disclosure recognize that it would be desirable to provide a rules engine that transforms the customer data into code segments and combines the code segments to form a customer profile code thus creating a snapshot of the customer data. The teachings of this disclosure also recognize that it would be desirable to provide a decision engine that communicates a customer profile code to a third party if the customer identifier associated with the customer profile code matches third party data. Further the teachings of this disclosure recognize that when a customer identifier of a customer profile code matches third party data it would be desirable to communicate the rules and the code segments to a third party to enable the third party to decode the customer profile code.

As such the teachings of this disclosure provide for greater efficiencies in computer resources and network usage. For example by transforming vast amounts of customer data into compressed customer profile codes less resources such as bandwidth and memory are required to store the customer data and to communicate the customer data both internally within the enterprise and externally to third parties. Further the teachings of this disclosure provide for greater security of an enterprise s customer data. For instance by encoding the customer data the enterprise reduces the risk of third parties gaining access to its customer data without the enterprise s consent.

In the illustrated embodiment of rules engine stores customer data first rule and second rule . Customer data represents the data of a particular customer wherein n represents any suitable number. Customer data may include descriptive data such as for example customer s age gender ethnicity spoken languages employment status and income. Further customer data may include behavioral data or general patterns exhibited by customer when using certain products or services. For example behavioral data may include customer s purchasing browsing and registering activities bank account activities loan and mortgage commitments and investment information. Behavioral data may also include for instance the frequency in which customer visits an institution or call center customer s inquiries at an institution or call center and customer s recorded conversations with an associate of an enterprise. Customer data is not limited to descriptive and behavioral data and can include any data associated with customer .

In addition customer data may comprise one or more customer identifiers . Customer identifier is any identifier associated with customer that differentiates customer from other customers of an enterprise. For example customer identifier may be a phone number an email address or an account number of customer . In some embodiments customer identifier may include customer s physical address or customer s driver s license number. Customer identifier can be any data suitable to identify customer .

Rules of rules engine include any parameters for classifying customer data . For example rules may facilitate classification of customer data in accordance with customer s income transactional history credit rating or date of birth. Rules may be created or managed by devices persons or any other suitable source. For example associates may write specific rules for third party . As another example software may be used to evolve rules over time based on patterns shown by system .

Rules engine of system also includes first rule as shown in of the illustrated embodiment. First rule may include one or more conditions wherein n represents any suitable number. First rule may also include one or more code segments wherein n represents any suitable number. In some embodiments conditions are associated with code segments . For example condition may be associated with code segment . In the illustrated embodiment of conditions and are associated with income brackets. Customer data may represent customer s income. As such if customer income data falls below 25 000 annually then rules engine transforms into code segment which is represented by X1 in . Similarly if customer income data falls at or between 25 000 and 50 000 annually then rules engine transforms customer income data into code segment represented by X2 . And if customer income data is above 50 000 annually then rules engine transforms customer income data into code segment represented by X3 . For example if customer income data is 15 000 annually then rules engine transforms customer income data into code segment X1 as shown in the illustrated embodiment of .

Though only one condition is satisfied in the illustrated embodiment of more than one condition may be satisfied in other embodiments or no condition may be satisfied depending on the parameters of customer data . Further in some embodiments first rule includes less than three conditions. Alternatively first rule may include more than three conditions for example ten conditions. Further conditions and may be associated with more than one type of customer data. For example condition may be associated with customer s income whereas conditions and are associated with customer s quantity of purchases within a given period of time.

In some embodiments rules engine of system further comprises second rule . Second rule may include one or more conditions wherein n represents any suitable number. Second rule may also include one or more code segments wherein n represents any suitable number. In some embodiments conditions are associated with code segments . For example condition may be associated with code segment . In the illustrated embodiment of conditions and are associated with birth year brackets. Customer data may represent customer s birth year. As such if birth year customer data falls at or between the years 1940 and 1959 then rules engine transforms customer data into code segment represented by Y1 . Similarly if birth year customer data falls at or between the years 1960 and 1979 then rules engine transforms customer data into code segment represented by Y2 . And if birth year customer data falls at or between the years 1980 and 1999 then the rules engine transforms customer data into code segment represented by Y3 . For example if birth year customer data is the year 1967 then rules engine transforms customer birth year data into code segment Y2 as shown in the illustrated embodiment of .

While first rule includes three conditions and and second rule includes three conditions and in the illustrated embodiment of rules engine of system may include more or less than two rules and each rule may include more or less than three conditions. For example rules engine may comprise 1 000 rules wherein each rule includes 100 conditions. As another example rules engine may comprise a first rule with five conditions a second rule with 100 conditions and a third rule with one condition. Conditions and may be associated with more than one type of customer data . For example condition may be associated with customer s birth year condition may be associated with customer s purchases and condition may be associated with customer s income. Further while rules and in the illustrated embodiment include conditions rules may instead or in addition include any suitable information for use in the operation of rules engine .

In some embodiments rules engine of system transforms at least a portion of customer data into a customer profile code based on at least a combination of code segments and . For example as shown in the illustrated embodiment of rules engine concatenates code segment represented by X1 and code segment represented by Y2 to generate customer profile code represented by X1Y2 . In some instances rules engine may concatenate more than two code segments to generate customer profile code for example X1Y2Z3 . Rules engine may transform customer data in any manner suitable for compressing or securing customer data . For example transforming customer data may include encoding encrypting or hashing customer data 

While rules engine in the illustrated embodiment of concatenates code segments and to form customer profile code rules engine may transform code segments and in any manner suitable for coding data. For instance code segments X1 and Y2 may jointly be represented by alphanumeric characters A1 by the number 10 or by a symbol such as a triangle. Further customer profile code may utilize any coding system suitable to protect against the unauthorized use of customer s information. For example customer profile code may be an alphanumeric code as shown in the illustrated embodiment of . As another example customer profile code may be a binary code. Rules engine may generate customer profile codes for multiple customers 

Some customer profile codes may be more sophisticated than other customer profile codes . For instance a customer with a large amount of customer data may have a more sophisticated customer profile code than a customer with a less amount of customer data . Further in some embodiments customer profile code is associated with customer identifier . Customer identifier may be located within customer data and can be any data that differentiates customer from other customers of enterprise . For example customer identifier may be customer s social security number customer s bank account number or customer s email address.

Rules engine of system may apply rules to customer data on a periodic or continuous basis to generate customer profile code . For example rules engine may generate customer profile code periodically by applying rules to customer data once every minute once a week or three times a week. As another example rules engine may apply rules to customer data in real time so that the customer profile code is always based on the most recent customer data . In some embodiments rules engine may only apply certain rules to the exclusion of others to generate customer profile code . Similarly rules engine may only apply certain conditions to the exclusion of others to generate customer profile code .

System as shown in the illustrated embodiment of also includes decision engine . Decision engine is communicatively coupled to rules engine and is operable to store third party data associated with a request for customer information. Third party data is information that can be used to identify customer of enterprise such as an email address a telephone number a social security number or a bank account number. Decision engine may also store customer data customer identifiers or a portion thereof.

Decision engine is further operable to determine whether customer identifier of customer profile code matches third party data . For example if customer identifier is represented by phone number 555 0102 and third party data is represented by phone number 555 0102 then decision engine verifies a match between customer identifier and third party data . In some embodiments decision engine may determine whether third party data matches more than one customer identifier . For instance system may require that two pieces of third party data for example and match two customer identifiers for example and

System of the illustrated embodiment of also includes an interface engine . Interface engine is communicatively coupled to decision engine and operable to communicate customer profile code to third party if customer identifier of customer profile code matches third party data . Third party can be any party external to enterprise that can benefit from receiving customer information that has been transformed into code segments based on conditions such as income and birth year. Examples of third parties include e commerce sites social media sites or financial sites such as financial planning websites. In addition third party may be a realty site or an aggregator.

Interface engine of system may be further operable to communicate rules conditions and and code segments and to third party to facilitate decoding of customer profile code . For example if customer identifier of customer profile code matches third party data interface engine may communicate first rule and second rule to third party . Further if customer identifier of customer profile code matches third party data interface engine may communicate the code segments associated with the satisfied conditions to third party to enable third party to decode customer profile code . As such in accordance with the illustrated embodiment of third party can utilize code segment X1 to associate third party data with an income less than 25 000 annually. Similarly third party can utilize code segment Y2 to associate third party data with a date of birth between the years 1960 and 1979.

Interface engine of system may operate as an application programming interface API . As such interface engine may communicate customer profile code to third party by granting third party access to customer profile code via the API. In addition interface engine may communicate rules conditions and and code segments and to third party by granting third party access to the API. By utilizing a secure API an enterprise can efficiently and conveniently share customer profile codes and other information operable to decode the customer profile codes with third parties.

Transforming customer data into customer profile codes leads to greater efficiencies of system . Because customer profile codes represent compressed versions of customer data they can be stored using less memory and communicated using less bandwidth. Further customer profile codes are less susceptible to breach since they are encoded. And because customer profile codes represent satisfied conditions rather than specific customer data customer data of enterprise remains protected.

Modifications additions or omissions may be made to system without departing from the scope of the invention. For example system may include any number of rules engines decision engines and interface engines . As another example decision module may request third party data from an external module. Furthermore the components of system may be integrated or separated. For example rules engine and decision engine may be incorporated into a single component. In another example decision engine and interface engine may be incorporated into a single component.

In the illustrated embodiment of assembly module comprises interface processor and memory . Memory of assembly module includes customer data sources wherein n represents any suitable number. Customer data sources may be associated with customer and may include customer data such as demographic and behavioral data of customer .

Customer data sources of assembly module represent any sources of information that may be used by assembly module and or components of enterprise . Customer data sources may include a device such as a database a personal computer a workstation a laptop a wireless or cellular telephone an electronic notebook a personal digital assistant or any other device capable of receiving processing storing and or communicating information a person such as a person who has knowledge of an entity and who provides such knowledge for communication to assembly module any other suitable source of information or any combination of the preceding. In certain embodiments assembly module may receive information from customer data sources to communicate to rules engine and decision engine . Customer data sources may be located in enterprise or any other location that allows for customer data sources to communicate via network .

Assembly module may include a network service any suitable remote service a mainframe a host computer a workstation a web server a personal computer a file server or any other suitable device operable to communicate with enterprise . In some embodiments assembly module may execute any suitable operating system such as IBM s zSeries Operating System z OS MS DOS PC DOS MAC OS WINDOWS UNIX OpenVMS or any other appropriate operating systems including future operating systems. The functions of assembly module may be performed by any suitable combination of one or more servers or other components at one or more locations. In the embodiment where the modules are servers the servers may be public or private servers and each server may be a virtual or physical server. The server may include one or more servers at the same or at remote locations. Also assembly module may include any suitable component that functions as a server.

System of the illustrated embodiment of also includes rules engine which is communicatively coupled to assembly module . Rules engine may include interface processor and memory . In the illustrated embodiment memory includes customer data rules and customer profile codes . System of the illustrated embodiment of further includes decision engine . Decision engine is communicatively coupled to rules engine and may comprise interface processor and memory . In the illustrated embodiment memory includes customer data and third party data . In addition system comprises external module as shown in the illustrated embodiment of . External module includes third party data 

Network facilitates communications between enterprise assembly module rules engine decision engine and external module . This disclosure contemplates any suitable network operable to facilitate communication between the components of system . Network may include any interconnecting system capable of transmitting audio video signals data messages or any combination of the preceding. Network may include all or a portion of a public switched telephone network PSTN a public or private data network a local area network LAN a metropolitan area network MAN a wide area network WAN a local regional or global communication or computer network such as the Internet a wireline or wireless network an enterprise intranet or any other suitable communication link including combinations thereof operable to facilitate communication between the components. This disclosure contemplates end networks having one or more of the described properties of network .

System includes one or more interfaces. For example the illustrated embodiment of includes interface for assembly module interface for rules engine and interface for decision engine . Interfaces and represent any suitable device operable to receive information from network transmit information through network perform suitable processing of the information communicate to other devices or any combination of the preceding. For example interface of assembly module transmits customer data to rules engine and interface of rules engine receives customer data from interface . As another example interface of decision engine may receive third party data from external module and may communicate customer profile code to external module if customer identifier matches third party data . Interfaces and represent any port or connection real or virtual including any suitable hardware and or software including protocol conversion and data processing capabilities to communicate through a LAN WAN or other communication system that allows enterprise to exchange information between assembly module rules engine decision engine external module network and other components of system .

In addition system includes one or more processors. For example the illustrated embodiment of includes processor for assembly module processor for rules engine and processor for decision engine . Processors and control the operation and administration of enterprise by processing information received from interfaces and . As such processors and are communicatively coupled to interfaces respectively. Processors and include any hardware and or software that operates to control and process information. For example processor utilizes rules to control the operation of rules engine . Processor or may be a programmable logic device a microcontroller a microprocessor any suitable processing device or any suitable combination of the preceding.

System further includes one or more memories. For example the illustrated embodiment of includes memory for assembly module memory for rules engine and memory for decision engine . Memory or may represent a database that stores either permanently or temporarily customer data or rules . Memory or includes any one or a combination of volatile or non volatile local or remote devices suitable for storing information. For example memory or may include Random Access Memory RAM Read only Memory ROM magnetic storage devices optical storage devices or any other suitable information storage device or a combination of these devices. Memory or may include any suitable information for use in the operation of enterprise . Additionally memory or may be a component external to enterprise and may be situated in any location suitable for memory to communicate to the other modules of system . Assembly module rules engine and decision engine can each contain more than one memory component.

Memory or may include one or more rules . Rules generally refer to logic rules algorithms code tables and or other suitable instructions embodied in a computer readable storage medium for performing the described functions and operations of system . For example rules may facilitate the transformation of a portion of customer data into code segments 

System may include one or more computers. A computer may be any device that interacts with system . A computer may use a processor and a memory to execute an application in order to perform any of the functions described herein. A computer may be a personal computer a workstation a laptop a wireless or cellular telephone an electronic notebook a personal digital assistant a tablet or any other device wireless wireline or otherwise capable of receiving processing storing and or communicating information with other components of system . A computer may also include a user interface such as a display a touchscreen a microphone keypad or other appropriate terminal equipment usable by a user.

A component of system may include an interface logic memory and or other suitable element. An interface receives input sends output processes the input and or output and or performs other suitable operations. An interface may comprise hardware and or software. Logic performs the operations of the component. For example logic executes instructions to generate output from input. Logic may include hardware software and or other logic. Logic may be encoded in one or more non transitory tangible media such as a computer readable storage medium or any other suitable tangible medium and may perform operations when executed by a computer. Certain logic such as a processor may manage the operation of a component. Examples of a processor include one or more computers one or more microprocessors one or more applications and or other logic.

Modifications additions or omissions may be made to system without departing from the scope of the invention. For example system may include any number of assembly modules rules engines decision engines and external modules . As another example decision module may communicate a request for third party data from external module . Furthermore the components of system may be integrated or separated. For example assembly module and rules engine may be incorporated into a single component. In another example rules engine and decision engine may be incorporated into a single component.

At step interface of decision engine receives third party data associated with a request for customer information from external module . Third party data is information that can be used to identify a customer such as an address telephone number social security number or bank account number. Decision engine determines whether customer identifier matches third party data at step .

If customer identifier matches third party data the method proceeds to step . At step interface of decision engine communicates customer profile code to third party at a communication time period. For example if customer identifier of customer is represented as account number ABCXYZ and third party data is represented as account number ABCXYZ then customer identifier matches third party data and interface communicates customer s profile code to third party . Interface of decision engine may communicate a plurality of customer profile codes simultaneously or decision engine may transmit each customer profile code separately to third party . In certain embodiments interface of decision engine may communicate updated customer profile codes to third party . In some instances decision engine may communicate customer profile codes via an API. The communication time period indicates a time or periodicity to communicate the data. The communication time period can be a fixed time period a variable time period a time period that occurs when network resource usage is at a low period or any indication of when interface of decision engine should communicate customer profile code .

If decision engine determines customer identifier does not match third party data at step then decision engine does not communicate customer profile code to third party . In some embodiments processor of decision engine generates a data report. For example the data report may state that the third party data did not match customer identifiers . In some embodiments interface of decision engine may communicate the data report to third party . The data report may include information such as the number of requests for customer information communicated to decision engine within a period of time the number of requests processed by decision engine within a period of time or the number of matches or non matches generated by decision engine .

Modifications additions or omissions may be made to the method depicted in . The method may include more fewer or other steps. For example if customer identifier matches third party data interface of decision engine may communicate one or more rules to third party . As another example if customer identifier matches third party data interface of decision engine may communicate code segments to third party to facilitate decoding of customer profile code . As yet another example steps may be performed in parallel or in any suitable order. Further any suitable component of system may perform one or more steps of the method.

Although the present invention has been described with several embodiments a myriad of changes variations alterations transformations and modifications may be suggested to one skilled in the art and it is intended that the present invention encompass such changes variations alterations transformations and modifications as fall within the scope of the appended claims.

