---

title: Social network system
abstract: The present invention includes systems and methods for sending social media messages without the need for keyboard inputs. A microphone captures live audio speech data and transmits the audio data to a processing unit. The processing unit converts the audio to speech data. The processing unit also removes censored words, emphasizes key words, and edits that data to include product and promotional messages where appropriate. The processing unit then uses code words contained in the speech data to send the speech data to the appropriate social media outlets for output.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09343066&OS=09343066&RS=09343066
owner: PROSPORTS TECHNOLOGIES, LLC
number: 09343066
owner_city: Miami
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150630
---
This application claims the priority benefit of U.S. provisional application No. 62 023 355 filed on Jul. 11 2014 and titled Active Social Network Football Helmet the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention is generally related web publishing. More specifically the present invention is related to modifying received audio speech data for automatic text publication on social media.

Players teams and businesses currently use social media to increase their reach and communicate with fans to promote themselves their views products and brands. Social media messages are commonly integrated into television broadcasts through commentary or displayed alongside live broadcasts in a portion of the display.

It is difficult however for athletes to send messages through social media during the course of a game because athletes do not have free use of their hands. An athlete cannot send for example a live comment regarding an event during the game because the athlete cannot leave the game to send a message through a phone. This limitation makes it difficult for players teams and businesses to fully leverage social media.

There is a need in the art for improved systems and methods for delivering real time game commentary from players through social media.

One exemplary method for sending social media messages describes receiving audio speech data through one or more microphones. The method also describes processing the audio speech data at a processing unit. The processing unit converts the audio speech data to text speech data. The method also describes comparing the text speech data to one or more databases. The one or more databases include one or more code words. The method also describes sending the processed speech data for output through social media. The processing unit routes text speech data for output through social media according to code words included in the text speech data.

One exemplary system for sending social media messages provides one or more microphones a processing unit and a processor. The one or more microphones receive audio speech data through one or more microphones. The processing unit processes the audio speech data and compares the text speech data to one or more databases. The processing unit converts the audio speech data to text speech data. The one or more databases include one or more code words. Execution of instructions stored in the memory by the processor performs a set of operations. The operations include sending the processed speech data for output through a social media interface. The processing unit routes text speech data for output through the social media interface according to code words included in the text speech data.

One exemplary non transitory computer readable storage medium is also described the non transitory computer readable storage medium having embodied thereon a program executable by a processor to perform an exemplary method for sending social media messages. The exemplary program method describes receiving audio speech data. The program method also describes processing the audio speech data. The program method also describes converting the audio speech data to text speech data. The program method also describes comparing the text speech data to one or more databases. The one or more databases include one or more code words. The program method also describes sending the processed speech data for output through social media. The processing unit routes text speech data for output through social media according to code words included in the text speech data.

The present invention includes systems and methods for sending social media messages without the need for keyboard inputs. A microphone captures live audio speech data and transmits the audio data to a processing unit. The processing unit converts the audio to speech data. The processing unit also removes censored words emphasizes key words and edits that data to include product and promotional messages where appropriate. The processing unit then uses code words contained in the speech data to send the speech data to the appropriate social media outlets for output.

Social messages can be sent from entertainment or cultural events that are presented at a theatre gymnasium stadium or other facility to a group of people. Such events include a wide variety of sporting events such as football American and Global baseball basketball soccer ice hockey lacrosse rugby cricket tennis track and field golf cycling motor sports such as automobile or motorcycle racing horse racing Olympic games and the like cultural events such as concerts music festivals plays the opera and the like religious events and more permanent exhibitions such as museum historic home and the like.

The microphones can be acoustic to electric transducers for converting audio data into an electrical signal. The microphones can be used with a wireless transmitter. The microphones can be wearable. The radio transmitter is in communication with the microphone . The wearable items can be sporting equipment used in the course of playing a sport including protective equipment or non protective equipment. The wearable items can include helmets protective padding uniforms jerseys footwear eyewear e.g. glasses face shields or balls e.g. football baseball soccer ball .

The processing unit is in communication with the radio transmitter through the antenna wherein the radio transmitter produces a radio transmission for delivery to the processing unit . The processing unit can be a personal computer a desktop computer or a server. The radio transmission is a radio frequency signal carrying audio data. The radio transmitter converts an electrical signal from the microphone into a radio signal for transmission to the antenna . The radio transmitter can be a one way radio transmitter. The radio transmitters can include at least one power source a radio oscillator a signal modulator and a radio frequency amplifier. The radio transmitter can be wireless or wearable. The antenna can convert an electrical signal into radio waves for transmitting a radio frequency audio signal. The processing unit is in communication with the server through the Internet . The system can automatically publish digital speech data to a website through the Internet . The server is connected to the Internet and hosts one or more remotely accessible web pages. The server can publish content received via the Internet to social media websites such as Twitter or Facebook. The digital speech data can be representative of verbal commentary during a sporting event.

The radio receiver sends a digital audio signal to the text processing application . The analog to digital converter converts analog radio signal to digital audio signal. The radio receiver receives radio transmissions through one or more channels . The radio receiver is a radio frequency receiver for receiving the radio transmission from the radio transmitter . The one or more channels are data parameters defining the channel through which the radio receiver receives the radio transmission . The data parameters control or change the frequency monitored by the radio receiver . The one or more channels are identified with a speaker such as an athlete.

The speech recognition unit includes a software program for translating spoken words to text. The speech recognition unit may be an automatic speech recognition program. The speech recognition unit converts the digital audio signal into text. The player identification detection unit is a software program for determining the identity of a sports player by the channel associated to each of the one or more athletes. The catchword detection unit is a software program for recognizing code words in the speech recognition unit output wherein code words include catchwords and product words. The catchword detection unit modifies the speech recognition unit output.

The player data database the catchword database and the product insert database may be relational databases such as Microsoft Access or Microsoft SQL Server or flat files such as comma separated value text files where the flat files are compatible with applications such as Microsoft Office applications. The player data database is a database of player speech data produced by the text processing application . The player data database is a relational database with one or more data tables. Each of the one or more player data database data tables contains the speech recognition unit output and metadata associated with the speech recognition unit output. The catchword database is a database of catchwords provided to the catchword detection unit . Each of the one or more catchword database data tables contains catchwords used to modify the text data. The product insert database is a database of product words and sponsored words wherein the sponsored words are associated with product words and the sponsored words are used to replace associated product words in the text data.

The processing unit uses the catchword database to modify text speech data. The catchword database table includes product words words key words and code words . The processing unit modifies the text speech data to remove words listed in the database. words include obscene language and content prohibited by government agencies such as the Federal Communications Commission . The processing unit modifies the text speech data to replace product words with corresponding sponsored words listed in the product insert table . Product words include specific products words associated with specific brands or words associated with specific products. The processing unit further modifies the text speech data to emphasize key words listed in the database. Key words include interjections and words that convey excitement. The processing unit routes modified speech data for output through social media according to code words listed in the database. Code words include words associated with posting messages to particular social media forums as well as words indicating the beginning and end of messages.

The processing unit uses the product insert database to modify text speech data. The product insert database table includes product words and sponsor words . The processing unit modifies the text speech data to replace product words listed in the database with sponsored words listed in the database. Product words include specific products words associated with specific brands or words associated with specific products. Sponsored words include words associated with advertising endorsements or promotional deals as well as words for specific brands or marketing campaigns.

At block the catchword detection unit determines whether the text data contains censored words listed in the catchword database table . The catchword detection unit can compare each word in the record with each censored word listed in the catchword database table .

If the text data does not contain censored words the method continues to block . If the text data contains censored words listed in the catchword database table the method continues to block . At block censored words contained in the text data are replaced with redacted text or a placeholder. The method then continues to block .

At block the catchword detection unit determines whether the text data contains product words listed in the catchword database table . The catchword detection unit can compare each word in the record with each product word listed in the catchword database table .

If the text data does not contain product words the method continues to block . If the text data contains product words listed in the catchword database table the method continues to block . At block product words contained in the text data are replaced with sponsored words listed in the product insert table . The method then continues to block .

At block the catchword detection unit determines whether the text data contains key words listed in the catchword database table . The catchword detection unit can compare each word in the record with each key word listed in the catchword database table .

If the text data does not contain key words the method continues to block . If the text data contains key words listed in the catchword database table the method continues to block . At block key words contained in the text data are emphasized in the text data. The text processing application may insert markup language formatting commands before and after each key word to emphasize the key word. The method then continues to block .

At block the processing unit uploads the text data to the internet server via the Internet . The processing unit can upload the text data using a content submission application programming interface API provided by an operator of the internet server to allow for direct publishing to a social media website. At block the catchword detection unit increments to the next record in the player database table and repeats the method beginning again at block .

While various embodiments have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only and not limitation. The present descriptions are not intended to limit the scope of the presently claimed invention or to limit the scope of embodiments of the presently claimed invention. The present descriptions are intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents consistent with the spirit and scope of the disclosure.

