---

title: Geo-fenced event alerts
abstract: A method, computer program product, and computer system is provided. A processor identifies an event based, at least in part, on a first news article. A processor determines a first area of impact for the event based, at least in part, on the first news article. Responsive to a determination that a current location of a first user is within the first area of impact, a processor sends a first message to the first user based, at least in part, on the first news article.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09609479&OS=09609479&RS=09609479
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09609479
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151023
---
The present invention relates generally to the field of emergency warning systems and more particularly to generating a geo fences for an event.

An emergency warning system provides warnings of emergencies on a local regional or national basis. Warnings provide notice to members of the public of an impending emergency. These warnings may be necessary for a number of reasons including weather emergencies e.g. tornadoes hurricanes and ice storms geological disasters e.g. earthquakes landslides volcanic eruptions and tsunamis or any event that may impact public safety. Emergency warning systems provide notice of events to the public so that they respond to or prepare for the emergency. However emergency warning systems do not provide any manner of a targeted distribution. All members of an emergency warning system will receive warnings regardless of the impact the event causing the warning may have.

A geo fence is a virtual perimeter corresponding to a real world geographic area. The process of creating a geo fence is called geo fencing. Geo fences are used in location based services when determining if a user has entered an area. A mobile device is carried by the user with a location tracking system such as a global positioning system GPS . Typically when the user enters a geo fenced area an action is performed by the mobile device carried by the user. The mobile device may send information indicating the user s entering of the area to another device or the mobile device may alert the user based on the entering of the geo fenced area.

Viewed from a first aspect the present invention provides a method to generate alerts based on geo fenced areas. A processor identifies an event based at least in part on a first news article. A processor determines a first area of impact for the event based at least in part on the first news article. Responsive to a determination that a current location of a first user is within the first area of impact a processor sends a first message to the first user based at least in part on the first news article. Advantageously this invention provides alerts to users affected by an event while excluding those who are not. In yet a further optional aspect a processor identifies an update to the event based at least in part on a second news article. A processor determines a second area of impact for the event based at least in part on the second news article. Advantageously some embodiments of this invention provide information regarding multiple events and determining an area each event will impact. As such a user is kept up to date on the ongoing events in an area. In yet a further optional aspect in response to a determination that a current location of a second user is within the second area of impact a processor sends a second message to the second user based at least in part on the second news article. Advantageously some embodiments of this invention provide alerts to users of a variety of events. As such relevant news can be provided to the user to inform the user of the events. In yet a further optional aspect of the invention a processor sends alerts wherein the current location of the second user is outside the first area of impact. Advantageously some embodiments of this invention provide alerts to users that are currently outside an area of impact. As such the user can receive alerts for areas that they may potentially be at in the future. In yet a further optional aspect of the invention in response to a determination that a home location of a second user is within the first area of impact a processor sends a second message to the second user based at least in part on the first news article wherein the current location of the second user is outside the first area of impact. Advantageously some embodiments of this invention provide alerts to users who are away from home but an event is currently affecting the area associated with the user s home location. As such the user is kept up to date regarding events that may impact the user s home location. In yet a further optional aspect a processor determines the home location based on a social network profile of the user. Advantageously some embodiments of this invention provide a mechanism to determine a user s home location by analyzing a social network profile of the user for information. As such a home location can be determined without requiring direct input by a user. Embodiments of the present invention may not possess all the potential advantages discussed herein and the potential advantages are not necessarily required of all embodiments.

Viewed from a further aspect the present invention provides a computer program product to generate alerts based on geo fenced areas. A processor identifies an event based at least in part on a first news article. A processor determines a first area of impact for the event based at least in part on the first news article. Responsive to a determination that a current location of a first user is within the first area of impact a processor sends a first message to the first user based at least in part on the first news article. Advantageously this invention provides alerts to users affected by an event while excluding those who are not. In yet a further optional aspect a processor identifies an update to the event based at least in part on a second news article. A processor determines a second area of impact for the event based at least in part on the second news article. Advantageously some embodiments of this invention provide information regarding multiple events and determining an area each event will impact. As such a user is kept up to date on the ongoing events in an area. In yet a further optional aspect in response to a determination that a current location of a second user is within the second area of impact a processor sends a second message to the second user based at least in part on the second news article. Advantageously some embodiments of this invention provide alerts to users of a variety of events. As such relevant news can be provided to the user to inform the user of the events. In yet a further optional aspect of the invention a processor sends alerts wherein the current location of the second user is outside the first area of impact. Advantageously some embodiments of this invention provide alerts to users that are currently outside an area of impact. As such the user can receive alerts for areas that they may potentially be at in the future. In yet a further optional aspect of the invention in response to a determination that a home location of a second user is within the first area of impact a processor sends a second message to the second user based at least in part on the first news article wherein the current location of the second user is outside the first area of impact. Advantageously some embodiments of this invention provide alerts to users who are away from home but an event is currently affecting the area associated with the user s home location. As such the user is kept up to date regarding events that may impact the user s home location. In yet a further optional aspect a processor determines the home location based on a social network profile of the user. Advantageously some embodiments of this invention provide a mechanism to determine a user s home location by analyzing a social network profile of the user for information. As such a home location can be determined without requiring direct input by a user. Embodiments of the present invention may not possess all the potential advantages discussed herein and the potential advantages are not necessarily required of all embodiments.

Viewed from a further aspect the present invention provides a computer system to generate alerts based on geo fenced areas. A processor identifies an event based at least in part on a first news article. A processor determines a first area of impact for the event based at least in part on the first news article. Responsive to a determination that a current location of a first user is within the first area of impact a processor sends a first message to the first user based at least in part on the first news article. Advantageously this invention provides alerts to users affected by an event while excluding those who are not. In yet a further optional aspect a processor identifies an update to the event based at least in part on a second news article. A processor determines a second area of impact for the event based at least in part on the second news article. Advantageously some embodiments of this invention provide information regarding multiple events and determining an area each event will impact. As such a user is kept up to date on the ongoing events in an area. In yet a further optional aspect in response to a determination that a current location of a second user is within the second area of impact a processor sends a second message to the second user based at least in part on the second news article. Advantageously some embodiments of this invention provide alerts to users of a variety of events. As such relevant news can be provided to the user to inform the user of the events. In yet a further optional aspect of the invention a processor sends alerts wherein the current location of the second user is outside the first area of impact. Advantageously some embodiments of this invention provide alerts to users that are currently outside an area of impact. As such the user can receive alerts for areas that they may potentially be at in the future. In yet a further optional aspect of the invention in response to a determination that a home location of a second user is within the first area of impact a processor sends a second message to the second user based at least in part on the first news article wherein the current location of the second user is outside the first area of impact. Advantageously some embodiments of this invention provide alerts to users who are away from home but an event is currently affecting the area associated with the user s home location. As such the user is kept up to date regarding events that may impact the user s home location. In yet a further optional aspect a processor determines the home location based on a social network profile of the user. Advantageously some embodiments of this invention provide a mechanism to determine a user s home location by analyzing a social network profile of the user for information. As such a home location can be determined without requiring direct input by a user. Some embodiments of the present invention may not possess all the potential advantages discussed herein and the potential advantages are not necessarily required of all embodiments.

While solutions to geo fencing are known they typically are static in the regards to the real world are covered by the geo fence. For areas and events that do not change or move prior solutions provided some usefulness. However for some events such as developing emergencies and other new events the area impacted changes over time. Embodiments of the present invention recognize that by retrieving and analyzing available news information an area of impact for an event can be tracked as news develops. As the area changes size or moves based on new developments a corresponding geo fence is created. Users entering or who are currently present in the current geo fenced area of impact are alerted of the news. In some embodiments based on available information such as social network messages posted by a user travel plans or future locations of a user can be identified and for users associated with but not currently located in the area of impact alerts can be provided. In a scenario where a user s current location is outside an area of impact but the user is associated with a location inside the area of impact e.g. the user is on vacation and a severe storm located at or near the user s home or the user indicates they have travel plans to visit an area with an on going event one embodiment has the advantage of providing updates and relevant news to a user about the on goings of events near a location associated with the user while the user is away from the location.

U.S. Patent Application Publication 2011 0148634 A1 Putz J. Predective Geofence Crossing Jun. 23 2011 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety discloses a predictive geofence system predicts a geofence crossing for a distance horizon and or a time horizon. The predictive geofence system includes a predictive geofence platform that predicts future positions of objects and generates an alert if the predicted future positions of the objects result in a geofence crossing or the predicted future positions cross a geofence in less than a set time.

U.S. Patent Application Publication 2013 0073388 A1 Heath S. System and method for using impressions tracking and analysis location information 2d and 3d mapping mobile mapping social media and user behavior and information for generating mobile and internet posted promotions or offers for and or sales of products and or services Mar. 21 2013 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety discloses a method apparatus computer readable medium computer system network or system provided for using impressions tracking and analysis location information 2D and 3D mapping social media and user behavior and information for generating mobile and internet posted promotions or offers for and or sales of products and or services for example through an advertising application programming interfaces APIs on mobile devices tablets or computers that provides mobile and web based promotions or offers that connect information and user behavior data to a user or related demographic location or user specified or predicted demographic location s such as through the use of as social networking user or demographic profiles behavior and or relationships for targeted promotions or offers for products and or services.

U.S. Patent Application Publication 2013 0295970 A1 Sheshadri S. et al. Geofence breach confidence Nov. 7 2013 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety discloses a system and method for a mobile device to efficiently use a geofence capability without draining its battery and to allow flexibility in specifying various parameters related to geofencing such as the latency and confidence in determining when or where a geofence breach occurs and reducing the probability of not detecting a geofence breach.

U.S. Patent Application Publication 2015 0065177 A1 Phillips A. et al. Location based Services Mar. 5 2015 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety discloses methods and systems relating to location based services such as providing a geofencing outputting location based information on a mobile device varying transmissions to and from a mobile device and providing location based alerts. More specifically a method can include receiving data defining a geofence monitoring a current location comparing the current location with the geofence determining that the current location is within the geofence and in response altering the state of an application on the mobile device.

European Patent Application EP 2 744 234 A1 Li A. et al. Geofencing system and method Jun. 18 2014 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety discloses a geofencing system and method wherein the computational complexity is transferred from a mobile device to a server. The server stores a plurality of geofences in a memory along with addresses of third party servers associated with each of the geofences receives current location data from the mobile device compares the current location data with each of the plurality of geofences to determine whether data is to be obtained from one or more of the third party servers associated with each of the geofences and if yes obtaining the data from the one or more servers and transmitting the data to the mobile device.

WIPO Application Publication WO 2014 118534 A1 Zimmer T. et al. Monitoring system for monitoring a plurality of mobile devices incorporated herein by reference in its entirety discloses monitoring system for monitoring a plurality of mobile devices at a server the system comprising the server and the plurality of mobile devices the plurality of mobile devices including a first mobile device the system configured such that i each mobile device acquires location data ii each mobile device sends the acquired location data to the server via a telecommunications network iii the first mobile device is operable to provide a first message to the server which indicates a high alert level from a user of the first mobile device and iv the first mobile device is operable to provide a second message to the server which indicates a lower level of alert from a user of the first mobile device than the high alert level.

The present invention may be a system a method and or a computer program product. The computer program product may include a computer readable storage medium or media having computer readable program instructions thereon for causing a processor to carry out aspects of the present invention.

The computer readable storage medium can be a tangible device that can retain and store instructions for use by an instruction execution device. The computer readable storage medium may be for example but is not limited to an electronic storage device a magnetic storage device an optical storage device an electromagnetic storage device a semiconductor storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. A non exhaustive list of more specific examples of the computer readable storage medium includes the following a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory a static random access memory SRAM a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM a digital versatile disk DVD a memory stick a floppy disk a mechanically encoded device such as punch cards or raised structures in a groove having instructions recorded thereon and any suitable combination of the foregoing. A computer readable storage medium as used herein is not to be construed as being transitory signals per se such as radio waves or other freely propagating electromagnetic waves electromagnetic waves propagating through a waveguide or other transmission media e.g. light pulses passing through a fiber optic cable or electrical signals transmitted through a wire.

Computer readable program instructions described herein can be downloaded to respective computing processing devices from a computer readable storage medium or to an external computer or external storage device via a network for example the Internet a local area network a wide area network and or a wireless network. The network may comprise copper transmission cables optical transmission fibers wireless transmission routers firewalls switches gateway computers and or edge servers. A network adapter card or network interface in each computing processing device receives computer readable program instructions from the network and forwards the computer readable program instructions for storage in a computer readable storage medium within the respective computing processing device.

Computer readable program instructions for carrying out operations of the present invention may be assembler instructions instruction set architecture ISA instructions machine instructions machine dependent instructions microcode firmware instructions state setting data or either source code or object code written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The computer readable program instructions may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider . In some embodiments electronic circuitry including for example programmable logic circuitry field programmable gate arrays FPGA or programmable logic arrays PLA may execute the computer readable program instructions by utilizing state information of the computer readable program instructions to personalize the electronic circuitry in order to perform aspects of the present invention.

Aspects of the present invention are described herein with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer readable program instructions.

These computer readable program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks. These computer readable program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable storage medium that can direct a computer a programmable data processing apparatus and or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the computer readable storage medium having instructions stored therein comprises an article of manufacture including instructions which implement aspects of the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer readable program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other device to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other device to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer other programmable apparatus or other device implement the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of instructions which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . In some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or carry out combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

The present invention will now be described in detail with reference to the Figures. is a functional block diagram illustrating networked environment generally designated in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. Networked environment includes user device and server connected over network . User device includes user program . Server includes alert program news data map data and profile data .

In various embodiments of the present invention user device and server are each a computing device that can be a standalone device a server a laptop computer a tablet computer a netbook computer a personal computer PC or a desktop computer. In another embodiment user device and server represent a computing system utilizing clustered computers and components to act as a single pool of seamless resources. In general user device server or any combination thereof can be any computing device or a combination of devices with access to news data map data and profile data and is capable of executing user program and alert program . User device and server may each include internal and external hardware components as depicted and described in further detail with respect to .

In this exemplary embodiment user program is stored on user device . Alert program news data map data and profile data are stored on server . However in other embodiments user program alert program news data map data and profile data may be stored externally and accessed through a communication network such as network . Network can be for example a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN such as the Internet or a combination of the two and may include wired wireless fiber optic or any other connection known in the art. In general network can be any combination of connections and protocols that will support communications between user device and server in accordance with a desired embodiment of the present invention.

In various embodiments user device includes a location subsystem or device to determine the current location of user device . As discussed herein when a user is in an area of impact of an ongoing event or is associated with the area of impact user program displays an alert message to the user indicating the event. Server includes alert program . Alert program retrieves news articles and other information from a variety of sources and devices. News articles include but are not limited to text video or audio including information regarding on going events. Events include but are not limited to natural disasters weather or any event that may impact users in a given area such as heavy traffic. Alert program stores retrieved news articles in news data . News data includes the text audio or video retrieved from the news articles and in some embodiments metadata regarding the article such as when the article became available or was posted by a source.

Based on the news articles in news data alert program determines the content for the article. For text articles alert program performs natural language processing NLP to determine the location of the event areas affected by the event and timing of the event. For video and audio articles alert program converts the audio streams to text by using speech recognition. Alert program determines the content of the audio and video articles by performing NLP to the converted text. Based on the location of the event and area covered by the event alert program determines an area of impact of the event. An area of impact includes a geographical area that will be impacted by an event. For example a flood warning is received and a list of counties affected by the warning are included in the warning. Alert program determines the area of impact to include the geographical areas covered by the affected counties.

Server includes map data . Map data includes a geographical map of various areas alert program provides messages for ongoing events. When alert program identifies an event in a news article alert program determines an area of impact and stores an indication of the impacted geographical area in map data . The impacted area acts as a geo fence representing the impacted area. Users located in or associated with the impacted area s geo fence are provided alerts of the event. A user s current location is retrieved from a location device in communication with user device . For example user device includes and GPS sensor. As another example user device includes a radio or cellular communication device. Based on a signal strength of the received signal from the communication device user device determines a current location. User program sends the current location of user device to alert program . If the current location of user device is within an area of impact for an event then alert program sends a message for display to the user by user program .

In various embodiments an alert includes a description of the event. For example the description includes a type of event and the location of the area of impact e.g. Heavy rain in the greater metro area . In some scenarios the alert includes links to or copies of the news data that alert program based the area of impact on. In other scenarios the alert includes information regarding plans or organizations that may provide help or assistance during the event e.g. a shelter s contact information or location an emergency help line s phone number a link to a social network profile of an aid organization or any information to help during the event or put in contact the user with someone or an organization that can provide assistance . Advantageously in some embodiments by comparing the location of a user and the location of an event embodiments of the present invention provide directed alerts to user s impacted by an event. Some embodiments of the present invention may possess this potential advantages and the potential advantage is not necessarily required in all embodiments. Additionally the alerts provide information regarding assistance such that impacted user s may seek help in the event of an emergency.

In some scenarios a user may be associated with an area of impact but not currently be located in the area. For example a user is on vacation and a hurricane warning is in effect for their hometown. In such scenarios alert program sends a message alerting users associated with an area of effect of the event. Server includes profile data for a variety of users. Profile data includes but is not limited to information regarding known locations associated with the user e.g. home addresses or work addresses locations associated with friends of the user other locations the user may visit e.g. travel plans of the user and the like. In one scenario alert program retrieves social network messages posted by the user from a social network platform not shown storing the retrieved messages in a profile associated with the user of profile data . Alert program performs NLP to determine if the messages contain information indicating future locations of the user e.g. Starting my trip to Spain . During the users travel to Spain a heavy storm hits the area. Alert program sends a message to user program of the traveling user alerting them of the storm before they arrive. Advantageously in some embodiments by determining the future travel plans or future locations of a user alerts can be provided to users prior to their arrival to an impacted area. As such the alert provides the user with information regarding the event and the user may change their travel plans or prepare accordingly. Some embodiments of the present invention may possess this potential advantages and the potential advantage is not necessarily required in all embodiments.

In other scenarios the area of impact for an event may change over time. A storm may become stronger weaken or move. Alert program continues to retrieve news articles. If a newly posted article indicates a change in the event then alert program updates map data to reflect the change in the area of impact resulting from the updated information. For example a weather warning for a named hurricane first lists counties on the coast of Florida. Alert program retrieves the warning from a source and determines the content of the event e.g. hurricane and the area of effect the counties in Florida listed in the warning . Alert program creates an area of effect in map data corresponding to the counties listed in the warning. Later alert program retrieves a new weather warning for the same named hurricane but now the warning indicates coastal counties in South Carolina. Alert program updates the area of effect stored in map data associated with the event e.g. the named hurricane to now cover the counties in South Carolina listed in the new weather warning. Advantageously in some embodiments by continually monitoring news articles embodiments of the present invention provide update to date information regarding an event. Furthermore in some embodiments when a current or future location of a user is within or predicted to be within an area of impact embodiments of the present invention advantageously provides updated alerts thereby providing a user with relevant information as events develop. Some embodiments of the present invention may possess this potential advantages and the potential advantage is not necessarily required in all embodiments.

In various embodiments alert program continues to retrieve news articles regarding events. In some scenarios alert program determines an event has ended and removes the area of impact from map data associated with the event. For example a weather warning may have a time indicating the ending of the warning. As another example alert program retrieves a news article indicating the end of the event. In one scenario alert program includes a list of average times for event to last. After retrieving a news article indicating an event has begun alert program will create an area of effect for the event based on the average time associated with the event or similar types of events.

In various embodiments alert program determines the content of the news article. Alert program performs NLP to determine the content of the news article. In process alert program determines the event indicated in the news article. In some scenarios the event may be a specific named event. For example a news article includes the name of a tropical storm. In other scenarios the news article includes a type of event. In such a scenario alert program assigns identifier for the event to track the event. For example a flood warning is issued for an area. Alert program assigns the event to a flood category and assigns a unique identifier to track the flood e.g. a general location of the event such as eastern panhandle flood .

In process alert program determines the area of impact for the event. In some scenarios the area may be explicitly listed e.g. a city s name . In other scenarios the location may be implied e.g. a user posts a message on a social network saying The is a wildfire outside my house where the implicit area is the home address of the user posing the message . In another scenario the size of the area of impact for an event may be determined based on the severity of the event. For example heavy rains may have a smaller area compared to a torrential rain event.

In decision process alert program determines if a user if within the area of effect for an event. If so YES branch of decision process then alert program sends an alert message to user program for display to the user process . The message includes a description of the event. In some scenarios the message includes information regarding help associated with the event e.g. the location of the nearest flood shelter . If the user is not currently located in an area of effect NO branch of decision process then alert program continues to monitor the event and news articles about the event decision process . If new developments have occurred for the event YES branch of decision process then alert program determines a new area of impact for the event process . For example a wildfire may have spread to new areas. As such alert program updates the area of effect for the wildfire event to cover the newly impacted areas. If no new developments have occurred NO branch of decision process then alert program determines if the event has stopped decision process . In some scenarios alert program retrieves a news article indicating the event has stopped e.g. Fire extinguished . In other scenarios alert program includes expected ending times for an event. When the expected ending time has been reached the alert program removes the event from map data . If the event has stopped YES branch of decision process then alert program removes the event from map data . If the event is ongoing NO branch of process then alert program continues to monitor the user s location alerting them if they enter or in some embodiments plan to enter as discussed herein the area of effect. Furthermore alert program continues to monitor ongoing developments for the event for various sources to determine and changes in the area of effect of if the event has stopped.

In process alert program determines a future location of the user based on the message data. Alert program determines the content of a message by using Natural Language Processing NLP . Alert program determines if a location is present in the message data by comparing the text of the message to a dictionary of known locations. For messages containing an explicit location e.g. Going to Hong Kong on a business trip then alert program determines the explicit location to be a future location of the user. In some scenarios a message contains an implicit location e.g. Going back home to visit mom . For messages containing implicit locations alert program retrieves various types of information to determine the implicit location. For example if a friend or family member is mentioned in a message alert program retrieves a known location corresponding to the friend or family member. In some scenarios profile data is present for the friend or family member. As such alert program receives a location associated with the friend or family member using the location as the future location of the user. In some embodiments alert program determines a time frame for the user being at a future location. For example if a message includes information indicating a time frame e.g. Will be at Vegas this weekend. then alert program assigns a time frame the user will be at the future location.

In process alert program compares the future location of the user to one or more determined areas of impact in map data . As discussed herein alert program determines areas of impact for events that are currently occurring or predicted to occur. If the user will be in an area of impact associated with an event YES branch of decision process then alert program sends an alert to the user. The alert includes a description of the event. The alert may also includes news data regarding the event or information regarding assistance pertaining to the event. If the user does not have any message indicating a future location or the future location of the user does not intersect with an area of impact NO branch of decision process then alert program continues the retrieve messages from various social networks process . Alert program determines if any areas of impact either new or developing correspond to a future location of the user alerting the user as discussed herein.

As another example initial event area of impact may indicate an initial area of impact of a wildfire. Alert program creates initial event area of impact based on a report from a forestry organization. When an updated report indicates the wildfire has spread alert program expands the area of impact to the updated event area of impact . As another example initial event area of impact may indicate an initial area of impact of a severe weather pattern. Alert program creates initial are of impact based on a weather warning that includes the names of a county affected e.g. the county outlined by initial area of impact . At a later time a new weather warning is issued for the same severe weather pattern however the county list in the initial warning is no longer included in the new warning. Instead a new county is listed in the warning. Alert program updates the area of impact to cover the indicated county i.e. updated event area of impact while no longer including the county indicated on the first warning.

In some embodiments alert program maintains an area of impact even after news data indicates the event has ceased impact on the area e.g. a weather report now longer indicates the area under a warning . Based on the severity of the event alert program maintains the area of impact for an event. For example for a storm the area of impact may have a smaller impact after the event than a hurricane or other severe weather pattern. As such alert program maintains the area of impact after the event has ceased so that users may still be able to find assistance and retrieve news data associated with the event. In some embodiments this also provides an advantage to users who have arrived to an area of impact after the event since they will be alerted of the impacted status of the area they have arrived at. Some embodiments of the present invention may possess this potential advantages and the potential advantage is not necessarily required in all embodiments.

User device and server each include communications fabric which provides communications between computer processor s memory persistent storage communications unit and input output I O interface s . Communications fabric can be implemented with any architecture designed for passing data and or control information between processors such as microprocessors communications and network processors etc. system memory peripheral devices and any other hardware components within a system. For example communications fabric can be implemented with one or more buses.

Memory and persistent storage are computer readable storage media. In this embodiment memory includes random access memory RAM and cache memory . In general memory can include any suitable volatile or non volatile computer readable storage media.

User program alert program news data map data and profile data are stored in persistent storage for execution and or access by one or more of the respective computer processors via one or more memories of memory . In this embodiment persistent storage includes a magnetic hard disk drive. Alternatively or in addition to a magnetic hard disk drive persistent storage can include a solid state hard drive a semiconductor storage device read only memory ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM flash memory or any other computer readable storage media that is capable of storing program instructions or digital information.

The media used by persistent storage may also be removable. For example a removable hard drive may be used for persistent storage . Other examples include optical and magnetic disks thumb drives and smart cards that are inserted into a drive for transfer onto another computer readable storage medium that is also part of persistent storage .

Communications unit in these examples provides for communications with other data processing systems or devices including resources of network . In these examples communications unit includes one or more network interface cards. Communications unit may provide communications through the use of either or both physical and wireless communications links. User program alert program news data map data and profile data may be downloaded to persistent storage through communications unit .

I O interface s allows for input and output of data with other devices that may be connected to user device and server . For example I O interface may provide a connection to external devices such as a keyboard keypad a touch screen and or some other suitable input device. External devices can also include portable computer readable storage media such as for example thumb drives portable optical or magnetic disks and memory cards. Software and data used to practice embodiments of the present invention e.g. user program alert program news data map data and profile data can be stored on such portable computer readable storage media and can be loaded onto persistent storage via I O interface s . I O interface s also connect to a display .

Display provides a mechanism to display data to a user and may be for example a computer monitor or a television screen.

The programs described herein are identified based upon the application for which they are implemented in a specific embodiment of the invention. However it should be appreciated that any particular program nomenclature herein is used merely for convenience and thus the invention should not be limited to use solely in any specific application identified and or implied by such nomenclature.

It is to be noted that the term s Smalltalk and the like may be subject to trademark rights in various jurisdictions throughout the world and are used here only in reference to the products or services properly denominated by the marks to the extent that such trademark rights may exist.

