---

title: Smart-home hazard detector providing non-alarm status signals at opportune moments
abstract: A hazard detector may include a light sensor that senses a brightness level in an ambient environment. The hazard detector can have a processing system that receives an indication of the brightness level in the ambient environment from the light sensor. The processing system may then determine whether illumination in the ambient environment has been dimmed. Responsive to the dimming, the processing system may access information representative of a status of one or more components of the hazard detector. An illumination state may then be selected from a plurality of illumination states based on the accessed information representative of the status of the one or more components of the hazard detector. A light may then be illuminated based on the selected illumination state.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09552718&OS=09552718&RS=09552718
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09552718
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150310
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 14 508 047 filed Oct. 7 2014 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 007 224 entitled Smart Home Hazard Detector Providing Non Alarm Status Signals At Opportune Moments which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 887 969 filed Oct. 7 2013 entitled User Friendly Detection Unit and claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 887 963 filed Oct. 7 2013 which are each hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes.

Hazard detection devices such as smoke alarms and carbon monoxide alarms help alert home or building occupants to the presence of danger but typically leave much to be desired in the realm of usability. For example in many conventional hazard detection devices when an installed battery s charge is low the hazard detection device will periodically emit a chirp or other sound to alert nearby persons to the low battery charge condition. Frequently this sound will initiate being produced by the hazard detection device during the night waking nearby persons from sleep and potentially sending them on a hunt through their dwelling for the offending hazard detection device. Further in order to test the functionality of a conventional hazard detection device it is typically required to press a button located on the hazard detection device. Such an arrangement may be inefficient such as if the hazard detection device is located in an inconvenient place.

This patent specification relates to systems devices methods and related computer program products for smart buildings including the smart home. More particularly this patent specification relates to detection units such as hazard detection units e.g. smoke detectors. carbon monoxide sensors etc. or other monitoring devices that are useful in smart building and smart home environments.

Various systems devices apparatuses methods computer readable mediums are presented that allow for the presentation of statuses of a hazard detector. Such a status may be presented in the form of an illuminated light using one or more colors and animations. Such a status may be presented when the brightness level in an environment drops below a threshold level.

In some embodiments a hazard detector is presented that include at least one hazard detection sensor that detects a presence of at least one type of hazard. The hazard detector may include a light sensor that senses a brightness level in an ambient environment of the hazard detector. The hazard detector may include a light. The hazard detector may include a processing system provided in operative communication with the at least one hazard detection sensor the light sensor and the light. The processing system may be configured to receive an indication of the brightness level in the ambient environment of the hazard detector from the light sensor. The processing system may be configured to determine the brightness level in the ambient environment of the hazard detector has reached a threshold value. The processing system may be configured to perform a status check of one or more components of the hazard detector. The processing system may be configured to select an illumination state from a plurality of illumination states based on the status check wherein each illumination state of the plurality of illumination states is assigned to a status associated with the hazard detector. The processing system may be configured to cause the light to illuminate using the selected illumination state of the plurality of illumination states in response to the determining the brightness level in the ambient environment of the hazard detector has reached the threshold value.

Embodiments of such a hazard detector may include one or more of the following features The at least one hazard detection sensor may include a smoke detection sensor and a carbon monoxide detection sensor. The processing system being configured to perform the status check of the one or more components of the hazard detector may include the processing system being configured to determine that a battery charge of a battery of the hazard detector is below a threshold charge level wherein the illumination state is indicative of a low battery condition. Each illumination state of the plurality of illumination states may include at least a color and an animation pattern. The processing system may be configured to gradually increase a brightness level of the light for at least 0.5 seconds maintain the brightness level of the light for at least 0.5 seconds and gradually decrease the brightness level of the light for at least 0.5 seconds. The hazard detector may include wireless transceiver configured to communicate with a wireless network wherein the processing system is further configured to transmit a request to a remote server system accessible via the wireless transceiver and the Internet. The processing system may be configured to receive a notification from the remote server system via the wireless transceiver wherein the illumination state is selected by the processing system based on the status check of the one or more components of the hazard detector and the notification from the remote server system received via the wireless transceiver. The hazard detector may include a plurality of light emitting diodes LEDs that output light from the hazard detector in a circular pattern. The hazard detector may include a button configured to be actuated by a user to initiate a function of the hazard detector wherein the plurality of LEDs are arranged to output light from the hazard detector in the circular pattern encircling the button. The processing system may be configured to determine whether at least a threshold time period has elapsed since previously causing the light to illuminate in response to determining the lighting condition is indicative of the brightness level in the ambient environment of the hazard detector reaching the threshold value. The processing system may be configured to cause the light to illuminate based on the illumination state and further based on at least the threshold time period having been determined to have elapsed. The hazard detector may include a motion detection sensor that senses motion in the ambient environment of the hazard detector wherein the processing system is further configured to cause the light to illuminate based on the motion detector indicating motion is present in the ambient environment of the hazard detector and the lighting condition indicative of the brightness level in the ambient environment of the hazard detector reaching the threshold value. The processing system may be configured to cause the light to illuminate based on the motion detector indicating motion is present in the ambient environment of the hazard detector the lighting condition indicative of the brightness level in the ambient environment of the hazard detector reaching the threshold value and a user defined setting stored by the processing system indicative of the hazard detector being not inside a bedroom.

In some embodiments a hazard detector apparatus is presented. The apparatus may include means for measuring a brightness level in the ambient environment of the hazard detector. The apparatus may include means for determining the brightness level in the ambient environment of the hazard detector has reached a stored threshold value. The apparatus may include means for performing a status check of one or more components of the hazard detector. The apparatus may include means for selecting an illumination state from a plurality of illumination states based on the status check wherein each illumination state of the plurality of illumination states is assigned to a status associated with the hazard detector. The apparatus may include means for illuminating using the selected illumination state of the plurality of illumination states in response to determining the brightness level in the ambient environment of the hazard detector has reached the threshold value.

Further the apparatus may include means for wirelessly communicating with a wireless network to transmit a request to a remote server system accessible via the wireless network and the Internet. The apparatus may include means for receiving via the wireless network a notification from the remote server system. The illumination state is selected may be based on the status check and the notification from the remote server system received via the wireless network.

Hazard detectors may include smoke detectors carbon monoxide detectors and or other forms of detectors that can detect the presence of a hazard. For instance a hazard detector may be a combined smoke and carbon monoxide detector configured to be installed on a wall or ceiling in a room such as a room of a home e.g. bedroom office kitchen hallway etc. or other type of structure. It may be beneficial for such a hazard detector to provide a user with information regarding the functioning of the hazard detector. For the purposes of this document a user refers to a person who is in the vicinity of the hazard detector and or is interacting with the hazard detector. The hazard detector may provide a user with status information such as the result of a battery test that determines if the battery has sufficient charge has a low charge or needs to be replaced immediately. In a conventional hazard detector whenever a low battery condition is detected the hazard detector may commence emitting a periodic noise such as a loud chirp to alert nearby users to the low battery condition. In contrast to such a conventional arrangement information regarding a status of the hazard detector may be presented by embodiments of a hazard detector detailed herein in response to environmental conditions.

Such environmental conditions may be indicative of a user leaving a room potentially for the last time on a given day or going to bed . The hazard detector may monitor the lighting conditions of its ambient environment and determine when the amount of ambient light has dropped below a threshold level. Such a drop in ambient light may be indicative of a user shutting one or more lights off in the vicinity of the hazard detector. Further the ambient light dropping below the threshold level may be indicative of evening and a dearth of natural light being present in the ambient environment of the hazard detector. In response to the hazard detector detecting that the amount of light present in its vicinity has dropped below the threshold level either performance of a status check may be triggered or presentation of the results of a status check may be triggered to be presented. The status check may check various conditions of the hazard detector such as the battery charge level connectivity to a remote server whether any messages are pending for a user of the hazard detector e.g. at the remote server whether the smoke sensor and or carbon monoxide sensor is functioning properly whether the effective life of the hazard detector has expired whether a full test of the hazard detector should be performed whether wired power is being received by the hazard detector whether connectivity to a wireless network is present and or other conditions of the hazard detector.

Regardless of whether the status check is performed prior to or in response to the ambient light of the hazard detector dropping to the threshold value the drop in ambient lighting may trigger the hazard detector to visually present a result of the status check. Color animation patterns and or a speed of presentation may be used to convey information to a user. For instance green light may be presented to the user for a brief time following the lighting condition reaching the threshold brightness level. Such green light may be indicative of the status check identifying no issues that need action from a user. If yellow light is displayed instead this may be indicative of the status check determining one or more issues such as a low battery condition require action from the user. Yellow light may be indicative of actions that are not needed immediately. Red light may be indicative of the status check determining one or more issues need to be dealt with by the user immediately such as a missing battery or a damaged sensor. The use of light to provide the status may be especially useful to avoid being overly intrusive to users in the vicinity of the hazard detector. For instance the status check of the hazard detector could be ignored by an uninterested user simply by not looking at the hazard detector. Thus for some embodiments it has been found particularly advantageous to provide an optical signal such as the light signal described above while particularly avoiding the provision of an accompanying alerting sound signal for non alarm status notifications. While sound signals are certainly a necessary part of alarm level conditions in which a hazardous condition is actually detected it has been found to be more advantageous not to use sound signals and to use more subtle signals such as light only signals for certain circumstances of lesser importance. In some scenarios this can have very advantageous consequences in comparison to alternative scenarios. For example it can be the case that a hazard detector emitting the dreaded low battery chirp might simply be removed from the wall by an irritated sleepy user and set on the floor or table with the battery compartment hastily opened and the battery removed. This is a clearly disadvantageous situation since there is then no hazard detection at all for that location until such time as the user perhaps the following day hopefully reinstalls a fresh battery and places the unit back in its proper location. In contrast by using a mildly alerting optical signal such as a yellow light while withholding the irritating chirp for situations in which the battery is starting to get low the user will know that something needs attention when they see that yellow color but the situation of disablement by an irritated sleepy user can be avoided so that there is proper hazard detection taking place at all times. As another advantage the provision of a brief silent green light or other silent but visually reassuring signal can provide a pleasing sense of reassurance for the user without being irritated or interfering. For example for the situation of a mother who has just put her young child to bed and is turning out the lights for the night the brief silent pleasant green glow can provide a satisfying sense of well being and reassurance. Notably at the same there is a constructive recurring pattern of cognition being built up whether it be in the conscious mind or the subconscious mind in that there will be an expectation that the green glow will occur when the light is turned out such that if the green glow is replaced by a yellow glow it will be all the more noticeable. It is to be appreciated that the features and advantages of the preferred embodiments are best applied in the context of a battery that is starting to get low but that is not too low. In accordance with governmental safety standards it is preferable to continue to provide the unpleasant chirping sound when the battery gets too low. However when implemented according to one or more of the preferred embodiments described herein it is substantially less probable that the hazard detector will ever get to the too low condition as there will have likely been several opportunities for the user to have already changed the battery upon seeing and responding to the silent yellow light alerts that will have occurred over several days or weeks.

Once a status has been presented the light on the hazard detector may shut off or may fade to off. Once the status has been presented the hazard detector may be configured to not present the status again until at least a predefined period of time has elapsed e.g. 1 hour 4 hours 20 hours 1 day etc. . In some embodiments the hazard detector may be configured to provide ambient lighting if motion is detected in the vicinity of the hazard detector the ambient lighting is below the threshold and the hazard detector is configured to provide such light e.g. the hazard detector has received input indicating it is not present in a bedroom . The same light which output the status may be used to provide ambient lighting possibility using a different color such as white light.

If a user views the status presented by the hazard detector and is satisfied with the status or is otherwise uninterested the user may perform no other action may simply leave the room may go to bed or otherwise may continue about his or her day. However in some situations the user may desire more information about the status. For instance if the hazard detector presents a yellow status the user may desire to learn one or more details about the status. For a predetermined period of time after the status has been presented the hazard detector may activate a motion detector that can determine if the user has performed any gestures in the vicinity of the hazard detector. For instance if the hazard detector is attached to the ceiling below the hazard detector or otherwise nearby the user may wave one time or multiple times to trigger the hazard detector to provide detail about the previously displayed status. If the gesture is detected rather than outputting a visual indicator the hazard detector may output an auditory message. For instance the auditory message may be a spoken message that indicates further detail about the status of the hazard detector. As an example the hazard detector may state The battery is low. Please replace the battery at your earliest convenience. The ability to use a gesture to trigger the detail about the status to be spoken to the user may be useful especially if the hazard detector is out of reach such as mounted to a ceiling.

Hazard sensor may be configured to detect a particular type of hazard in the vicinity of hazard detector . For instance hazard sensor may be configured to detect the presence of smoke or the presence of carbon monoxide in the vicinity of hazard detector . While hazard detector is illustrated as having a single hazard sensor it should be understood that multiple hazard sensors may be present. For instance hazard detector may include both a smoke sensor and a carbon monoxide sensor. In some embodiments multiple forms of smoke sensors may be present. For instance an ionization based smoke sensor may be present and also a photoelectric smoke sensor may be present. Each of such types of smoke sensor may be preferable for detecting various forms of fires e.g. fast flaming fires slow smoldering fires . It should be understood that other forms of hazard sensors may be possible to use as hazard sensor for example hazard sensor may be configured to detect the presence of ammonium volatile organic compounds humidity temperature or any other environmental condition which may pose a threat to users or equipment in the vicinity. Whether one or more hazard sensors are present data may be transferred to processing system . For example if hazard sensor detects the presence of smoke data indicating the presence of smoke may be transferred to processing system by hazard sensor . Hazard sensor may also be able to provide processing system with additional information such as data indicating whether hazard sensor is functioning properly. In some embodiments it may be possible for processing system to transmit a signal to hazard sensor that causes hazard sensor to perform a self test.

Light sensor may be configured to detect a brightness level of light in the ambient environment of hazard detector . Light sensor may provide data to processing system that indicates a brightness of the ambient environment of hazard detector . In some embodiments rather than providing a brightness level to processing system light sensor may indicate to processing system when a threshold brightness level has been reached by the brightness of the ambient environment of hazard detector . In some embodiments the threshold brightness value may be monitored for when the brightness drops below the threshold brightness value to trigger the status check of hazard detector .

Light may include one or more lighting elements such as light emitting diodes LEDs that are configured to output multiple colors of light. Further light may be configured to output various patterns of light. For example light may be configured to output green yellow red blue and white light. Further light may be configured to flash produce a circulation effect as will be further described in this document also referred to as a halo sweep effect and or fade on and off.

Processing system may be in communication with hazard sensor light sensor and the light . Processing system may include one or more processors configured to receive data from hazard sensor and light sensor and configured to control illumination of light . Processing system may receive data from light sensor . Processing system may be configured to use the data received from light sensor to determine when the brightness in the ambient environment of hazard detector has dropped below a threshold brightness level. Therefore processing system may store the threshold brightness level used for the comparison with brightness information received in the data from light sensor . Processing system may also be configured to monitor when the last time a status check was performed and or when was the last time the brightness level in the ambient environment of hazard detector dropped below the threshold brightness level. In some embodiments processing system periodically performs a status check of one or more components of hazard detector and possibly checks an account of the user of hazard detector stored by a remote server . In some embodiments rather than periodically performing the status check processing system may perform the status check in response to the ambient brightness detected by light sensor dropping below the threshold brightness level.

Processing system may be configured to check the status of hazard sensor . For instance processing system may be configured to query hazard sensor to determine if hazard sensor is functioning properly. In some embodiments processing system is configured to determine if hazard sensor has expired for example smoke detectors may be considered only functional for a predetermined amount of time such as seven years .

Processing system may be configured to check the status of one or more components of hazard detector in addition to or alternatively to hazard sensor . For instance processing system may be configured to check a battery level of an onboard battery of hazard detector . In response to the status check performed by processing system processing system may be configured to determine a light color animation pattern and or speed that corresponds to the determined status. Processing system may cause light to illuminate according to the determined light color pattern and or speed. Light may be lit according to the light color pattern and or speed for a predetermined amount of time such as two or three seconds in order to convey the result of the status check to a user in the vicinity of hazard detector . In some embodiments the status is presented as part of a one second fade in one second at full brightness and one second fade out animation of the light. Such a quick presentation may help preserve battery life.

While hazard detector was illustrated as having a single hazard sensor hazard detector has two hazard detectors carbon monoxide sensor and smoke sensor . To be clear carbon monoxide sensor may be configured to detect carbon monoxide and smoke sensor may be configured to detect smoke. In some embodiments multiple forms of smoke sensors are present including an ionization sensor and a photoelectric sensor. Both carbon monoxide sensor and smoke sensor may provide an indication of a presence of the hazard to processing system .

Hazard detector is illustrated as including battery based power source and structure power source . In some embodiments of hazard detector such a configuration may be present. Structure power source may be used to power hazard detector when such power is present. Structure power source may represent a hard wired connector within a structure e.g. house building office etc. configured to provide an AC or DC voltage source to one or more hazard detectors located throughout the structure. While the AC or DC power may be available a significant percentage of time e.g. 99.5 of the time it may be desirable for hazard detector to continue functioning if power in the structure in which hazard detector is installed is unavailable e.g. during a power failure . As such battery based power source may also be present. Battery based power source may include one or more batteries which are configured to power the various components of hazard detector when structure power source is not available. In some embodiments of hazard detector structure power source is not present. As such hazard detector may permanently rely on battery based power source to power components of hazard detector . Structure power source and battery based power source are illustrated in as connected with processing system . Processing system may be configured to determine if structure power source is available and or check a charge level of battery based power source . It should be understood that while structure power source and battery based power source are illustrated as only connected with processing system this is for simplicity only structure power source and battery based power source may be connected to the various components of hazard detector as necessary to power such components.

Motion sensor may be configured to detect motion in the vicinity of hazard detector . Motion sensor may be configured to detect one or more gestures that may be performed by user in the vicinity of hazard detector . In some embodiments motion sensor may be a passive infrared PIR sensor that detects received infrared radiation. For instance motion sensor may be configured to detect a wave gesture performed by user. In some embodiments multiple waves may be required to be performed by the user in order for a wave gesture to be detected. In some embodiments motion sensor may only be enabled at certain times such as to conserve power. If only battery based power source is available motion sensor may only be enabled for a predefined period of time after a status is output via light to a user. As such motion sensor may be used to detect if a gesture is performed by the user within a predefined amount of time after the status has been output via light . If structure power source is available motion sensor may be enabled a greater amount of time. For instance motion sensor may be used to monitor for whenever a user is within the vicinity of hazard detector . Such motion detection may be used to enable lighting to allow a user to see in the vicinity of hazard detector and or may be used to control and or provide data to HVAC systems within the structure. If structure power source is available motion sensor may in some embodiments only be enabled for a predefined period of time after status has been presented via light in order to monitor for a gesture performed by a user in the vicinity of hazard detector .

User input module may represent an alternate form of input component through which a user can provide input to processing system in addition or in alternate to a gesture. User input module may take the form of a button or switch on hazard detector . By depressing the button or actuating the switch a user can provide input via user input module to processing system . For instance user input module may be used to disable the alarm currently sounding by hazard detector .

Wireless communication module may be configured to allow processing system to communicate with a wireless network present within the structure in which hazard detector is installed. For instance wireless communication module may be configured to communicate with a wireless network that uses the 802.11a b g network protocol for communication. Wireless communication module may permit processing system to communicate with a remote server. The remote server may be configured to provide information to processing system about an account of the user associated with hazard detector . For instance if an account of the user maintained at the remote server requires attention from a user such indication may be provided to processing system via wireless communication module . Such indication may be provided by the remote server in response to inquiry from processing system made to the remote server. Further processing system may transmit status information to a remote server. Such an arrangement may permit a user to view status information by logging in to the remote server via a computing device.

Audio output module may be configured to output various forms of audio in response to data provided to audio output module by processing system . Audio output module may be a speaker that can output recorded or synthesized spoken messages. For instance voice based messages which may indicate the presence of a hazard or may provide detail on the status of the hazard detector may be output by audio output module in order to be heard by a user in the vicinity of hazard detector . Audio output module may be configured to output an alarm sound such as a shrill beep or tone that is intended to alert users to the presence of a hazard. Different patterns and or tones of sound may be used to alert users to different types of hazards. In some embodiments spoken messages may be interspersed with patterns and or tones of sound to alert users to the presence of a hazard.

Processing system which may be configured to communicate with the various components presented in is part of hazard detector . For instance processing system may receive data from motion sensor user input module wireless communication module carbon monoxide sensor smoke sensor battery based power source structure power source and or light sensor . Processing system may also output data to various components of hazard detector including wireless communication module light and or audio output module . Processing system may be configured to periodically perform or in response to environmental condition perform a status check of one or more components of hazard detector . For instance processing system may be configured to check a charge level of battery based power source check whether structure power source is available determine account status maintained at a remote server via wireless communication module and or test whether sensors such as carbon monoxide sensor and or smoke sensor are functional. Processing system may then output information regarding the status to a user via light and or audio output module . It should be understood that processing system may be configured to perform various blocks of the methods detailed in relation to .

Processing system may contain multiple engines that are implemented using software running on hardware firmware and or hardware. Such engines may include status check engine definition lookup engine output trigger engine motion analysis engine and presentation monitor engine . It should be understood that such engines may be split into a greater number of engines or may be combined into fewer engines. Status check engine may be configured to perform a status check periodically such as once per day or once per hour. In some embodiments status check engine may be configured to perform a status check based on an indication from output trigger engine that indicates that a status indication is to be output. Status check engine may check the status of one or more components of the hazard detector. Status check engine may check the status of a battery level of battery based power source as compared to one or more thresholds carbon monoxide sensor e.g. functional nonfunctional expired etc. smoke sensor e.g. functional nonfunctional expired etc. motion sensor e.g. functional nonfunctional structure power source e.g. available unavailable light sensor e.g. functional nonfunctional etc. Status check engine may check the status of a user account associated with the hazard detector by querying a remote server. Status check engine may check battery based power source against multiple thresholds. A first threshold which may be greater than the second threshold may be used to determine that a battery is approaching a low voltage and the user should consider replacing it. The second threshold may be used to determine the battery s voltage is low and should be replaced immediately. More than two thresholds are also possible for assessing battery voltage.

Based on the result of the status check by status check engine an output may be supplied to definition lookup engine . Definition lookup engine may determine a color animation and or speed at which light should be illuminated to provide an indication of the status to one or more users. Definition lookup engine may access one or more lookup tables to determine an appropriate combination of color animation and or speed for representing the determined status.

Output trigger engine may cause the appropriate combination of color animation and or speed selected by definition lookup engine to be used to illuminate light in response to a determination that data from light sensor is indication of the light in the ambient environment of hazard detector being at or below a stored threshold brightness level and or that at least an amount of time has elapsed since the previous time that an indication of the status was output. Presentation monitor engine may determine whether at least a stored threshold period of time has elapsed since the last time an indication of the status of the hazard detector was output. If the threshold period of time has not elapsed presentation monitor engine may provide an indication to output trigger engine that prevents light from being illuminated based on the status.

Motion analysis engine may be active during and or following presentation of the status via light for up to a stored threshold period of time . If a particular gesture such as a wave gesture is identified by motion analysis engine based on data from motion sensor detail about the status may be output via audio output module or some other component of hazard detector .

While the previous detailed embodiments are focused on hazard detectors configured to detect hazards such as fire smoke or carbon monoxide in the environment of the hazard detector embodiments detailed in this document may be adapted to detection of other forms of events. illustrates a block diagram of a system that may perform a function in response to an unrelated event. System may be configured to detect one or more forms of events. Such event may or may not qualify as a hazard. System may represent embodiments of hazard detector and or hazard detector of respectively. Alternatively system may include processing system function module event detection module and output module .

Function module may be configured to perform some function such as monitoring an environment in the vicinity of system for one or more conditions. For example these conditions may be hazards. However it should be understood that one or more conditions being monitored for by function module may be other than hazards. As an example function module may monitor for motion temperature humidity and or the presence or absence of some other condition or object. Function module may perform some function other than a monitoring function. For instance function module may perform a status check of some other system or may serve to activate some other component or system. Function module may perform any number of various functions such as control of a motor a pump a medical system a computing device etc. Function module may provide input to processing system . Further processing system may be configured to check a status of function module .

Event detection module may be configured to monitor the vicinity of system for one or more types of event. This event may trigger one or more actions to be performed by processing system . For example a triggering event detected by event detection module may cause processing system to initiate function module and or perform a status check of one or more components of system such as function module . The event detected by event detection module may be unrelated to the functioning of function module . While event detection module may be configured to detect an event that coincides with the time at which the user is likely to desire information about system this event may be unrelated to performance of any other function of system . For example if function module is monitoring humidity event detection module may be configured to trigger based on brightness in the environment of system or some other condition such as temperature the presence of a chemical or other substance in the air motion or some other type of event or condition. As a simple example if event detection module is configured to monitor for brightness in the vicinity of system when the brightness level in the vicinity of system reaches a predefined value processing system may perform a self test or status check on one or more components of system such as function module and or an onboard power source such as a battery. Output module may be used to provide an output that indicates the result of the self test or status check. In some embodiments rather than the self test or status check being performed in response to the event detected by event detection module the self test or status check may be performed based on some other schedule but an indication of the results of the self test or status check may be output via output module in response to the events being detected by event detection module .

Event detection module may be configured to detect an event that coincides with the time at which the user is likely to desire information about system . One possible example is based on brightness of light in the ambient environment of system . For instance when the light within the vicinity of system increases it may correspond to a light being turned on and the user entering a room in which system is present. Similarly when brightness within the vicinity of system decreases it may correspond to a light being turned off and the user leaving a room in which system is present. Both of these events may represent an opportune time for either a status check to be performed or results of a status check to be output to a user. For instance if function module is monitoring a condition in a room of a structure upon entering the room and turning on a light a user may find it useful to learn the status of system . Similarly in certain circumstances the user may find it useful to learn the status of system upon leaving the room of the structure in which system is installed.

Output module may be configured to provide an indication of the self test or status check performed by processing system . Output module may include components configured to visually output an indication of the status or self test and or may include components configured to output audio such that an auditory indication of the status or self test is output. For instance output module may include one or more speakers and or one or more lights such as LEDs such as detailed in relation to hazard detectors and . Output module may receive data from processing system which triggers sound and or visual output. In some embodiments processing system may output spoken messages to be output by output module . It should be understood that embodiments of system may be further configured to include components such as those detailed in relation to hazard detector of .

While light is illustrated as a circle or halo it should be understood that in other embodiments of hazard detector other shapes may be used for light . For instance light may be elliptical square triangular some other geometric shape some other abstract shape or a line. Similarly in some embodiments case is square or rectangular with rounded edges. While such a design may be pleasing to the eye other shapes both geometric or abstract may be used to house the functional components of hazard detector . In some embodiments light represents a depressed portion of case which reflects light generated within hazard detector . For instance one or more LEDs may be located within case such as behind center region and may be output light that reflects off a depressed portion of case in the shape of light .

Center region may include a lens that is used in conjunction with a motion sensor to determine if a user is present and or detect whether a gesture has been performed by user. Center region may serve a dual function functioning as a lens and as a button which can be pushed by user to provide input to hazard detector . In some embodiments center region is only a button. When center region is a button by having center region encircled by light it may be easy for a user to locate the button in a darkened environment when light is illuminated. In such a situation the user would only need to push within the circle of light or other region defined by light in order to actuate the button.

In some embodiments LEDs may be used as part of light which is present on case . In other embodiments other forms of components that create visible light may be used in place of LEDs such as light sources that use fluorescent or incandescent technologies. Further light is illustrated in as being arranged in a circle. It should be understood that in other embodiments light may be arranged in other shapes such as an oval square rectangle line or some abstract shape.

The circulation effect also referred to as a halo sweep effect can be caused by various lighting elements such as LEDs of light being illuminated at different brightness levels at a given time. Lighting elements of light are illuminated consecutively then faded to off. This effect results in the appearance of a point of light spinning around light with a tail. A user viewing hazard detector may view the circulation or halo effect and understand the status of the hazard detector based on the lighting effect and or the color of light being output by light . In some embodiments when the circulation effect is being output each lighting element of light may output the same color or multiple colors may be output by different lighting elements. Imaginary arrow illustrates the circulation effect the opposite direction is also possible. The darker a lighting element is shaded in the brighter the lighting element may be illuminated. Therefore in some embodiments a first lighting element may be bright while the lighting element immediately behind it may be slightly less bright and so on. Imaginary arrow shows the circulation effect of hazard detector at a later time at which a different lighting element is now the brightest lighting element with subsequent lighting elements being illuminated progressively less bright.

In various embodiments the visual effects described above could be varied in a number of different ways. For example each effect may be animated faster or slower brighter or dimmer for a specific number of animation cycles with only some of the light participating and using different colors e.g. white blue green yellow and red. and or a mixture of multiple colors.

These visual effects may be generated by the hazard detectors detailed herein for a variety of specified purposes. For example a specific color animation animation speed etc. or combinations thereof may represent one or more of the following alerts or notifications provided a hazard detector booting up selecting language ready for connections connected to client button pressed button pressed for test countdown to test test under way test completed pre alarms smoke alarms carbon monoxide alarms heat alarms multi criteria alarms hushed after alarm post alarm problems night light state reset shutdown begin shutdown safely light battery very low battery critical power confirmation and more. By way of example and not by way of limitation illustrate an exemplary visual vocabulary for visual effects and colors that may be used by embodiments of hazard detectors.

In some embodiments color definitions animation definitions and speed definitions may be used independently to select a color animation and speed by the hazard detector based on a status check of the hazard detector. A look up may be performed using color definitions animation definitions and speed definitions to select a color animation and speed that corresponds to the status determined by the hazard detector. The color animation and or speed selected from color definitions animation definitions and or speed definitions may be used by the hazard detector to output a status via a light of the hazard detector.

As can be seen in embodiment it may be difficult for user to physically reach hazard detector . As such for user to efficiently provide input to hazard detector a gesture may be preferable to allow a user to provide input without having to physically contact hazard detector . Hazard detector may have a lens that targets motion detection to a conical region beneath hazard detector . Such targeting of gesture and motion detection may be preferable to avoid stray motions being interpreted as a gesture.

Hazard detectors and other devices as detailed herein may be installed in a smart home environment. illustrates an example of a smart home environment within which one or more of the devices methods systems services and or computer program products described further herein can be applicable such as the hazard detectors detailed in relation to . The depicted smart home environment includes a structure which can include e.g. a house office building garage or mobile home. It will be appreciated that devices can also be integrated into a smart home environment that does not include an entire structure such as an apartment condominium or office space. Further the smart home environment can control and or be coupled to devices outside of the actual structure . Indeed several devices in the smart home environment need not physically be within the structure at all. For example a device controlling a pool heater or irrigation system can be located outside of the structure .

The depicted structure includes a plurality of rooms separated at least partly from each other via walls . The walls can include interior walls or exterior walls. Each room can further include a floor and a ceiling . Devices can be mounted on integrated with and or supported by a wall floor or ceiling .

In some embodiments the smart home environment of includes a plurality of devices including intelligent multi sensing network connected devices that can integrate seamlessly with each other and or with a central server or a cloud computing system to provide any of a variety of useful smart home objectives. The smart home environment may include one or more intelligent multi sensing network connected thermostats hereinafter referred to as smart thermostats one or more intelligent network connected hazard detectors and one or more intelligent multi sensing network connected entryway interface devices hereinafter referred to as smart doorbells . According to embodiments the smart thermostat detects ambient climate characteristics e.g. temperature and or humidity and controls a HVAC system accordingly. The hazard detector may detect the presence of a hazardous substance or a substance indicative of a hazardous substance e.g. smoke fire or carbon monoxide . The smart doorbell may detect a person s approach to or departure from a location e.g. an outer door control doorbell functionality announce a person s approach or departure via audio or visual means or control settings on a security system e.g. to activate or deactivate the security system when occupants go and come .

In some embodiments the smart home environment of further includes one or more intelligent multi sensing network connected wall switches hereinafter referred to as smart wall switches along with one or more intelligent multi sensing network connected wall plug interfaces hereinafter referred to as smart wall plugs . The smart wall switches may detect ambient lighting conditions detect room occupancy states and control a power and or dim state of one or more lights. In some instances smart wall switches may also control a power state or speed of a fan such as a ceiling fan. The smart wall plugs may detect occupancy of a room or enclosure and control supply of power to one or more wall plugs e.g. such that power is not supplied to the plug if nobody is at home .

Still further in some embodiments the smart home environment of includes a plurality of intelligent multi sensing network connected appliances hereinafter referred to as smart appliances such as refrigerators stoves and or ovens televisions washers dryers lights stereos intercom systems garage door openers floor fans ceiling fans wall air conditioners pool heaters irrigation systems security systems and so forth. According to embodiments the network connected appliances are made compatible with the smart home environment by cooperating with the respective manufacturers of the appliances. For example the appliances can be space heaters window AC units motorized duct vents etc. When plugged in an appliance can announce itself to the smart home network such as by indicating what type of appliance it is and it can automatically integrate with the controls of the smart home. Such communication by the appliance to the smart home can be facilitated by any wired or wireless communication protocols known by those having ordinary skill in the art. The smart home also can include a variety of non communicating legacy appliances such as old conventional washer dryers refrigerators and the like which can be controlled albeit coarsely ON OFF by virtue of the smart wall plugs . The smart home environment can further include a variety of partially communicating legacy appliances such as infrared IR controlled wall air conditioners or other IR controlled devices which can be controlled by IR signals provided by the hazard detectors or the smart wall switches .

According to embodiments the smart thermostats the hazard detectors the smart doorbells the smart wall switches the smart wall plugs and other devices of the smart home environment are modular and can be incorporated into older and new houses. For example the devices are designed around a modular platform consisting of two basic components a head unit and a back plate which is also referred to as a docking station. Multiple configurations of the docking station are provided so as to be compatible with any home such as older and newer homes. However all of the docking stations include a standard head connection arrangement such that any head unit can be removably attached to any docking station. Thus in some embodiments the docking stations are interfaces that serve as physical connections to the structure and the voltage wiring of the homes and the interchangeable head units contain all of the sensors processors user interfaces the batteries and other functional components of the devices.

The smart home environment may also include communication with devices outside of the physical home but within a proximate geographical range of the home. For example the smart home environment may include a pool heater monitor that communicates a current pool temperature to other devices within the smart home environment or receives commands for controlling the pool temperature. Similarly the smart home environment may include an irrigation monitor that communicates information regarding irrigation systems within the smart home environment and or receives control information for controlling such irrigation systems. According to embodiments an algorithm is provided for considering the geographic location of the smart home environment such as based on the zip code or geographic coordinates of the home. The geographic information is then used to obtain data helpful for determining optimal times for watering such data may include sun location information temperature due point soil type of the land on which the home is located etc.

By virtue of network connectivity one or more of the smart home devices of can further allow a user to interact with the device even if the user is not proximate to the device. For example a user can communicate with a device using a computer e.g. a desktop computer laptop computer or tablet or other portable electronic device e.g. a smartphone . A webpage or app can be configured to receive communications from the user and control the device based on the communications and or to present information about the device s operation to the user. For example the user can view a current setpoint temperature for a device and adjust it using a computer. The user can be in the structure during this remote communication or outside the structure.

As discussed users can control and interact with the smart thermostat hazard detectors and other smart devices in the smart home environment using a network connected computer or portable electronic device . In some examples some or all of the occupants e.g. individuals who live in the home can register their electronic device with the smart home environment . Such registration can be made at a central server to authenticate the occupant and or the device as being associated with the home and to give permission to the occupant to use the device to control the smart devices in the home. An occupant can use their registered electronic device to remotely control the smart devices of the home such as when the occupant is at work or on vacation. The occupant may also use their registered device to control the smart devices when the occupant is actually located inside the home such as when the occupant is sitting on a couch inside the home. It should be appreciated that instead of or in addition to registering electronic devices the smart home environment makes inferences about which individuals live in the home and are therefore occupants and which electronic devices are associated with those individuals. As such the smart home environment learns who is an occupant and permits the electronic devices associated with those individuals to control the smart devices of the home.

In some embodiments in addition to containing processing and sensing capabilities each of the devices and collectively referred to as the smart devices is capable of data communications and information sharing with any other of the smart devices as well as to any central server or cloud computing system or any other device that is network connected anywhere in the world. The required data communications can be carried out using one or more of a variety of custom or standard wireless protocols e.g. cellular 3G 4G Wi Fi ZigBee 6LoWPAN BLE etc. and or any of a variety of custom or standard wired protocols CAT6 Ethernet HomePlug etc. . One particularly useful protocol that can be used is the Thread protocol which is promulgated by the Thread Group and based on 802.15.4 IETF IPv6 and 6LoWPAN. For some embodiments devices that are powered by the household mains current either directly or through an AC power adapter can be provided with a combination of Wi Fi which can be relatively power intensive along with one or more lower power protocols such as Thread and or BLE. In contrast devices that are power constrained in that they are not powered by the household mains current and do not have access to a high capacity battery source are provided only with one or more low power protocols such as Thread and or BLE. In some cases devices that are not powered by the household mains current but do have access to a reasonably high capacity battery source can be provided with a combination of Wi Fi and one or more lower power protocols such as Thread and or BLE with the Wi Fi communications being controlled to be temporally restricted such as being turned on only during brief periodic time intervals e.g. once per day to upload logs and receive updates from the cloud during particular device sensed events or when the user has physically actuated the device such as by pressing a button on the device. The hazard detectors described herein can be provided in two different SKUs one SKU being mains powered with battery backup and the other SKU being battery only albeit with a relatively large battery source e.g. six lithium AA cells . For this battery only SKU the hazard detector is preferably provided with a combination of the temporally restricted Wi Fi and one or more lower power protocols such as Thread and or BLE.

According to embodiments all or some of the smart devices can serve as wireless or wired repeaters. For example a first one of the smart devices can communicate with a second one of the smart devices via a wireless router . The smart devices can further communicate with each other via a connection to a network such as the Internet . Through the Internet the smart devices can communicate with a cloud computing system which can include one or more centralized or distributed server systems. The cloud computing system can be associated with a manufacturer support entity or service provider associated with the device. For one embodiment a user may be able to contact customer support using a device itself rather than needing to use other communication means such as a telephone or Internet connected computer. Further software updates can be automatically sent from cloud computing system to devices e.g. when available when purchased or at routine intervals .

According to embodiments the smart devices combine to create a mesh network of spokesman and low power nodes in the smart home environment where some of the smart devices are spokesman nodes and others are low powered nodes. Some of the smart devices in the smart home environment are battery powered while others have a regular and reliable power source such as by connecting to wiring e.g. to 120V line voltage wires behind the walls of the smart home environment. The smart devices that have a regular and reliable power source are referred to as spokesman nodes. These nodes are equipped with the capability of using any wireless protocol or manner to facilitate bidirectional communication with any of a variety of other devices in the smart home environment as well as with the cloud computing system . On the other hand the devices that are battery powered are referred to as low power nodes. These nodes tend to be smaller than spokesman nodes and can only communicate using wireless protocols that require very little power such as Zigbee 6LoWPAN etc. Further some but not all low power nodes are incapable of bidirectional communication. These low power nodes send messages but they are unable to listen . Thus other devices in the smart home environment such as the spokesman nodes cannot send information to these low power nodes.

As described the smart devices serve as low power and spokesman nodes to create a mesh network in the smart home environment . Individual low power nodes in the smart home environment regularly send out messages regarding what they are sensing and the other low powered nodes in the smart home environment in addition to sending out their own messages repeat the messages thereby causing the messages to travel from node to node i.e. device to device throughout the smart home environment . The spokesman nodes in the smart home environment are able to drop down to low powered communication protocols to receive these messages translate the messages to other communication protocols and send the translated messages to other spokesman nodes and or cloud computing system . Thus the low powered nodes using low power communication protocols are able to send messages across the entire smart home environment as well as over the Internet to cloud computing system . According to embodiments the mesh network enables cloud computing system to regularly receive data from all of the smart devices in the home make inferences based on the data and send commands back to one of the smart devices to accomplish some of the smart home objectives described herein.

As described the spokesman nodes and some of the low powered nodes are capable of listening. Accordingly users other devices and cloud computing system can communicate controls to the low powered nodes. For example a user can use the portable electronic device e.g. a smartphone to send commands over the Internet to cloud computing system which then relays the commands to the spokesman nodes in the smart home environment . The spokesman nodes drop down to a low power protocol to communicate the commands to the low power nodes throughout the smart home environment as well as to other spokesman nodes that did not receive the commands directly from the cloud computing system .

An example of a low power node is a smart nightlight . In addition to housing a light source the smart nightlight houses an occupancy sensor such as an ultrasonic or passive IR sensor and an ambient light sensor such as a photoresistor or a single pixel sensor that measures light in the room. In some embodiments the smart nightlight is configured to activate the light source when its ambient light sensor detects that the room is dark and when its occupancy sensor detects that someone is in the room. In other embodiments the smart nightlight is simply configured to activate the light source when its ambient light sensor detects that the room is dark. Further according to embodiments the smart nightlight includes a low power wireless communication chip e.g. ZigBee chip that regularly sends out messages regarding the occupancy of the room and the amount of light in the room including instantaneous messages coincident with the occupancy sensor detecting the presence of a person in the room. As mentioned above these messages may be sent wirelessly using the mesh network from node to node i.e. smart device to smart device within the smart home environment as well as over the Internet to cloud computing system .

Other examples of low powered nodes include battery operated versions of the hazard detectors . These hazard detectors are often located in an area without access to constant and reliable e.g. structural power and as discussed in detail below may include any number and type of sensors such as smoke fire heat sensors carbon monoxide dioxide sensors occupancy motion sensors ambient light sensors temperature sensors humidity sensors and the like. Furthermore hazard detectors can send messages that correspond to each of the respective sensors to the other devices and cloud computing system such as by using the mesh network as described above.

Examples of spokesman nodes include smart doorbells smart thermostats smart wall switches and smart wall plugs . These devices and are often located near and connected to a reliable power source and therefore can include more power consuming components such as one or more communication chips capable of bidirectional communication in any variety of protocols.

In some embodiments the mesh network of low powered and spokesman nodes can be used to provide exit lighting in the event of an emergency. In some instances to facilitate this users provide pre configuration information that indicates exit routes in the smart home environment . For example for each room in the house the user provides a map of the best exit route. It should be appreciated that instead of a user providing this information cloud computing system or some other device could automatically determine the routes using uploaded maps diagrams architectural drawings of the smart home house as well as using a map generated based on positional information obtained from the nodes of the mesh network e.g. positional information from the devices is used to construct a map of the house . In operation when an alarm is activated e.g. when one or more of the hazard detector detects smoke and activates an alarm cloud computing system or some other device uses occupancy information obtained from the low powered and spokesman nodes to determine which rooms are occupied and then turns on lights e.g. smart nightlights wall switches smart wall plugs that power lamps etc. along the exit routes from the occupied rooms so as to provide emergency exit lighting.

Further included and illustrated in the exemplary smart home environment of are service robots each configured to carry out in an autonomous manner any of a variety of household tasks. For some embodiments the service robots can be respectively configured to perform floor sweeping floor washing etc. in a manner similar to that of known commercially available devices such as the Roomba and Scooba products sold by iRobot Inc. of Bedford Mass. Tasks such as floor sweeping and floor washing can be considered as away or while away tasks for purposes of the instant description as it is generally more desirable for these tasks to be performed when the occupants are not present. For other embodiments one or more of the service robots are configured to perform tasks such as playing music for an occupant serving as a localized thermostat for an occupant serving as a localized air monitor purifier for an occupant serving as a localized baby monitor serving as a localized hazard detector for an occupant and so forth it being generally more desirable for such tasks to be carried out in the immediate presence of the human occupant. For purposes of the instant description such tasks can be considered as human facing or human centric tasks.

When serving as a localized air monitor purifier for an occupant a particular service robot can be considered to be facilitating what can be called a personal health area network for the occupant with the objective being to keep the air quality in the occupant s immediate space at healthy levels. Alternatively or in conjunction therewith other health related functions can be provided such as monitoring the temperature or heart rate of the occupant e.g. using finely remote sensors near field communication with on person monitors etc. . When serving as a localized hazard detector for an occupant a particular service robot can be considered to be facilitating what can be called a personal safety area network for the occupant with the objective being to ensure there is no excessive carbon monoxide smoke fire etc. in the immediate space of the occupant. Methods analogous to those described above for personal comfort area networks in terms of occupant identifying and tracking are likewise applicable for personal health area network and personal safety area network embodiments.

According to some embodiments the above referenced facilitation of personal comfort area networks personal health area networks personal safety area networks and or other such human facing functionalities of the service robots are further enhanced by logical integration with other smart sensors in the home according to rules based inferencing techniques or artificial intelligence techniques for achieving better performance of those human facing functionalities and or for achieving those goals in energy conserving or other resource conserving ways. Thus for one embodiment relating to personal health area networks the air monitor purifier service robot can be configured to detect whether a household pet is moving toward the currently settled location of the occupant e.g. using on board sensors and or by data communications with other smart home sensors along with rules based inferencing artificial intelligence techniques and if so the air purifying rate is immediately increased in preparation for the arrival of more airborne pet dander. For another embodiment relating to personal safety area networks the hazard detector service robot can be advised by other smart home sensors that the temperature and humidity levels are rising in the kitchen which is nearby the occupant s current dining room location and responsive to this advisory the hazard detector service robot will temporarily raise a hazard detection threshold such as a smoke detection threshold under an inference that any small increases in ambient smoke levels will most likely be due to cooking activity and not due to a genuinely hazardous condition.

According to one embodiment the user can be provided with a suite of related smart home devices such as may be provided by a common manufacturer or group or badged to work with a common ecosystem of that manufacturer or group wherein each of the devices where practicable provides a same or similarly triggered illumination based notification scheme and theme such that the user can be readily familiar with the status signals emitted by the variety of different devices without needing to learn a different scheme for each device. Thus by way of example there can be provided a suite of devices including a security automation hub multiple door window sensors and multiple hazard detectors wherein each such device has a circular illumination ring that conveys triggered visual information according to the themes and schemes described herein.

Although in some examples provided herein the devices and services platform A communicates with and collects data from the smart devices of smart home environment of it should be appreciated that the devices and services platform A communicates with and collects data from a plurality of smart home environments across the world. For example cloud computing system can collect home data from the devices of one or more smart home environments where the devices can routinely transmit home data or can transmit home data in specific instances e.g. when a device queries the home data . Thus the devices and services platform A routinely collects data from homes across the world. As described the collected home data includes for example power consumption data occupancy data HVAC settings and usage data carbon monoxide levels data carbon dioxide levels data volatile organic compounds levels data sleeping schedule data cooking schedule data inside and outside temperature humidity data television viewership data inside and outside noise level data etc.

Cloud computing system can further provide one or more services . The services can include e.g. software updates customer support sensor data collection logging remote access remote or distributed control or use suggestions e.g. based on collected home data to improve performance reduce utility cost etc. . Data associated with the services can be stored at cloud computing system and cloud computing system can retrieve and transmit the data at an appropriate time e.g. at regular intervals upon receiving a request from a user etc. .

As part of services user accounts may be maintained by the cloud computing system . The user account may store subscription information billing information registration information user preferences and or other data associated with various smart home devices such as one or more hazard detectors installed within a structure that is linked with a user account. Occasionally attention of a user to his or her user account may be requested. In response to a query from hazard detector or other smart home device a message may be transmitted by the cloud computing system to hazard detector which may represent any of the previously described hazard detectors indicating that a status output by hazard detector should indicate that a user is requested to log in to his or her user account. Further detail regarding the requested log may be transmitted by service to hazard detector . For instance the reason for the requested login may be expired payment information such as an expired credit card . The user can request detail on a status output by hazard detector which may be presented to the user as a color and animation output via a light of hazard detector . The request for detail may be by performing a gesture within the vicinity of hazard detector . A spoken message may then be output by hazard detector indicating that the user is requested to log in to his account and may also indicate the reason of the payment information needing to be updated. As such a status check performed by hazard detector may not only check the status of hazard detector itself but also the state of a remotely maintained user account.

As illustrated in an embodiment of the extensible devices and services platform A includes a processing engine which can be concentrated at a single server or distributed among several different computing entities without limitation. The processing engine can include computerized engines e.g. software executed by hardware configured to receive data from devices of smart home environments e.g. via the Internet or a hubbed network to index the data to analyze the data and or to generate statistics based on the analysis or as part of the analysis. The analyzed data can be stored as derived home data .

Results of the analysis or statistics can thereafter be transmitted back to the device that provided home data used to derive the results to other devices to a server providing a webpage to a user of the device or to other non device entities. For example use statistics use statistics relative to use of other devices use patterns and or statistics summarizing sensor readings can be generated by the processing engine and transmitted. The results or statistics can be provided via the Internet . In this manner the processing engine can be configured and programmed to derive a variety of useful information from the home data . A single server can include one or more engines.

In some embodiments to encourage innovation and research and to increase products and services available to users the devices and services platform A exposes a range of application programming interfaces APIs to third parties such as charities governmental entities e.g. the Food and Drug Administration or the Environmental Protection Agency academic institutions e.g. university researchers businesses e.g. providing device warranties or service to related equipment targeting advertisements based on home data utility companies and other third parties. The APIs may be coupled to and permit third party systems to communicate with cloud computing system including the services the processing engine the home data and the derived home data . For example the APIs allow applications executed by the third parties to initiate specific data processing tasks that are executed by cloud computing system as well as to receive dynamic updates to the home data and the derived home data .

Account alert engine may serve to determine whether a hazard detector should provide an indication that the user s account requires attention. For instance account alert engine may periodically assess the state of a user s account such as whether settings need updating whether payment information is up to date whether one or more messages are pending whether payment is due etc. If user attention is required upon a request being received from a hazard detector and a look up of the user s account being performed account alert engine may respond with an indication that the user account requires attention. Additional detail may also be provided such that if the user performs a gesture or otherwise requests additional detail such detail can be provided such as via an auditory message. If user attention is not required upon a request being received from a hazard detector and a look up of the user s account being performed e.g. by determining an account associated with the hazard detector from which the request was received account alert engine may respond with an indication that the user account does not require attention.

For example shows processing engine as including a number of paradigms . Processing engine can include a managed services paradigm that monitors and manages primary or secondary device functions. The device functions can include ensuring proper operation of a device given user inputs estimating that e.g. and responding to an instance in which an intruder is or is attempting to be in a dwelling detecting a failure of equipment coupled to the device e.g. a light bulb having burned out implementing or otherwise responding to energy demand response events or alerting a user of a current or predicted future event or characteristic. Processing engine can further include an advertising communication paradigm that estimates characteristics e.g. demographic information desires and or products of interest of a user based on device usage. Services promotions products or upgrades can then be offered or automatically provided to the user. Processing engine can further include a social paradigm that uses information from a social network provides information to a social network for example based on device usage and or processes data associated with user and or device interactions with the social network platform. For example a user s status as reported to their trusted contacts on the social network could be updated to indicate when they are home based on light detection security system inactivation or device usage detectors. As another example a user may be able to share device usage statistics with other users. In yet another example a user may share HVAC settings that result in low power bills and other users may download the HVAC settings to their smart thermostat to reduce their power bills.

The processing engine can include a challenges rules compliance rewards paradigm that informs a user of challenges competitions rules compliance regulations and or rewards and or that uses operation data to determine whether a challenge has been met a rule or regulation has been complied with and or a reward has been earned. The challenges rules or regulations can relate to efforts to conserve energy to live safely e.g. reducing exposure to toxins or carcinogens to conserve money and or equipment life to improve health etc. For example one challenge may involve participants turning down their thermostat by one degree for one week. Those that successfully complete the challenge are rewarded such as by coupons virtual currency status etc. Regarding compliance an example involves a rental property owner making a rule that no renters are permitted to access certain owner s rooms. The devices in the room having occupancy sensors could send updates to the owner when the room is accessed.

The processing engine can integrate or otherwise utilize extrinsic information from extrinsic sources to improve the functioning of one or more processing paradigms. Extrinsic information can be used to interpret data received from a device to determine a characteristic of the environment near the device e.g. outside a structure that the device is enclosed in to determine services or products available to the user to identify a social network or social network information to determine contact information of entities e.g. public service entities such as an emergency response team the police or a hospital near the device etc. to identify statistical or environmental conditions trends or other information associated with a home or neighborhood and so forth.

An extraordinary range and variety of benefits can be brought about by and fit within the scope of the described extensible devices and services platform A ranging from the ordinary to the profound. Thus in one ordinary example each bedroom of the smart home environment can be provided with a smart wall switch a smart wall plug and or smart hazard detectors all or some of which include an occupancy sensor wherein the occupancy sensor is also capable of inferring e.g. by virtue of motion detection facial recognition audible sound patterns etc. whether the occupant is asleep or awake. If a serious fire event is sensed the remote security monitoring service or fire department is advised of how many occupants there are in each bedroom and whether those occupants are still asleep or immobile or whether they have properly evacuated the bedroom. While this is of course a very advantageous capability accommodated by the described extensible devices and services platform there can be substantially more profound examples that can truly illustrate the potential of a larger intelligence that can be made available. By way of perhaps a more profound example the same bedroom occupancy data that is being used for fire safety can also be repurposed by the processing engine in the context of a social paradigm of neighborhood child development and education. Thus for example the same bedroom occupancy and motion data discussed in the ordinary example can be collected and made available properly anonymized for processing in which the sleep patterns of schoolchildren in a particular ZIP code can be identified and tracked. Localized variations in the sleeping patterns of the schoolchildren may be identified and correlated for example to different nutrition programs in local schools.

Various methods may be performed using the systems devices and other embodiments detailed in relation to . For instance methods may be performed by the hazard detectors detailed in relation to . illustrates an embodiment of a method for outputting a status of a hazard detector. Method represents various blocks which may be performed by a hazard detector such as the hazard detector and or other devices detailed in relation to .

At block a lighting condition in the ambient environment of a hazard detector may be analyzed. Such analysis may include the collection of one or more measurements of a brightness level in the ambient environment of the hazard detector. A hazard detector may have one or more onboard light sensors that detect a level of brightness in the ambient environment of the hazard detector. The lighting condition in the ambient environment of the hazard detector may be affected by artificial lighting and or natural lighting. An indication of the lighting condition may be provided by the one or more light sensors of the hazard detector to a processing system which may include one or more processors of the hazard detector. In some embodiments the lighting condition in the ambient environment of the hazard detector may be analyzed directly by the lighting sensor such as via an integrated processor. Means for performing block may generally include a hazard detector. More specifically means for performing block may include one or more processing devices such as processors and one or more light sensors.

At block the lighting condition analyzed at block may be compared with a threshold brightness level value stored by the hazard detector. This comparison may be used to determine that the lighting condition is indicative of a brightness level in the ambient environment that has reached the threshold brightness level. In some embodiments the determination of block may involve determining that the brightness level in the ambient environment of the hazard detector has decreased to or fallen below the threshold brightness level. As such in some embodiments block can be understood as determining that a falling edge of brightness within the ambient environment of the hazard detector has met the threshold brightness level. Means for performing block may generally include a hazard detector. More specifically means for performing block may include one or more processing devices such as processors and a storage medium such as to store the threshold brightness level.

At block a status check of one or more components of the hazard detector may be performed. In some embodiments the status check performed as part of block is performed in response to block that is the status check can be performed in response to determining that the lighting condition is indicative of the brightness level in the ambient environment of the hazard detector falling to the threshold brightness level. In other embodiments the status check is performed independent of block that is the status check is not dependent on determining that the lighting condition in the ambient environment of the hazard detector has reached the threshold brightness level. The status check performed at block may involving checking a status one or more components of the hazard detector. For instance the status check may check a battery charge level of the hazard detector. The battery charge level may be compared to multiple threshold voltage levels. Such multiple levels may be used to assess whether the battery has a sufficient charge level the battery charge level is low but does not need replacement yet or the battery needs replacement immediately. The status check may check the functionality of one or more sensors of the hazard detector such as a smoke sensor and or a carbon monoxide sensor. In some embodiments the status check involves checking an expiration date of one or more sensors of the hazard detector and or of the hazard detector itself. For instance smoke detectors and or carbon monoxide detectors may be required by law to expire after a predefined amount of time such as seven years. The status check of block may involve determining whether a structure power source if installed and connected is providing power. The status check of block may involve checking the status of a user account maintained remotely from the hazard detector. This may involve transmitting a request to a remote server such as detailed in relation to to determine the status of the user account. If the user account requires attention the hazard detector may receive a message indicating as such possibly with one or more details about the nature of the status in response to the transmitted request. The status check performed at block may check whether a test of the hazard detector has been performed within a predefined amount of time. For instance it may be desirable to provide a user with a warning if it has been more than some amount of time such as a week a month since a user last performed a test of the hazard detector e.g. test that the audible alarms sound . A test may be different from status check in that a test may audibly sound one or more alarms of the hazard detector and or may test the functionality of one or more sensors present on the hazard detector. Means for performing block may generally include a hazard detector. More specifically means for performing block may include one or more processing devices such as processors and one or more components to be tested such as one or more instances of the various components detailed in relation to hazard detector . Means for performing block may further include a remote server and one or more networks to communicate with the remote server.

At block an illumination state that is based on the status check may be selected. The illumination state may include one or more colors an animation and or speed to illuminate a light of the hazard detector. As previously detailed the light may include one or more lighting elements such as LEDs. Such an arrangement may permit animations and multiple colors to be presented by the light simultaneously. A lookup table or other storage arrangement of definitions of illumination states associated with results of status checks may be stored by the hazard detector. For example lookup tables corresponding to may be used to determine the appropriate illumination state to be presented by the hazard detector in response to a status check. Similarly information presented in such lookup tables may be provided to users such as in the form of the user manual or quick reference guide such to allow the user to interpret the various illumination states. The result of the status check performed at block may be used to determine the proper illumination state to be selected at block . Means for performing block may generally include a hazard detector. More specifically means for performing block may include one or more processing devices such as processors and a storage medium such as to store the definitions of various illumination states.

At block the light of the hazard detector may be illuminated based on the illumination state selected at block . In some embodiments the performance of block is contingent on block . That is while the status check performed at block may not be contingent on determining that the lighting condition in the ambient environment of the hazard detector has reached the threshold brightness level illumination of the light using the illumination state indicative of the results of the status check may be based on the lighting condition in the ambient environment of the hazard detector reaching the threshold brightness level. Stated another way the brightness level in the ambient environment of the hazard detector may be used to determine when to present the results of the status check but not when to perform the status check. In other embodiments such as embodiments in which the status check of block is performed in response to block the illumination of block may occur in response to blocks and being performed.

The illumination of block may occur for a predefined period of time. For example the light may be illuminated for periods of time ranging from 1 to 5 seconds or some other period of time. In some embodiments the light fades on for one second presents an illumination state for one second then fades off for one second. It should be understood that by waiting for the lighting condition in the ambient environment of the hazard detector to decrease to the threshold brightness level a user may be more likely to view the illumination state at block because the ambient environment of the hazard detector is darkened as compared to a previous lighting condition of the ambient environment . As an example a likely situation where a user may view the illuminated light at block is when shutting off an artificial light source in a room in which the hazard detector is located. The light may be more likely to illuminate at night if natural light enters the room by day. Therefore the user may typically view the illumination indicative of the status test in the evening when shutting off an artificial light. Means for performing block may generally include a hazard detector. More specifically means for performing block may include one or more processing devices such as processors and one or more lights which may each include one or more lighting elements.

Blocks and may be performed similarly to blocks and of method respectively. Means for performing such blocks may generally include a hazard detector. More specifically means for performing such blocks may include one or more processing devices such as processors one or more light sensors and one or more storage mediums.

At block a determination may be made as to whether at least a threshold period of time has elapsed since a previous status check a previous illumination of a light of the hazard detector indicative of the status and or a previous determination that the lighting condition is indicative of a brightness level in the ambient environment of the hazard detector dropping below a threshold brightness level. Block may be used to ensure that status checks or the output of illumination states indicative of the result of status checks do not occur overly frequently. For example it may be desired that the threshold period of time be one month one week one day ten hours five hours an hour ten minutes one minute or some other period of time between the listed periods of time. In a likely situation it may be desirable for a status check to be performed and or the result of the status check to presented once per day. Such a restriction may help preserve battery charge and or prevent a user from being annoyed by overly frequently presented statuses. Means for performing block may generally include a hazard detector. More specifically means for performing block may include one or more processing devices such as a processor and one or more storage mediums.

At block the status check may be performed. The status check of block may be performed similarly to block of method . If performance of the status check is contingent on the lighting condition indicative of the brightness level in the ambient environment falling to a threshold brightness level the performance of the status check may be additionally contingent on block determining that at least the threshold period of time has elapsed since the previous status check. Means for performing block may generally include a hazard detector. More specifically means for performing block may include one or more processing devices such as processors and one or more components to be tested such as one or more instances of the various components detailed in relation to hazard detector of .

At block the hazard detector may transmit a message to a remote server to check a status of an account held by a user the hazard detector having previously been added to and linked with a user account. For instance the user account may be used to manage multiple smart home devices including the hazard detector that are installed within a particular home or other form of structure. The message may be sent to the remote server roughly periodically e.g. once per day once per week or may occur in response to a condition occurring such as block being performed block being performed and or block being performed. In response to the message the remote server which may be part of cloud computing system of may check the status of the user account associated with the hazard detector. Checking the status of the user account may include checking if the last login by the user was within a predefined period of time checking if any messages are pending for viewing by the user checking if the user s payment information is valid checking if any offers are waiting for review by the user checking if any settings or preferences require the user s attention checking if a new end user agreement or other document needs to be reviewed by the user and or checking if any other form of matter requires the user s attention. In some embodiments the remote server may occasionally push a status of the user s account to the hazard detector without receiving a request from the hazard detector. Means for performing block may generally include a hazard detector. More specifically means for performing block may include one or more processing devices such as processors a wireless communication module one or more networks and or a remote server.

At block an illumination state may be selected based on the status check of block and the account status retrieved at block . The illumination state may include one or more colors an animation and or speed to illuminate a light of the hazard detector. As previously detailed the light may include one or more lighting elements such as LEDs. Such an arrangement may permit animations and multiple colors to be presented by the light simultaneously. A lookup table or other storage arrangement of definitions of illumination states associated with results of status checks may be stored by the hazard detector. For example lookup tables corresponding to may be used to determine the appropriate illumination state to be presented by the hazard detector in response to a status check. Similarly information presented in such lookup tables may be provided to user such as in the form of the user manual or quick reference guide such to allow the user to interpret the illumination state. The result of the status check performed at block and the account status of block may be used to determine the proper illumination state to be selected at block . Means for performing block may generally include a hazard detector. More specifically means for performing block may include one or more processing devices such as processors and a storage medium such as to store the definitions of various illumination states.

At block the light may be illuminated according to the illumination state selected at block . In some embodiments the performance of block is contingent on the determinations of blocks and . That is while the status check performed at block may not be contingent on determining that the lighting condition in the ambient environment of the hazard detector has reached the threshold brightness level or that the predefined period of time has elapsed illumination of the light using the illumination state indicative of the results of the status check and or account status may be based on the lighting condition in the ambient environment of the hazard detector reaching the threshold brightness level and the threshold period of time having elapsed. Stated another way the brightness level in the ambient environment of the hazard detector and the predefined period of time having elapsed may be used to determine when to present the results of the status check which may include the account status check but not when to perform the status check. In other embodiments block may be performed in response to blocks and or being completed. Means for performing block may generally include a hazard detector. More specifically means for performing block may include one or more processing devices such as processors and one or more lights which may each include one or more lighting elements.

While methods and of respectively are focused on hazard detectors such methods may be applied to devices and systems other than hazard detectors. illustrates an embodiment of a method for performing a function in response to an unrelated environmental characteristic. Method represents various blocks which may be performed by a system or device which may or may not be a hazard detector. For example the device or system may be a device configured to sense or monitor a situation such as temperature humidity motion etc. Each block of method may be performed by such a device.

At block an environment may be monitored for the presence of a trigger event. The environment may be monitored in the vicinity of the device performing method . For instance the device may have one or more sensors installed that are configured to measure a characteristic present in the environment. This collected data may be monitored for the stored predefined trigger event. Examples include monitoring for a temperature monitoring for a humidity monitoring for a brightness monitoring for motion etc. In some embodiments the trigger event may be received from a remote device or system such as via a wireless network connection. Means for performing block may generally include a device or system such as in . More specifically means for performing block may include one or more processing devices such as processors and an event detection module which may include one or more types of sensors.

At block a predefined trigger event may be determined to have occurred in the environment. Monitoring the environment at block may have resulted in data being gathered that indicates the predefined trigger event of which a definition is stored by the system is determined to have occurred. Examples include the monitored temperature having reached a threshold temperature the monitored humidity having reached a humidity threshold the monitored brightness having reached a brightness threshold motion being determined to have occurred etc. Means for performing block may generally include a device or system such as in . More specifically means for performing block may include one or more processing devices such as processors an event detection module which may include one or more types of sensors and a processor readable medium to store a definition of the predefined trigger event.

At block a function may be performed. The function performed at block may be performed in response to the predefined trigger event determining to occurred. In other embodiments the function performed at block may occur according to a predefined schedule or contingent on the occurrence of some event other than the trigger event of block . Means for performing block may generally include a device or system such as in . More specifically means for performing block may include one or more processing devices such as processors and a function component which in some embodiments may be the one or more processing devices .

It should be understood that the function of block may be wholly unrelated to the trigger event of block . For instance the trigger event of block may be selected based on an event that will likely correspond to a time when a user desires to view a status of a function. For example the function of block may be a self test status check of the device performing method or some other form of function. The predefined trigger event for which the environment is monitored at block and which is determined to have occurred at block may be wholly unrelated to this self test and or status check. As such the trigger event may be selected based on its likely correlation to a time at which a user would desire information about the results of a function regardless of whether the function is performed in response to the trigger event or not.

At block an indication may be output based on the performed function. Output at block may be contingent on the predefined trigger event having occurred as determined at block . Accordingly an output that is based on the performed function may be output in response to the predefined trigger event having occurred which may be wholly unrelated to the function itself. An example of this may be seen in various embodiments of methods and . In some embodiments a status of a hazard detector is output in response to a lighting condition present in the environment of the hazard detector. Such a lighting condition may be wholly unrelated to the status of the hazard detector that is brightness may have no effect on the status . In other embodiments such as embodiments in which the function of block is performed in response to block block may be performed in response to block having been performed. The indication output at block may be indicative of a result of the function of block . The output of block may include light and or sound. For example the output may be a combination of a color of the light animation and or speed. Sound output may include a ring tone or spoken message. Other forms of output are of course possible such as vibration a printed message or a transmission of a wireless message. Means for performing block may generally include a device or system such as in . More specifically means for performing block may include one or more processing devices such as processors and an output module which in some embodiments may include a speaker and or a light which can have one or more lighting elements a vibration device a printer etc. .

Following any of methods through being performed it may be desirable to monitor for user input to determine if a user desires more information on a status or other information output by the hazard detector or other form of system or device. illustrates an embodiment of method for providing detail about a status in response to user input. Method may be performed by a hazard detector following performing one of methods through or some other method for outputting a condition or status of the hazard detector. Each block of method may be performed by a hazard detector.

Block may represent the conclusion of methods through . For instance block may represent block of method block of method and or block of method . Block may also represent some other indication of a status being output. For instance in some embodiments block may be performed without at least one of methods through being performed.

At block the hazard detector or other device may monitor for user input following the indication of the status being output at block . In some embodiments block may be triggered by some other condition occurring. For instance the lighting condition reaching a brightness level in the ambient environment of the hazard detector that matches or is below the threshold brightness level may serve as a trigger for block or block may trigger block . Monitoring for user input may include activating one or more sensors that are configured to monitor for user input. For example a motion sensor or similar component may be activated for block to monitor for a gesture being performed by user. Such a gesture may be one or multiple waves by a user. Such a sensor may only be enabled to monitor for the gesture for up to a predefined period of time in order to conserve power which may be especially useful in a battery powered device. If the user input is detected the sensor may be disabled because no immediate future user input needs to be monitored for. Means for performing block may generally include a hazard detector or other form of device . More specifically means for performing block may include one or more processing devices such as processors and one or more sensors such as a motion sensor.

Method may proceed to block if no user input is received at block . If user input is received at block method may proceed to block . For instance method may proceed to block if a user performs a wave gesture at block that is detected by the hazard detector. At block in response to user input being detected or otherwise received one or more details regarding the status previously output at block may be provided the one or more details provided at block may be provided via a different mode than the status of block . For example the status output at block may have been in the form of light such as the previously described colors animations and or speeds of lighting elements. The output of one or more status details of block may be via a different mode such as an audio based message. In some embodiments the one or more status details of block are output in the form of the spoken message. This may involve the hazard detector retrieving either from a local storage medium or from a remote server a recorded message to be played via a speaker to the user. While the detail is being output the status output at block may also be output such that the status is in the form of light and the detail is in the form of audio. Means for performing block may generally include a hazard detector or other form of device . More specifically means for performing block may include one or more processing devices such as processors and one or more audio output devices such as a speaker. It should be understood that the one or more status details output at block may be output in some format other than audio. For instance if the hazard detector has a screen a written message or graphical indicator may be presented in addition to or alternatively to an auditory message.

As an example at block a yellow illuminated status may be output to the user. The user may see the status in the form of a color and animation output by a light of a hazard detector and may understand that the hazard detector requires some form of attention however the user may be unsure exactly what aspect of the hazard detector requires attention. If the user does not wish to deal with the situation presently the user may simply not provide any input such as a gesture. However if the user is interested in learning one or more details as to what aspect of the hazard detector requires attention the user may provide input such as by pushing a button on the hazard detector or performing a gesture such as one or more wave gestures during the predefined period of time for which the hazard detector is monitoring for user input. In response to the user providing the input an auditory message containing one or more details about the status may be output by the hazard detector. For instance the message may state My battery is low. Please replace at your earliest convenience. Following such a message being output the user may understand the detailed aspect of the hazard detector that requires attention the battery needs to be replaced. It should be understood that the same indication of the status may be output for various conditions of the hazard detector. In some embodiments only by the user providing input in response to the status can the user learn precisely the aspect of the hazard detector that requires attention.

Regardless of whether user input was or was not received at block at block the hazard detector may continue to monitor for one or more hazards. Such hazards may include the monitoring for smoke and or carbon monoxide. Further monitoring for such hazards may occur throughout method . Regardless of the portion of method being performed a primary function of the hazard detector may be to continue to monitor for such hazards. As such if a hazard is detected at any point during method method may be interrupted and an appropriate alarm may sound. Means for performing block may generally include a hazard detector or other form of device . More specifically means for performing block may include one or more processing devices such as processors and one or more sensors such as smoke and or carbon monoxide sensors.

Block may represent the conclusion of methods through . Block may require that a light of the hazard detector be illuminated according to an illumination state the illumination state may be indicative of a status of the hazard detector. For instance block may represent block of method block of method and or block of method . Block may also represent some other indication of a status being output. For instance in some embodiments block may be performed without at least one of methods through being performed.

At block one or more motion detector sensors may be activated for up to a predefined period of time. In some embodiments the one or more motion detector sensors are continuously or at least already activated. Whether a motion detector needs to be activated at block may be dependent on whether the hazard detector is powered by a battery or via a structure power source. For instance if powered by a battery it may be desirable to conserve power such as to increase the longevity of the battery s life.

At block the hazard detector or other device may monitor for a gesture being performed by a user following the indication of the status being output at block . In some embodiments block may be triggered by some other condition occurring. For instance the lighting condition reaching e.g. decreasing to a brightness level in the ambient environment of the hazard detector that matches or is below the threshold brightness level may serve as a trigger for block . Monitoring for a gesture may include monitoring the output of the motion detection sensor for a specific gesture such as a wave gesture being performed once or more than once for instance multiple waves may be required . If the gesture is detected the sensor may be disabled because no immediate future user input needs to be monitored for. Means for performing block may generally include a hazard detector or other form of device . More specifically means for performing block may include one or more processing devices such as processors and one or more sensors such as a motion sensor.

At block it may be determined if the gesture which is being monitored at block has been performed. If not method may proceed to block . If the gesture has been determined to be performed method may proceed to block . Means for performing block may generally include a hazard detector or other form of device . More specifically means for performing block may include one or more processing devices such as processors.

Blocks and may be performed similarly to blocks and of method . As such if the gesture is detected the user is provided one or more details regarding the status of the hazard detector. If the gesture is not detected the hazard detector continues monitoring for hazards without outputting one or more status details.

At block a status check of one or more components of the hazard detector may be performed. In some embodiments the status check performed as part of block is performed in response to other blocks being performed such as block and thus block of method . Block may result in a similar analysis as is discussed in relation to block . The status check of block may be divided up into an analysis of critical and non critical status checks. Non critical status checks may include determining if the battery is below a first threshold charge level a message being present at a remote server in association with a user account linked with the hazard detector the hazard detector is disconnected from the Internet and was previously connected the hazard detector is disconnected from a structure s power supply and was previously connected and or some other problem occurred an alphanumeric code may be assigned to such other problems . Critical status checks may include determining if the hazard detector has expired determining if a hazard sensor has failed and or determining if the battery charge level is below a second threshold which is representative of a lower charge level than the first threshold associated with the non critical battery charge level .

If at block no status check results in a critical or non critical status having a negative result method may proceed to block . At this block a visual indication of there being no critical or non critical status may be output such as a green illumination of the light of the hazard detector using a calm animation such as a pulse animation. Following block the hazard detector may not monitor for user input such as a button press or gesture relevant to the status and may proceed to block to continue to monitor for hazards.

If at block a status check results in a critical or non critical status having a negative result e.g. a sensor fails the battery is low Internet connectivity is lost etc. method may proceed to block . At block if the status check resulted in a critical status method may proceed to block . At block an auditory warning status indicative of the critical status may be output. The auditory warning status may include a synthesized or recorded spoken message. The warning message may be accompanied by illumination of the hazard detector s light using a color indicative of a warning such as yellow. An animation such as a fast pulsing of the yellow light may be used to alert the user to the dangerous situation.

Returning to block if the status check resulted in a non critical status method may proceed to block . At block a purely visual warning status indicative of the non critical status may be output. The warning status may be illumination of the hazard detector s light using a color indicative of a warning such as yellow. An animation such as a slow pulsing of the yellow light may be used to alert the user to the quasi dangerous situation. To learn the exact non critical warning the user may be required to provide user input.

At block user input such as in the form of a button press of the hazard detector or actuation of some other physical device on the hazard detector or by a gesture being performed may be monitored for by the hazard detector for up to a predefined period of time. For example the hazard detector may monitor for input in response to the output status at blocks or for thirty seconds. If the user s presence is detected the light of the hazard detector may be lit to indicate such presence such as by illuminated or pulsing blue. At block it may be determined if input has been received. If no method may proceed to block . If yes block may be performed.

At block the critical and or non critical statuses may be output via an auditory message. Such a message may include recorded or synthesized speech being output by the hazard detector. If the status was non critical block may be the first time the status is output via audio. If the status is critical block may represent at least the second time the status is output via audio due to block . The auditory output may be accompanied by illumination of the hazard detector s light using a color indicative of a warning such as yellow. An animation such as a slow for non critical statuses or fast for critical statues pulsing of the yellow light may be used to alert the user to the statues. Following block method may return to block to see if any additional user input is received such as if the user wants the statuses to be repeated. Whether a gesture or a button push was performed by the user while block was being performed may alter how the hazard detector s light is lit at block . For instance if a button press was received at block the light may be lit blue and pulsed at a fast speed if a gesture was detected at block the light may output a yellow wave animation which may serve as an acknowledgement that the gesture was detected .

With reference to an embodiment of a special purpose computer system is shown. For example one or more intelligent components processing engine and components thereof may be a special purpose computer system . Such a special purpose computer system may be incorporated as part of a hazard detector and or any of the other computerized devices discussed herein such as a remote server smart thermostat or network. The above methods may be implemented by computer program products that direct a computer system to perform the actions of the above described methods and components. Each such computer program product may comprise sets of instructions codes embodied on a computer readable medium that direct the processor of a computer system to perform corresponding actions. The instructions may be configured to run in sequential order or in parallel such as under different processing threads or in a combination thereof. After loading the computer program products on a general purpose computer system it is transformed into the special purpose computer system .

Special purpose computer system comprises a computer a monitor coupled to computer one or more additional user output devices optional coupled to computer one or more user input devices e.g. keyboard mouse track ball touch screen coupled to computer an optional communications interface coupled to computer a computer program product stored in a tangible computer readable memory in computer . Computer program product directs computer system to perform the above described methods. Computer may include one or more processors that communicate with a number of peripheral devices via a bus subsystem . These peripheral devices may include user output device s user input device s communications interface and a storage subsystem such as random access memory RAM and non volatile storage drive e.g. disk drive optical drive solid state drive which are forms of tangible computer readable memory.

Computer program product may be stored in non volatile storage drive or another computer readable medium accessible to computer and loaded into random access memory RAM . Each processor may comprise a microprocessor such as a microprocessor from Intel or Advanced Micro Devices Inc. or the like. To support computer program product the computer runs an operating system that handles the communications of computer program product with the above noted components as well as the communications between the above noted components in support of the computer program product . Exemplary operating systems include Windows or the like from Microsoft Corporation Solaris from Sun Microsystems LINUX UNIX and the like.

User input devices include all possible types of devices and mechanisms to input information to computer . These may include a keyboard a keypad a mouse a scanner a digital drawing pad a touch screen incorporated into the display audio input devices such as voice recognition systems microphones and other types of input devices. In various embodiments user input devices are typically embodied as a computer mouse a trackball a track pad a joystick wireless remote a drawing tablet a voice command system. User input devices typically allow a user to select objects icons text and the like that appear on the monitor via a command such as a click of a button or the like. User output devices include all possible types of devices and mechanisms to output information from computer . These may include a display e.g. monitor printers non visual displays such as audio output devices etc.

Communications interface provides an interface to other communication networks such as communication network and devices and may serve as an interface to receive data from and transmit data to other systems WANs and or the Internet. Embodiments of communications interface typically include an Ethernet card a modem telephone satellite cable ISDN a asynchronous digital subscriber line DSL unit a FireWire interface a USB interface a wireless network adapter and the like. For example communications interface may be coupled to a computer network to a FireWire bus or the like. In other embodiments communications interface may be physically integrated on the motherboard of computer and or may be a software program or the like.

RAM and non volatile storage drive are examples of tangible computer readable media configured to store data such as computer program product embodiments of the present invention including executable computer code human readable code or the like. Other types of tangible computer readable media include floppy disks removable hard disks optical storage media such as CD ROMs DVDs bar codes semiconductor memories such as flash memories read only memories ROMs battery backed volatile memories networked storage devices and the like. RAM and non volatile storage drive may be configured to store the basic programming and data constructs that provide the functionality of various embodiments of the present invention as described above.

Software instruction sets that provide the functionality of the present invention may be stored in RAM and non volatile storage drive . These instruction sets or code may be executed by the processor s . RAM and non volatile storage drive may also provide a repository to store data and data structures used in accordance with the present invention. RAM and non volatile storage drive may include a number of memories including a main random access memory RAM to store instructions and data during program execution and a read only memory ROM in which fixed instructions are stored. RAM and non volatile storage drive may include a file storage subsystem providing persistent non volatile storage of program and or data files. RAM and non volatile storage drive may also include removable storage systems such as removable flash memory.

Bus subsystem provides a mechanism to allow the various components and subsystems of computer to communicate with each other as intended. Although bus subsystem is shown schematically as a single bus alternative embodiments of the bus subsystem may utilize multiple busses or communication paths within the computer .

It should be noted that the methods systems and devices discussed above are intended merely to be examples. It must be stressed that various embodiments may omit substitute or add various procedures or components as appropriate. For instance it should be appreciated that in alternative embodiments the methods may be performed in an order different from that described and that various steps may be added omitted or combined. Also features described with respect to certain embodiments may be combined in various other embodiments. Different aspects and elements of the embodiments may be combined in a similar manner. Also it should be emphasized that technology evolves and thus many of the elements are examples and should not be interpreted to limit the scope of the invention.

Specific details are given in the description to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. However it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. For example well known processes structures and techniques have been shown without unnecessary detail in order to avoid obscuring the embodiments. This description provides example embodiments only and is not intended to limit the scope applicability or configuration of the invention. Rather the preceding description of the embodiments will provide those skilled in the art with an enabling description for implementing embodiments of the invention. Various changes may be made in the function and arrangement of elements without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

It is to be appreciated that while the described methods and systems for intuitive status signaling at opportune times for a hazard detector are particularly advantageous in view of the particular device context in that hazard detectors represent important life safety devices in that hazard detectors are likely to be placed in many rooms around the house in that hazard detectors are likely to be well positioned for viewing from many places in these rooms including from near light switches and in that hazard detectors will usually not have full on device graphical user interfaces but can be outfitted quite readily with non graphical but simple visually appealing on device user interface elements e.g. a simple pressable button with shaped on device lighting and in further view of power limitations for the case of battery only hazard detectors making it desirable for status communications using minimal amounts of electrical power the scope of the present disclosure is not so limited. Rather the described methods and systems for intuitive status signaling at opportune times are widely applicable to any of a variety of smart home devices such as those described in relation to supra and including but not limited to thermostats environmental sensors motion sensors occupancy sensors baby monitors remote controllers key fob remote controllers smart home hubs security keypads biometric access controllers other security devices cameras microphones speakers time of flight based LED position motion sensing arrays doorbells intercom devices smart light switches smart door locks door sensors window sensors generic programmable wireless control buttons lighting equipment including night lights and mood lighting smart appliances entertainment devices home service robots garage door openers door openers window shade controllers other mechanical actuation devices solar power arrays outdoor pathway lighting irrigation equipment lawn care equipment or other smart home devices. Although widely applicable for any of such smart home devices one or more of the described methods and systems become increasingly advantageous when applied in the context of devices that may have more limited on device user interface capability e.g. without graphical user interfaces and or having power limitations that make it desirable for status communications using minimal amounts of electrical power while being located in relatively readily viewable locations and or well traveled locations in the home. Having read this disclosure one having skill in the art could apply the methods and systems of the present invention in the context of one or more of the above described smart home devices. Also it is noted that the embodiments may be described as a process which is depicted as a flow diagram or block diagram. Although each may describe the operations as a sequential process many of the operations can be performed in parallel or concurrently. In addition the order of the operations may be rearranged. A process may have additional steps not included in the figure.

It is to be further appreciated that the described methods and systems for intuitive status signaling at opportune times for a hazard detector are particularly advantageous for hazard detectors that are network connected in that the status communications can relate to both intrinsic hazard detector status as well as any non hazard detector related status information that the hazard detector might be able to receive from other home devices from the cloud service or from any other network connected or internet connected data source. Thus by way of example in addition to the examples given supra in the instant application the hazard detector could provide an alertive color status if a certain notable security condition in the home e.g. there is a downstairs window open the back garage door is not locked etc. or there is a certain notable maintenance condition in the home e.g. the HVAC filter needs replacing a front porch lamp bulb needs replacing etc. or there is some other notable status condition pattern of activity or concurrent activity in the home e.g. the living room television is on but there has not been any person in the living room for 20 minutes the family dog has been standing at the back door for 15 minutes etc. . However it is within the scope of the present teachings to provide a stand alone non network connected hazard detector that simply communicates its own status to the user at the opportune times and that optionally looks for follow up signals from the user by gesture voice etc. and provides further information about its own status upon request. Having described several embodiments it will be recognized by those of skill in the art that various modifications alternative constructions and equivalents may be used without departing from the spirit of the invention. For example the above elements may merely be a component of a larger system wherein other rules may take precedence over or otherwise modify the application of the invention. Also a number of steps may be undertaken before during or after the above elements are considered. Accordingly the above description should not be taken as limiting the scope of the invention.

