---

title: Register for counting and tracking items in a bag
abstract: A register for counting and tracking items in a bag includes a manifest and an RFID reader. The RFID reader is used to query a plurality of RFID tags attached to items contained in the bag. The register creates reports counting and/or identifying changes to items contained in the bag while the bag is routed and/or items in the bag are processed for a customer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09552504&OS=09552504&RS=09552504
owner: DUFL, INC.
number: 09552504
owner_city: Tempe
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150227
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 583 006 filed on Dec. 24 2014 entitled REGISTER FOR COUNTING AND TRACKING ITEMS IN A BAG which application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 056 247 filed on Sep. 26 2014 the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes.

This disclosure relates in general to registers. Registers are used to record transactions. Some registers include machines and systems for ascertaining a number of movements of various devices. Some registers are used to disclose the numerical extent or quantity of movement of a machine and where the device is separate and independent of the machine whose movements are to be noted also some machines such as cash registers fare registers voting machines and calculators have registering or counting devices as elements and have in addition certain other features for a given purpose.

People often use bags e.g. suitcases to carry personal items and other items while traveling. In some embodiments a register is used to count and or track items of a bag while the bag is routed and items of the bag are processed. For example a customer selects a plurality of items to put in a suitcase. The customer then sends the suitcase to a processing facility where the plurality of items are logged e.g. added to a manifest of the suitcase and correlated to the customer and RFID tags are attached to the plurality of items. For example an RFID tag e.g. the size of a grain of rice is sewn onto a shirt. The suitcase comprises an RFID reader. The customer plans a first trip to a first destination e.g. New York . The customer requests the suitcase be sent to New York for the customer to have the availability to use the plurality of items while the customer is at the first destination e.g. for the customer to wear the shirt while the customer is in New York . The suitcase is sent from the processing facility to New York. The customer uses one or more of the plurality of items while the customer is at the first destination. The customer sends the suitcase from the first destination to the processing facility where one or more of the plurality of items are processed e.g. the shirt is laundered pressed and returned to the suitcase . The customer plans a second trip to a second destination e.g. San Francisco . The customer requests the suitcase be sent to San Francisco for the customer to have the availability to use one or more of the plurality of items while the customer is at the second destination e.g. for the customer to wear the shirt while the customer is in San Francisco . The suitcase is sent from the processing facility to San Francisco. The customer uses one or more of the plurality of items while the customer is at the second destination e.g. wears the shirt and a pair of shoes . The customer sends the suitcase from the second destination to the processing facility where one or more of the plurality of items are processed e.g. the shirt is laundered pressed and returned to the suitcase and the shoes are shined and returned to the suitcase . Thus the processing facility saves the customer time and effort by cleaning and routing the suitcase for the customer e.g. the customer does not un pack and re pack the suitcase between trips and the customer does not take the suitcase through airport security . A register comprising the RFID reader and the manifest is used to count and tract the plurality of items of the suitcase.

In some embodiments a register for counting and tracking items in a bag is disclosed. The register comprises a manifest an RFID reader a first report a second report and a third report. The manifest comprises a first identification ID of a first radio frequency identification RFID tag wherein the first ID is correlated to an account of a customer and the first RFID tag is attached to a first item of clothing and a second ID of a second radio frequency identification RFID tag wherein the second ID is correlated to the account of the customer and the second RFID tag is attached to a second item of clothing. The RFID reader is attached to the bag and configured to query the first RFID tag for the first ID and query the second RFID tag for the second ID. The first report is generated after the bag is sent to a first destination. The first report is generated by identifying a first record wherein the first comprises the first ID and the second ID from the RFID reader querying the first RFID tag and the second RFID tag and comparing the first record to the manifest. The second report is generated after the first report. The second report is generated by identifying a second record wherein the second record comprises the first ID but not the second ID from the RFID reader querying the first RFID tag but not the second RFID tag and comparing the second record to the manifest. The second report identifies the second item of clothing is missing from the bag based on the second ID missing from the second report. The third report is generated after the second report. The third report is generated by identifying a third record wherein the third record comprises the first ID and the second ID from the RFID reader querying the first RFID tag and the second RFID tag and comparing the third record to the manifest. In some embodiments the register comprises a modem for sending the manifest and or one or more reports from the bag to a computing device e.g. desktop and or mobile device via the Internet. In some embodiments reports comprise images of items in the bag.

In some embodiments a method for counting and tracking items in a bag using a register is disclosed. A bag is received from a customer the bag comprising a first item of clothing and a second item of clothing. A first RFID tag is attached to the first item of clothing the first RFID tag having a first ID that is unique to the first RFID tag. A second RFID tag is attached to the second item of clothing the second RFID tag having a second ID that is unique to the second RFID tag. The first ID is correlated with an account of the customer. The second ID is correlated with the account of the customer. A manifest is created for the bag wherein the manifest comprises the first ID the manifest comprises the second ID and the manifest is correlated to the account of the customer. The bag is sent to a first destination. A first record of the bag is generated using an RFID reader attached to the bag wherein the first record is generated by the RFID reader querying the first RFID tag and the second RFID tag. A first report is generated by comparing the first record to the manifest. The first report is transmitted to a device of the customer. The first item is removed from the bag. The first item is cleaned and returned to the bag after cleaning. A second record is generated after returning the first item to the bag after cleaning wherein the second record is generated by the RFID reader querying the first RFID tag and the second RFID tag. The second record is compared to the manifest to generate a second report. In some embodiments the second record is generated to verify items that were removed from the bag for cleaning were returned. The second report is transmitted to the device of the customer.

In some embodiments a method for counting and tracking items in a bag using a register is disclosed. A bag received from a customer is identified the bag comprising a first item of clothing and a second item of clothing. A first RFID tag is identified wherein the first RFID tag is attached to the first item of clothing the first RFID tag having a first ID that is unique to the first RFID tag. A second RFID tag is identified wherein the second RFID tag is attached to the second item of clothing the second RFID tag having a second ID that is unique to the second RFID tag. The first ID is correlated with an account of the customer. The second ID is correlated with the account of the customer. A manifest for the bag is created wherein the manifest comprises the first ID the manifest comprises the second ID and the manifest is correlated to the account of the customer. A first record of the bag is generated using an RFID reader attached to the bag wherein the first record is generated by the RFID reader querying the first RFID tag and the second RFID tag. A first report is generated by comparing the first record to the manifest. Instructions are provided to a cleaner for cleaning the first item of clothing. A second record is generated after the first item is returned to the bag after cleaning wherein the second record is generated by the RFID reader querying the first RFID tag and the second RFID tag. The second record is compared to the manifest to generate a second report. The second report is transmitted to a device of the customer.

Further areas of applicability of the present disclosure will become apparent from the detailed description provided hereinafter. It should be understood that the detailed description and specific examples while indicating various embodiments are intended for purposes of illustration only and are not intended to necessarily limit the scope of the disclosure.

In the appended figures similar components and or features may have the same reference label. Further various components of the same type may be distinguished by following the reference label by a dash and a second label that distinguishes among the similar components. If only the first reference label is used in the specification the description is applicable to any one of the similar components having the same first reference label irrespective of the second reference label.

The ensuing description provides preferred exemplary embodiment s only and is not intended to limit the scope applicability or configuration of the disclosure. Rather the ensuing description of the preferred exemplary embodiment s will provide those skilled in the art with an enabling description for implementing a preferred exemplary embodiment. It is understood that various changes may be made in the function and arrangement of elements without departing from the spirit and scope as set forth in the appended claims.

Embodiments are generally and without limitation related to devices systems and methods that allow one or more customers to travel with a benefit of one or more suitcases personal item s and or other luggage items and content generally referred to in this application as luggage but without carrying the luggage and or otherwise addressing some or all of luggage handling requirements when travelling from one location to one or more other locations e.g. traveling from a start location a destination . More specifically but without limitation a customer provides a suitcase the suitcase typically comprising contents the suitcase is stored at a storage location for example a storage facility i.e. a location away from the start location and after the customer identifies either directly or indirectly a destination the suitcase is sent to the destination. In some embodiments the storage facility not a place where the customer regularly receives mail e.g. the customer may regularly receive mail at a residence or business . The customer may identify the destination before or during travel from the start location to the destination. In some embodiments the customer identifies the destination after the suitcase is stored at the storage location and before the customer leaves the start location. In some embodiments the customer identifies the destination explicitly or identifies the destination indirectly by identifying a travel itinerary service provider reservation and or other indicator of travel and the like. The suitcase is sent either directly or indirectly from the storage location to the destination. The suitcase is returned to the storage location to another location or may be delivered to a subsequent destination. In some embodiments suitcase contents are processed e.g. cleaned ironed polished replaced and or replenished before the customer arrives at a destination. In some embodiments processing replacing and or replenishing suitcase contents saves the customer time and or provides the customer with a diversity of contents and or provides more total contents over a duration of travel.

The processing facility receives the suitcase and creates a manifest comprising items of a suitcase . In some embodiments an image is taken of each item of a suitcase and images are part of the manifest. The processing facility correlates the manifest and or the suitcase to an account of a customer. In some embodiments processing facilities are geographically spread to reduce shipment costs and or facility costs. A customer uses a customer device e.g. desktop laptop and or mobile device such as a smart phone to request delivery of a suitcase receive updates regarding the suitcase and or to provide instructions regarding the suitcase e.g. for shirts to be cleaned and or mended . In some embodiments a customer device is connected by a local area network LAN to the Internet e.g. a first customer device connected to a first LAN . In some embodiments a customer device is connected to the Internet by a cell tower e.g. an nth customer device connected to a first cell tower .

Service providers are used for reference e.g. social media used by a customer to help determine customer likes processing items of the suitcase e.g. cleaning and or delivery of the suitcase e.g. a courier service .

In some embodiments the suitcase communicates with the logistics system server e.g. through a modem . The logistics system server receives information from the suitcase e.g. GPS data inventory etc. and or provides instructions to the suitcase e.g. for the suitcase to display a mailing label on a screen or to unlock . In some embodiments a suitcase is connected by a LAN to the Internet e.g. a first suitcase connected to a second LAN . In some embodiments a suitcase is connected to the Internet by a cell tower e.g. an nth suitcase connected to a second cell tower .

A suitcase is received at the processing facility . The camera is used to take pictures of items in the suitcase to create a manifest for the suitcase . RFID tags and or barcodes are secured to items in the suitcase . The RFID scanner and or barcode scanner are used to read the RFID tags and or barcodes. In some embodiments RFID tags are used instead of barcodes so that multiple RFID tags can be read at once speeding up an inventory process. Pictures of items of the suitcase are stored in the image storage . Manifests are stored in the inventory database . In some embodiments the mobile device is used to perform functions of the camera s RFID scanner s and or barcode scanner s . In some embodiments the processing facility stores suitcases instead of a storage facility operated by a third party wherein the processing facility and the logistics system are operated by a common entity . In some embodiments sorting equipment is used to sort suitcases going to different locations and or sorting items for different suitcases e.g. sending and receiving items from multiple suitcases to and from the dry cleaner .

Referring next to a block diagram of an embodiment of a system for storage and delivery of the suitcase from a storage facility is shown. In a logistics system a customer device a storage facility a plurality of package delivery services and the suitcase are connected to each other via the Internet .

The logistics system comprises a logistics engine a customer interface and a logistics repository . The customer device interacts with the logistics system through the customer interface . The customer places personal items in the suitcase and the suitcase is sent to the storage facility . The storage facility is a location different from the start location of the customer. In some embodiments the storage facility is a storage facility. Through the customer interface the customer is able to request the suitcase be delivered to a destination. In some embodiments the customer provides a sequence or partial sequence of destinations an itinerary a partial destination such as a city but not a specific location within the city or other destination related information. In some embodiments the customer changes previously provided destination related information and optionally is able to change all previously provided destination related information or only some for example previously provided destination related information that cannot be changed may appear grayed out or is otherwise indicated to the customer. The logistics engine communicates with the storage facility and one or more package delivery services to deliver the suitcase from the storage facility to the destination. Information about routing and deliveries is stored in the logistics repository .

For example a customer lives in Tucson Ariz. and plans a first trip from Tucson to New York City N.Y. arriving in New York on October 25. The start location for the trip is Tucson and the destination for the first trip is New York City. The storage facility is a storage facility near Los Angeles Calif. Before the trip e.g. in January the customer receives the suitcase and packs the suitcase with personal items e.g. clothing and toiletries . The suitcase is then sent to the storage facility near Los Angeles the storage facility for storage e.g. in January . In March the customer decides to go on the first trip from Tucson to New York City. The customer uses an app on a smart phone an example of the customer device to make a request for delivery of the suitcase to New York City by October 25. The customer provides a hotel and or a hotel address in New York City. The customer interface receives the request for delivery of the suitcase to New York City. The customer interface transfers the request for delivery of the suitcase to New York City to the logistics engine . The logistics engine schedules with FedEx an example of a package delivery service pickup of the suitcase from the storage facility on October 20 for delivery to the hotel by the morning of October 25. The logistics engine provides instruction to the storage facility to prepare the suitcase for pickup by FedEx on October 20 and at that time or optionally at a later time prior to pick up communicates label information such as a label format and parcel number to the suitcase which displays properly formatted label information on the dynamic display . The logistics engine stores information about FedEx picking up the suitcase the hotel information and instructions to the storage facility in the logistics repository .

On October 20 FedEx picks up the suitcase at the storage facility and delivers the suitcase to the hotel the morning of October 25. Because the dynamic display displays the assigned FedEx parcel number in an appropriate FedEx compatible format FedEx personnel and systems can handle the suitcase as a standard FedEx package including scanning the dynamic display in the same manner and with the same equipment that a FedEx label is scanned updating FedEx s systems with information about a location and or progress of the suitcase as the suitcase is shipped. A service interface communicates with FedEx systems application programming interfaces receives updated information about the location and or progress of the suitcase as updates are available and in turn updates the logistics system the logistics engine the customer interface and or the logistics repository .

On October 20 the logistics engine notifies the customer interface of FedEx picking up the suitcase and stores the notification in the logistics repository . The customer can access information about FedEx picking up the suitcase through the customer interface . In some embodiments the customer interface pushes an alert to the customer device e.g. as a text message or to show up in a notification center of the smart phone that the suitcase was picked up by FedEx on October 20. Similarly the customer can receive a text that the suitcase arrived at the hotel on October 25. On the morning of October 25 the customer boards an airplane at Tucson and flies to New York City. When the customer arrives at the hotel in New York City a staff member at the hotel gives the customer the suitcase when the customer checks in at the hotel. In some embodiments the hotel staff sends the suitcase to the customer s room before the customer checks in and the customer receives a text that the suitcase is waiting in the customer s room .

On October 15 the customer plans a second trip. The second trip is to San Francisco on November 3. The customer using the customer device provides information about the second trip to the customer interface . When the customer is finished with the first trip to New York City the customer sends the suitcase back to the storage facility or in some embodiments the customer leaves the suitcase in the customer s room or at the front desk of the hotel in New York and the logistics engine instructs the hotel staff to set the suitcase for pick up by a package delivery service for delivery from New York to the storage facility . The logistics engine schedules clothes in the suitcase to be washed and pressed and for shoes in the suitcase to be polished and an alert sent to the customer when the suitcase is ready . The logistics engine further schedules with UPS to deliver the suitcase from the storage facility to a hotel in San Francisco so that the suitcase is waiting for the customer when the customer arrives in San Francisco on November 3.

Referring to a block diagram of an embodiment of a system for storage and delivery of the suitcase in collaboration with service providers is shown. is similar to with the addition of a collaboration engine a preference repository and a plurality of service providers . The collaboration engine and the preference repository are part of the logistics system .

The collaboration engine works with service providers to provide the customer with assistance when traveling. Some examples of service providers include social media providers weather websites travel advisory websites hotels and transportation providers e.g. taxi bus and subways . For example the collaboration engine checks a weather report when the customer is to be in New York City and identifies a more than 50 likelihood of rain. The collaboration engine identifies that an umbrella is not listed on an inventory list of the suitcase . The collaboration engine notifies the customer through the customer interface and the customer is given an option to have an umbrella placed in the suitcase while the suitcase is at the storage facility. Or an umbrella is automatically placed in the suitcase . Or the hotel staff at the New York Hotel are notified and the hotel staff offer the customer an umbrella.

In some embodiments the collaboration engine links information from the logistics system to social media accounts. For example the customer could be notified that certain contacts from a LinkedIn account may also be in New York City during the first trip. The customer may also be given dress recommendations for events the customer is attending in New York City. The inventory list could be shared with friends. Further preferred accounts e.g. frequent flyer accounts and preferred guest accounts for hotels can be consolidated and preferred businesses used.

Referring next to a block diagram of an embodiment of a system for storage and delivery of the suitcase having multiple interfaces for different users is shown. In the logistics system the customer device and a plurality of service provider devices connect to the Internet . The logistics system comprises the logistics engine the logistics repository the customer interface a service interface a provider management module and a profile repository . The service interface communicates with the service provider devices . The logistics engine is in communication with the suitcase e.g. through the modem described in reference to . The service interface allows the service provider device to interact with the suitcase .

In some embodiments information from service provider devices is accessed through the service interface which accesses available application programming interfaces at and or through the service provider devices and communicates the information from the service provider devices to subsystems of the logistics system such as the logistics engine customer interface and or logistics repository . The service interface as appropriate enables the logistics system and or subsystems of the logistics system to monitor and report location information and or progress information of the suitcase to modify elements of a route of the suitcase if requested and or if necessary to communicate to other service provider devices and or to manage service providers as appropriate.

For example the customer device has one version of a mobile application i.e. mobile app a hotel staff member has a second version of the mobile application on an iPad and a dry cleaner has a third version of the mobile application on an iPad. Profiles of the customer the hotel staff member and the dry cleaner are stored in the profile repository . The customer the hotel staff member and the dry cleaner are each permitted different information and access to the suitcase based on a version of the mobile application and or a profile. For example the customer is allowed to select locations to send the suitcase and unlock the suitcase . A bellhop is able to scan a 2 D barcode on the screen and determine a room number to place the suitcase in without necessarily learning an identification of the customer. The bellhop is also able to provide status updates and schedule pick up of the suitcase by a package delivery service . The dry cleaner is able to unlock the suitcase and provide status updates. In some embodiments requests for action or information are authenticated.

In some embodiments the service interface also interfaces with service provider devices to authenticate or otherwise authorize provider personnel. For example provider personnel may use a smartphone interface to send and receive information to and from the logistics system and or subsystems of the logistics system such as scanning a suitcase or indicating a location change for a suitcase . The provider personnel smartphone interface software may be freely downloadable from a smartphone manufacturer app store or other app store after downloading the provider personnel smartphone interface software an employee of or contractor working for the service provider can enter credentials of the provider personnel such as employee number email address and or password into the provider personnel smartphone interface software. The smartphone interface software in turn can authenticate the provider personnel directly e.g. on a system device of the provider and or via the service interface . In some embodiments authentication includes employing federated electronic identity technologies such as OAuth OpenID Liberty ID single sign on SAML and or another federated electronic identity technology. If the service provider does not have systems supporting federated electronic identity the provider management module can directly support provider personnel enrollment verification credential management e.g. user ID password biometric data and or other credentials and or user authentication. The provider personnel smartphone interface software may provide support for scanning the dynamic display using a built in camera or may support identifying or optionally communicating with the suitcase using one or more communication protocols such as NFC Bluetooth Wi Fi Direct and or other device to device direct communication protocol.

As has been discussed there are different mobile apps for different functionality and or users. For example there is a customer app for the customer a first service app for a first type of service provider e.g. for hotel staff a second service app for a second type of service provider e.g. for dry cleaners etc. Thus the customer app could track one or more pieces of luggage belonging to or associated with the customer and the first service app could track multiple pieces of luggage under control of the service provider e.g. all suitcases in the hotel . But the different apps are all communicating with a single integrated cloud based system e.g. logistics system . Furthermore additional apps can be made for additional functions. For example in some embodiments an assistant app is used by an assistant to track one or more boss suitcase s . The assistant could work for a first boss and a second boss. The assistant app could link together luggage information for the first boss and the second boss. The assistant based on permissions granted could then perform tasks such as track luggage schedule replacement contents schedule delivery etc.

In some embodiments after the provider personnel smartphone interface software scans the dynamic display and or otherwise identifies the suitcase the provider personnel smartphone communicates with the service interface which can optionally provide instructions and or codes to be communicated to the suitcase and or communicate directly to the modem of the suitcase . For example the dynamic display can be instructed to display different or additional information. Continuing with the example of the Tucson to New York trip when the suitcase arrives at the hotel in New York the hotel bellman who has previously logged into the provider personnel smartphone interface software with the user name and password provided by his employer and been authenticated through the service interface by the hotel s human resources system as an employee of the hotel can scan the suitcase using the provider personnel smartphone interface software utilizing a camera on the smartphone. The provider personnel smartphone interface software then communicates to the service interface which communicates via the Internet with the hotel s reservation management system to obtain the customer s assigned room number and then communicates wirelessly using the Internet and or cellular network to the modem of the suitcase and instructs the dynamic display to stop displaying the FedEx label and instead to display the customer s room number. Note that this system also provides enhanced security and privacy for the customer since the hotel bellman never learns personally identifying information about the customer e.g. the customer s name gender age etc. .

Though many embodiments have discussed delivery by a parcel service e.g. to and from a hotel or a residence many other delivery destinations are possible. For example the suitcase could be delivered to a restaurant a business office a particular office room or conference room of the business office a bank a rental car business a car of the rental car business that is to be rented by the customer a trunk of the rental car a train station an airport a lounge e.g. a lounge at an airport a golf course a ski resort and a gym. Many possible delivery destinations are possible and more efficient in some embodiments because of the dynamic display and or the logistics system . For example the customer leaves luggage containing golf clubs at a golf course and the customer indicates e.g. by an app on a smart phone or using the dynamic display that the luggage containing golf clubs is to return to a storage location. The indication is received by the logistics system . The logistics system transmits a notification to a parcel service to pick up the luggage containing golf clubs with an address of the golf course and updates the screen to reflect a parcel label. In some embodiments the address of the golf course is selected by the customer determined by a location of the customer s smartphone at a time that the customer indicates that the luggage containing golf clubs is to return to storage and or a GPS receiver of the luggage containing golf clubs.

Further more than one piece of luggage can be used for a trip but have different handling delivery details. For example the customer could have a first piece of luggage containing clothes delivered to a hotel in a city and a second piece of luggage containing presentation demo equipment to be delivered to a trunk of a rental car in the city. When the customer arrives by air to the city the customer rents the rental car. The customer then travels in the rental car to an office to give a presentation. After the presentation the customer goes to the hotel in the city. In this example the customer does not need to travel with the first piece of luggage to the office to give the presentation.

It is noted that embodiments in are not exclusive embodiments but have been shown and described to provide an understanding of aspects of this invention to a person skilled in the art. Certainly some embodiments contain all functions and or features discussed in and some embodiments have less than all functions and or features discussed in depending on design criteria and desired functionality. Similarly a person skilled in the art will recognize that many elements disclosed in this application can be combined omitted and or rearranged with other elements depending on design criteria and desired functionality.

Referring to simplified diagrams of embodiments of a suitcase for delivery from a storage facility are depicted. In a block diagram of an embodiment of a suitcase is shown. The suitcase comprises a luggage engine luggage memory a dynamic display a modem a tamper lock and a register . The luggage engine the luggage memory the dynamic display the modem the tamper lock and the register are connected to communicate via a communication bus . The luggage engine comprises one or more processors. The luggage memory comprises one or more memory devices. The modem is used to transmit data to and or receive data from one or more computing devices e.g. server desktop computer laptop and or mobile device In optional aspects of the embodiment the modem may comprise one or more of a cellular or non cellular mobile device a Wi Fi or other fixed wireless device a Bluetooth near field communication beacon or other short range device a Global Positioning System device an audible or inaudible sound generating and or sound receiving device component an optical device and or other component for the purpose of communicating to and or from people and or machines.

In a simplified sketch of an embodiment of the suitcase is shown. The suitcase is basically rectangular in shape and comprises wheels a zipper with two zipper pulls and a handle for pulling the suitcase . In some embodiments the suitcase is sized as a carry on for air travel e.g. less than 45 linear inches 114 linear cm or less than 22 14 9 inches 56 35 23 cm . In some embodiments the suitcase is a fold over suitcase for transporting a suit. Other forms of luggage will be apparent to a person of ordinary skill in the art. In this disclosure a piece of luggage is considered a bag. A bag is a portable container for carrying items. Though this disclosure discusses suitcases similar processes can be used for other types of bags. The suitcase further comprises a console . The console in this embodiment is shown having a screen a locking mechanism and an antenna . In some embodiments the screen is an electronic screen. The console further comprises a processor which can function as the luggage engine and luggage memory . The zipper pulls are secured by the locking mechanism in a position to secure the suitcase in a closed position e.g. zipper secures a lid to a bin portion of the suitcase . In some embodiments the antenna is internal to the console . In some embodiments the antenna receives a signal to unlock the locking mechanism and an actuator in the console unlocks the locking mechanism . The console further comprises a mechanical access lock . In some embodiments the screen is used to display routing information such as a parcel label for shipping through a parcel service instructions for handling and or processing and or instructions for the customer.

Referring next to simplified diagrams of embodiments of the dynamic display used with the suitcase are shown. In A block diagram of the dynamic display is shown. The dynamic display comprises a screen a display engine a power source and display memory .

The screen is dynamically updated to enable and or indicate sequential and or flexible routing and or re routing through a series of route stops routing and or re routing to multiple destinations routing and or re routing to a specific location within an overall location for example to a specific hotel room within a hotel at a street address and or to communicate other information in human readable form and or system readable format. In some embodiments the screen displays information that serves as a mailing label. For example the screen is configured to show an address including street address city state and zip code. In some embodiments the screen shows a symbol such as a bar code 1 D or 2 D or QR code or displays OCR readable characters or other machine readable information. The screen can display information for a particular package delivery service freight transporter transportation company courier service car service hotel or other travel related company for a provider of services related to content of the suitcase for security services such as the United States Transportation Services Authority and or for another party that may transport monitor move open or otherwise handle the suitcase and or its content. Some examples of providers of package delivery services include The United States Postal Service FedEx UPS DHL and Parcel Pool. Additionally other common carriers and or contract carriers provide package delivery services. Further the screen can provide instructions for service providers that are not normally in business for package delivery. For example the screen could provide instructions to a bellhop of a hotel to place the suitcase in the mailroom for a FedEx 10 30 am pickup.

Though many different forms of electronic displays can be used for the screen e.g. liquid crystal display or light emitting diodes in some embodiments an electronic paper display is used to conserve power.

The display engine determines what is displayed on the screen . In some embodiments what is displayed on the screen changes multiple times from a point of origin to a final destination. For example the display engine causes the screen to display instructions for a bellhop in a hotel to give the suitcase to a courier service. After the courier service picks up the suitcase the display engine causes the screen to display an address of a UPS store nearby. Once the suitcase is at the UPS store the display engine causes the screen to display a UPS label which includes a two dimensional barcode that is read by a UPS barcode reader to send the suitcase to an address in another city.

In some embodiments the dynamic display is configured to recover or re display a previously displayed screen and or label. For example the suitcase first displays a shipping label for FedEx. FedEx drops off the suitcase at a hotel and the dynamic display changes to display a room number. But an employee at the hotel realizes the suitcase has been delivered to the wrong hotel. The dynamic display is updated to re display the shipping label for FedEx so the suitcase can be picked up and properly delivered using an original parcel number. For example when the dynamic display changes the dynamic display could have a button appear on the screen indicating a mistaken delivery such as Wrong delivery . The employee of the hotel presses the button Wrong delivery and the shipping label for FedEx is redisplayed. In some embodiments an indication of a mistaken delivery is transmitted to a service provider such as FedEx. For example the suitcase via the modem sends a message to a logistics system that the suitcase was delivered incorrectly.

In some embodiments instructions are further provided on the screen if there has been a mistaken delivery such as Please place this package outside the door it was left at. A FedEx representative has been notified and will stop by to pick up this package. or Please place this package in a safe place and a courier will contact you to retrieve this package. If in doubt of the authenticity of the courier please ask the courier for a pin number associated with this package. The pin number for this package is 4798. In some embodiments the employee at the hotel indicates a mistaken delivery by a mobile app on a smartphone of the employee at the hotel using a scan of the suitcase e.g. taking a picture of the screen and or by entering a unique number of the suitcase that is displayed on the screen and or physically marked on the suitcase . The employee at the hotel can also receive instructions by the mobile app for actions to take regarding the mistaken delivery.

In some embodiments a confirmation screen on the screen is used. For example When FedEx delivers the suitcase to the hotel an employee would have to sign for the suitcase e.g. using the screen or touch an icon on the screen indicating acceptance and or correct delivery. In some embodiments the dynamic display comprises a camera and when the screen is touched e.g. touching the icon and or signed the camera activates to acquire one or more pictures and or a video segment. In some embodiments the one or more pictures and or video segment are used to help verify who accepted the suitcase .

In some embodiments a copy of what is displayed on the screen is transmitted for display on a second device. For example the customer has a smartphone and a customer app on the smart phone has a feature to display on the smartphone what is displayed on the screen . In some embodiments the customer app is configured to display similar information to what is displayed on the screen . For example the screen actually displays a 2 D barcode and the customer app displays a small image of the 2 D barcode and a textual translation and or summary of information contained in the 2 D barcode. In some embodiments the customer app is configured to present information on the screen in a common format to the customer even though the screen may actually display delivery instructions in multiple different formats. Examples of information presented by the customer app include parcel number delivery address an image of the screen a history of changes to the screen and future expected changes to the screen . For future expected changes a whole label partial label and or delivery information could be shown. For example if a carrier is already selected then a whole label could be shown e.g. including a carrier s parcel number but if a carrier is not selected yet then just a next destination address and or location is displayed.

In some embodiments the screen is also a touch screen and the luggage engine receives information through the touch screen. For example once a courier receives the suitcase the courier enters a code in the touch screen. The screen then displays the address of the UPS store nearby and the bellhop is satisfied that the courier is authentic and taking the correct piece of luggage. In optional aspects of some embodiments the display engine and or the luggage engine determine the information or the format of the information to be displayed or that no information is to be displayed on the screen based on instructions or information received via the modem or based on location time and or date interaction with another device or with a software application on another device identity of another entity such as a transportation or other service provider an event an event within a sequence of events and or receipt of manual input at the suitcase.

The display engine is linked to the modem . The display engine receives and or sends instructions and or data to the modem . In some embodiments the display engine changes what is displayed on the screen based on received instructions and or data from the modem . In some embodiments the display engine transmits data about the suitcase e.g. location delivery confirmation etc. to the modem . The modem is explained in more detail in in the discussion of below.

The power source of the dynamic display can be separate or combined with a power system of the suitcase . In some embodiments the power source is a battery. In some embodiments the power source is AC power e.g. 420V 240V and or 250V and or DC power e.g. power from a USB cable and or a battery or batteries . In some embodiments data is transferred through the USB cable to and from the suitcase . In some embodiments power source is a battery that can be recharged wirelessly for example when the battery is within range or a wireless recharging component.

The dynamic display further comprises display memory . In some embodiments the display memory is part of the luggage memory . In some embodiments the display memory is separate from the luggage memory .

In a simplified sketch of an embodiment of the console is shown. The console comprises the screen as part of the dynamic display the locking mechanism the mechanical access lock and the antenna . Also shown as part of the console is a port e.g. used to make an electrical connection with another device using structures such as USB Firewire IEEE 1394 eSATA Ethernet HDMI Display Port Lightning RCA S Video phone connector e.g. TS TRS TRRS and or other wired connection and a battery door . In some embodiments the port is used to power the console . In some embodiments the port is used power another device. In some embodiments the port is used to send and receive information to and from the processor and or memory device of the console . In some embodiments the port is used to charge another device e.g. a mobile phone . The battery door is used to access a battery compartment. The battery compartment holds one or more batteries as a power source for the console e.g. AAA AA C D button cell lithium etc. . In some embodiments the console further comprises a solar panel to completely or partially power the console . The console is shown further comprising the locking mechanism and the mechanical access lock . The zipper pulls are secured using the locking mechanism . The locking mechanism can be unlocked by receiving an electronic signal e.g. via the antenna and or the port . In some embodiments the mechanical access lock is used in addition to an electronic locking device to unlock the locking mechanism . For example the mechanical access lock is a tumbler style lock that is TSA Transportation Security Administration compliant so that the suitcase can be opened by TSA. In another example the mechanical access lock is used if the console loses power and or if other problems arise using an electronic signal to unlock the suitcase . In some embodiments the mechanical access lock is a tubular lock a combination lock magnetic keyed lock and or other type of lock. In some embodiments the console is built into a suitcase during manufacturing. In some embodiments the console is inside the suitcase and the console does not comprise the tamper lock .

Referring next to a block diagram of an embodiment of the modem is shown. The modem allows the suitcase to communicate with the customer a service provider e.g. hotel staff and or dry cleaning staff and or other devices e.g. a station or server for the modem to beacon back location status of the suitcase and or a customer device or communicate wirelessly with other authorized or authenticated systems. The modem comprises a communication engine in communication with various communication elements. In this embodiment the communication engine is connected to a USB Universal Serial Bus port a near field chip a Bluetooth chip and a wireless transceiver . It will be appreciated that the various communication elements need not all be present in other embodiments. For example in some embodiments of the modem the modem does not have the near field chip . In some embodiments the modem has only the communication engine and the wireless transceiver . The modem has one or more of the various communication elements depending on cost and desired functionality.

In some embodiments the modem comprises a GPS receiver that receives signals from one or more GPS satellites . The GPS receiver provides to the logistics system updates regarding a location of the suitcase .

The communication engine is also connected by the communication bus to the luggage engine the luggage memory the dynamic display the tamper lock and the register .

The port provides a wired port to the modem . Though the embodiment in has a port other wired ports could be used to establish a wired connection between the suitcase and another device.

The near field chip and the Bluetooth chip provide relatively close range communication between the suitcase and second device. In some embodiments close range communication is less than 10 5 or 2 feet separation between the suitcase and the second device.

The wireless transceiver enables the communication engine to connect with a cell tower. Thus the modem can send and or receive data e.g. text messages using mobile phone technology. Further in some embodiments the wireless transceiver is configured to connect to a local area network LAN and or a wide area network. In some embodiments two wireless transceivers are used one to connect to the cell tower e.g. 700 800 850 and or 4900 MHz and one to connect to the LAN e.g. 900 2400 and or 5000 MHz . In some embodiments the cell tower and or the LAN provide a connection to the Internet .

In some embodiments the modem also comprises an RFID chip. The RFID chip is used to identify the suitcase to another device.

Referring next to a block diagram of an embodiment of the tamper lock of the suitcase is shown. The tamper lock comprises a security engine an actuator a locking device a security repository a biometrics reader and a manual override . The locking device locks the suitcase . For example the locking device comprises the locking mechanism wherein zipper pulls of the suitcase are secured by the locking mechanism . In some embodiments the locking device is integrated into a housing e.g. console that also comprises the screen . In some embodiments some or all of the security engine the security repository a subset of the security engine a subset of the security repository or the biometrics reader are physically separate from the suitcase and or from the other components. For example the security repository and an authenticating subset of the security engine may operate from a secured network location interacting with an application software module executing on a smartphone that utilizes a smartphone s fingerprint reader component as the biometrics reader in this example embodiment the smartphone application software module reads a fingerprint read from the smartphone fingerprint reader to obtain biometric data transmits the biometric data to the authenticating subset of the security engine which in turn authenticates the biometric data against the security repository and upon successful authentication of the biometric data issues an unlock code or command to the security engine in the suitcase or to the luggage engine in the suitcase or to the locking device in the suitcase.

The security engine is in communication with the modem and the biometrics reader . The actuator unlocks the locking device . The security engine receives a request to unlock the locking device from the modem and or the biometrics reader . The security engine queries the security repository to authenticate the request to unlock the locking device . After the security engine authenticates the request to unlock the locking device the security engine transmits a signal to the actuator to unlock the locking device . In some embodiments the actuator uses an electro magnet.

As an example a customer wishing to unlock the suitcase uses an interface on a mobile device to request the suitcase to be unlocked. The request for the suitcase to be unlocked is transmitted from the mobile device to the modem of the suitcase . The request for the suitcase to be unlocked could be transmitted to the modem via the Internet the LAN the cell tower the Bluetooth chip and or the port . The modem transmits the request for the suitcase to be unlocked to the security engine . The security engine authenticates the request to the suitcase to be unlocked by retrieving a data file from the security repository . After authentication security engine transmits a signal to the actuator . The actuator then unlocks the locking device and the customer can open the suitcase . In some embodiments an open and lock log is kept and or transmitted to the customer.

In some embodiments the customer sends a text message with a code to the modem and or a central server and the locking device is unlocked. In some embodiments a user e.g. customer and or service provider s wishing to unlock the suitcase use a fingerprint reader on a mobile device for authentication. In some embodiments the suitcase has multiple compartments with different locking devices . For example one compartment of the suitcase is used for clothing and a second compartment of the suitcase is used to store valuables e.g. watches and jewelry . The first compartment has a locking device that can be unlocked by a dry cleaner so the dry cleaner can remove and wash the clothes. But the second compartment has a locking device that can be opened by only the customer with maybe one exception being help desk support . In some embodiments the second compartment can be opened only manually.

In some embodiments authentication is performed remotely from the suitcase . For example the customer requests the suitcase to be unlocked using a mobile device. The request for the suitcase to be unlocked is transmitted to a central server. The central server authenticates the request for the suitcase to be unlocked. The central server then sends a command to the modem of the suitcase for the security engine to unlock the locking device . The request for the suitcase to be unlocked is transmitted to the central server or to the modem of the suitcase. The customer is then provided a temporary pin e.g. via text message or through a user interface . The customer enters the temporary pin e.g. a touch screen part of the screen and the locking device is unlocked. In some embodiments a text message with a temporary pin is generated and sent to the customer automatically after the customer requests the suitcase be sent to a destination.

In some embodiments the tamper lock has a manual override so that a customer can unlock the suitcase . For example the manual override is a combination lock having buttons scrolls and or wheels with characters and or numbers. In some embodiments the manual override is a tangible key.

Referring next to a block diagram of another embodiment of the tamper lock of the suitcase is shown. In the tamper lock comprises the actuator and the locking device . The actuator is electronically connected with the modem . The security engine and the security repository are located away from the suitcase . The modem communicates with the security engine and or the security repository via the Internet . A customer device is also connected to the Internet . In this embodiment the customer device transmits a request including credentials to the security engine for the suitcase to be unlocked. The security engine is located on a server connected to the Internet . The security engine compares the credentials with a key in the security repository e.g. the security repository stored on a hard drive or other storage device of the server or on a hard drive or other storage device of a different server . The security engine authenticates the request from the customer device and transmits a signal to the modem for the suitcase to be unlocked. The modem transmits the signal to the actuator and the actuator unlocks the locking device . In some embodiments having the security engine and the security repository separate from the suitcase enables a system to take advantage of computing and storing information in the cloud.

Referring next to a block diagram of an embodiment of the register of the suitcase is shown. The register comprises an inventory engine an RFID reader a plurality of RFID tags and an inventory repository . The RFID reader is attached to the suitcase and is in communication with the modem . The RFID tags are attached to items to be put in the suitcase . In some embodiments the RFID tags are placed on or in personal items. For example RFID tags are sewn into shirt and or pant hems. In some embodiments optically readable or scan able tags such as barcode tags OCR tags and other printed or preprinted tags are used instead of or in addition to RFID tags. In some embodiments some or all of the inventory engine RFID reader and inventory repository are physically separate from the suitcase and or from the other components.

The inventory engine causes the RFID reader to sense which RFID tags are within range of the RFID reader . The RFID reader receives an indication which RFID tags are within range. In some embodiments the RFID tags that are within range are recorded and time stamped and a file stored in the inventory repository .

The inventory repository stores a manifest and or an inventory list e.g. records of items in the suitcase for the suitcase . In some embodiments the inventory repository stores an inventory list of items belonging to the customer but not currently in the particular suitcase either in another suitcase associated with the customer or not currently in any suitcase associated with the customer stores information about or attributes related to the customer or about a group including the customer such as the customer s household members or about one or more groups that may be related to the customer such as sizes styles brand preferences and the like stores inventory history of the suitcase and or stores item utilization history associated with the suitcase the customer or both. The inventory list comprises items that were in the suitcase when the inventory list was created. The inventory engine compares the inventory list to the items corresponding to the RFID tags that are within range of the RFID reader . The inventory engine creates a reconciliation report wherein the reconciliation report identifies items that are on the inventory list and are within range of the RFID reader . The reconciliation report also identifies items that are on the inventory list but do not have a corresponding RFID tag that is within range of the RFID reader .

In some embodiments if an RFID tag is out of range of the RFID reader for more than a given time period e.g. 10 20 30 or 60 minutes then the personal item associate with the RFID tag is flagged. In some embodiments flagged personal items are washed after the suitcase is returned from a destination. In some embodiments personal items are individually wrapped in plastic if they are clean. If a personal item is removed from the plastic wrap then the personal item is flagged for cleaning after the customer returns the suitcase . In some embodiments a moisture sensor and or temperature sensor are used to determine if a personal item is flagged for cleaning. In some embodiments different compartments in the suitcase are used to determine if a personal item is flagged for cleaning e.g. clothing items to be cleaned are placed in a first compartment and clothing items not needing cleaned are placed in a second compartment . In some embodiments the suitcase can be tagged not to be opened. In such embodiments the suitcase is not opened even though some items may be flagged for processing. In some embodiments the customer can turn on and or off the tag for the suitcase to not be opened. For example after a first trip the customer turns on the tag for the suitcase not to be opened but after a second trip the customer turns off the tag for the suitcase not to be opened. A customer may choose to turn off the tag for the suitcase not to be opened based on a schedule and or event e.g. after every third trip or before a trip if there has been nonuse of the suitcase for over three months .

In some embodiments the RFID tags comprise information such as an account number of a customer and or an item tag of a specific item. In some embodiments the RFID tags comprise instructions. For example a first RFID tag is sewn into a shirt and contains instructions to launder and press using heavy starch. After the suitcase is returned by the customer a dry cleaner uses an RFID reader and receives instructions for cleaning and starching the shirt.

Referring next to a block diagram of an embodiment of an inventory display system for the suitcase is shown. is similar to with the addition that the modem is in contact with a customer device e.g. similar to customer device in . Examples of a customer devices include personal computers mobile phones tablets and computerized eyewear e.g. Google Glass . The modem can be in contact with the customer device using one or more of the various communication elements as describe in .

The inventory engine transmits the reconciliation report and or records through the modem and to the customer device . Thus in some embodiments the customer can know the contents of the suitcase in real time or near real time based on the refresh rate of the RFID reader and communication speed of the customer device with the modem . In some embodiments the reconciliation report is transmitted to a service provider.

Referring next to a block diagram of another embodiment of the inventory display system for the suitcase is shown. In the register comprises the RFID tags and the RFID reader . The RFID reader is electronically connected with the modem . The inventory engine and the inventory repository are located away from the suitcase . The modem communicates with the inventory engine and or the inventory repository via the Internet . The inventory engine is located on a server connected to the Internet . The inventory repository is stored on a hard drive or other storage device of the server or a different server. The customer device is also connected to the Internet . In this embodiment information about RFID tags is transmitted from the RFID reader to the modem and to the inventory engine and or the inventory repository via the internet . The inventory engine transmits the reconciliation report and or other information to the customer device via the Internet . The inventory engine also receives requests for information from the customer device via the Internet . In some embodiments having the inventory engine and the inventory repository separate from the suitcase enables a system to take advantage of computing and storing information in the Cloud. 

It will be appreciate by those skilled in the art that elements and or functionality of the suitcase in can be combined omitted and or rearranged based on design criteria and desired functionality. It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that further elements of the suitcase can be performed and or moved into the Cloud such as the luggage engine and or luggage memory . For example in some embodiments the suitcase comprises the dynamic display the wireless transceiver the actuator and the locking device the luggage engine the luggage memory the display engine the communication engine and the security engine are consolidated to a server connected to the Internet and the register the near field chip the port and the Bluetooth chip are omitted. In some embodiments the tamper lock is also omitted.

In some embodiments the reconciliation report comprises a graphic for each item on the inventory list. For an item on the inventory list that is not within range of the RFID reader the graphic is muted e.g. grayed out . In some embodiments the customer can select an item on the reconciliation report and provide instruction for processing the item on the reconciliation report. For example the customer can request the item on the reconciliation report be mended. In another example the customer requests the item on the reconciliation report be removed from the manifest of the suitcase and or requests the item be replaced with another specific item e.g. a particular shirt or generally with another item e.g. another business shirt having buttons and a collar .

In a simplified diagram of a customer interface for managing shipping of one or more suitcases is shown. In some embodiments a customer has more than one suitcase . The customer interface enables the customer to track and manage suitcases . In some embodiments a customer has more than one suitcase and stores suitcases based on travel history and or preferences of the customer. For example the customer could have a first suitcase staged e.g. stored on the west coast of the United States and a second suitcase staged on the east coast of the United States.

In step the suitcase is stored at a first location. In some embodiments the first location is the storage facility . A first request for the suitcase is received wherein the first request specifies that the suitcase is to be sent to a second location step . The suitcase is routed to the second location step . In step a second request is received wherein the second request specifies that the suitcase is to be sent to a third location. In step the suitcase is routed to the third location.

In some embodiments the logistics system provides the customer with information about two suitcases a first suitcase and a second suitcase and receives instructions from the customer that include a desired location to send the first suitcase to a first desired location and to send the second suitcase to a second desired location. In some embodiments the first desired location is different from the second desired location e.g. different cities . In some embodiments the suitcase is stored at a fourth location after being routed to the second location and before being routed to the third location. In some embodiments the suitcase is stored at the fourth location based on a travel history of the customer customer preference and or future travel plans. In some embodiments items in the suitcase are processed e.g. cleaned polished before the suitcase is routed to the third location. In some embodiments the screen is used in routing the suitcase e.g. displays a FedEx label . In some embodiments paper labels are used in routing the suitcase .

In some embodiments the logistics system provides the customer flight information emergency notifications regarding events near the second location and or the third location and or tips regarding travel and using the suitcases . For example tips could include suggested items to pack and or remove from the suitcase suggested items to bring that are not included in the suitcase and or a suggestion to get another suitcase based on travel history.

Referring next to a flowchart of an embodiment of a process for routing a suitcase for delivery using multiple interfaces is shown. The process for routing a suitcase using multiple interfaces begins in step by providing access to a first interface e.g. customer interface to the customer. In step a service provider is given access to a second interface e.g. service interface . In step an instruction is received through the first interface to send the suitcase from a first location e.g. storage facility to a second location e.g. destination . In step a request for information is received through the second interface. In step the suitcase is routed to the second location. And in step the request for information is fulfilled.

In some embodiments a second instruction is received the second instruction being received from the service provider through the second interface wherein the service provider is a dry cleaning business and the second instruction is to open the suitcase. In some embodiments requests are authenticated. In some embodiments the service provider is a hotel and the request for information is a room number of the customer. In some embodiments the service provider is a cleaner and the request for information is for a list of items and or processing instruction for items in the suitcase .

In some embodiments the process for providing the second suitcase is used when a customer is flying from one city and an airplane that the customer is flying is gets diverted. For example a customer is flying to New York City but the airplane is diverted to Washington D.C. because of a snowstorm in New York City. A service provider in Washington D.C. is contacted and compiles a change of clothes and some toiletries for the emergency suitcase. In some embodiments toiletry samples are provided by vendors e.g. free samples . In some embodiments the service provider is a retail store e.g. department store and or drug store . In some embodiments the customer requests the emergency suitcase. In some embodiments an emergency suitcase is prepared based on flight information of the customer without input from the customer.

In some embodiments the emergency suitcase is provided if the suitcase of the customer can t be delivered because of a delay by the package delivery service . In some embodiments the emergency suitcase is provided if the suitcase of the customer can t be rerouted in time because of a schedule change of the customer. In some embodiments if the customer changes a schedule or requests a suitcase be delivered within a short time period e.g. within 24 48 or 72 hours the customer is given price options for delivering the suitcase and the emergency suitcase. The customer can then select from the price options what the customer prefers to receive. In some embodiments in lieu of or in addition to the emergency suitcase the suitcase is rerouted for the customer. For example the suitcase could be rerouted from New York City to Washington D.C. either by request from the customer or based on a stored preference of the customer . In some embodiments delivery time of one or more suitcases is calculated and presented to the customer. For example the customer may be willing to wait twelve hours for the suitcase in New York to be delivered to Washington D.C. if given the option.

Referring next to a flowchart of an embodiment of a process for unlocking a suitcase using a mobile device is shown. Process beings in step by providing to a customer a suitcase having a wireless receiver e.g. suitcase with wireless transceiver . In step the suitcase is routed from a first location e.g. storage facility to a second location e.g. a destination selected by the customer . In step a request is received from a mobile device of the customer to unlock the suitcase . In step the request to unlock the suitcase is authenticated. In step a command is transmitted to the wireless receiver to unlock the suitcase.

Referring to a flowchart of an embodiment of a process for tracking items in a suitcase is shown. Process for tracking items in a suitcase begins in step where a plurality of RFID tags are queried e.g. sensed by RFID reader attached to suitcase . In step a plurality of items are identified based on querying the plurality of RFID tags. In step a repository is queried for an inventory of the suitcase . In some embodiments the repository is in a memory device on the suitcase . In step an inventory report e.g. a reconciliation report as described with is generated.

A number of variations and modifications of the disclosed embodiments can also be used. For example other luggage and or containers besides a suitcase could be used. For example portable containers configured to be shipped can be used. In some embodiments portable containers configured to transport business equipment for presentations such as presentation materials e.g. posters projection screens and or projectors are used. In some embodiments luggage for sporting equipment are used e.g. containers for skis golf clubs hunting rifle gear and or SCUBA gear . For example a unit comprising functionality of the dynamic display and modem is fastened to a hardened case e.g. Pelican rifle case 472 PWC M14 1 by the customer. The customer places a rifle in the hardened case and uses a smartphone app to select a destination for the hardened case. Thus the customer does not need to declare a firearm when traveling by air or worry about traveling with the rifle through locations that may have restrictive firearm regulations. In some embodiments a package delivery service is a type of service provider and interacts with the logistics system through the service interface similarly as other service provider devices can.

Additionally other features such as an integrated weight sensor e.g. built into a handle and or wheel s of the suitcase is used. In some embodiments a generator integrated with a suitcase wheel or wheels is used to power electronics of the suitcase.

Further features can be removed or added. For example in some embodiments of the suitcase the suitcase does not use a dynamic display . Instead the suitcase uses traditional mailing labels. In another variation repositories e.g. security repository and or inventory repository are part of the logistics system instead of the suitcase .

The above methods may be implemented by computer program products that direct a computer system to perform the actions of the above described methods and components. Each such computer program product may comprise sets of instructions codes stored in a memory device. The instructions may be configured to run in sequential order or in parallel such as under different processing threads or in a combination thereof.

Specific details are given in the above description to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. However it is understood that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. For example circuits may be shown in block diagrams in order not to obscure the embodiments in unnecessary detail. In other instances well known circuits processes algorithms structures and techniques may be shown without unnecessary detail in order to avoid obscuring the embodiments.

Implementation of the techniques blocks steps and means described above may be done in various ways. For example these techniques blocks steps and means may be implemented in hardware software or a combination thereof. For a hardware implementation the processing units may be implemented within one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs digital signal processors DSPs digital signal processing devices DSPDs programmable logic devices PLDs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs processors controllers micro controllers microprocessors other electronic units designed to perform the functions described above and or a combination thereof.

While the principles of the disclosure have been described above in connection with specific apparatuses and methods it is to be clearly understood that this description is made only by way of example and not as limitation on the scope of the disclosure.

