---

title: Methods for providing cross-vendor support services
abstract: An analysis is performed on first and second product information to determine a relationship between a first product and a second product. In response to a first notification from a first backend system, a first message is transmitted to a mobile device of the user indicating that the change of a first activity is needed. It is determined whether a modification of a second activity is needed based on the relationship information of the first product and the second product and in response to determining that the modification of the second activity is needed, a second message is transmitted to the mobile device, indicating a possible modification of the second activity and offering a list of one or more options to modify the second activity. A live communications session is established between the user and a support agent of the server to discuss the possible modification of the second activity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09569781&OS=09569781&RS=09569781
owner: TELETECH HOLDINGS, INC.
number: 09569781
owner_city: Englewood
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150731
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 962 723 filed Aug. 8 2013 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 085 401 filed Apr. 12 2011 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 533 857 issued Sep. 10 2013. The above identified applications are hereby incorporated by reference herein.

Embodiments of the present invention relate generally to customer support services. More particularly embodiments of the invention relate to methods for providing cross vendor support services.

Prior to the advent and prolific use of distributed network environments such as the Internet customer service sessions typically occurred over a teleconference between a customer service agent and a customer. These teleconferences which incidentally are still very popular today are initiated by a customer placing a phone call to a customer service agent. The customer service agent s phone receives the call through a public switched telephone network PTSN . Many call centers handle a large volume of inquiries usually by phone for sales information customer support and other services. Typical call centers provide the ability to route multiple incoming customer initiated calls to agents which provide sales information or support on behalf of an entity interested in establishing or maintaining a relationship with the customer.

Modern call center systems selectively route incoming calls based on a number of factors such as the number called or dialed the originating number the queued sequence of the caller the geographic location of the caller accumulated caller history and other relevant criteria. Once the system has evaluated the inbound caller s information if any the system searches for an available agent to service the call. Availability of agents may be dependent on any number of factors such as a skill level or a schedule of the agent. The number of agents within the contact center and available to the system may often be limited by the physical space available for the agents to operate. Contact centers have to deal with a limited number of agents to handle a large number of incoming customer calls.

As the Internet is getting more popular customer service providers now provide for computer based customer service interaction by way of the World Wide Web. Instead of initiating a customer service session by using the phone customers may access a website and engage in a web based customer service session to make inquiries e.g. technical support and or perform tasks e.g. paying bills . Web based customer service sessions offer numerous advantages over teleconference based sessions. For example the graphical user interface of web based customer service applications permit customers to view illustrations or written explanations and thus ameliorate the miscommunications which may arise with oral conversations between a customer service agent and a customer.

Further web based customer service sessions enable a customer to directly target his her needs on the website and thus reduce the time expended both in navigating through a series of vocal menu choices inapplicable to the consumer s particular needs and in waiting to speak to a service agent. Significantly web based customer service sessions are particularly cost effective for the customer service provider given that fewer agents are required to communicate with customers. Indeed customers are provided functionality for finding answers to their questions or performing tasks without any help from a live agent. These customer service sessions may be entirely computer based or alternatively involve interaction with a customer service agent.

While there are advantages to performing customer service sessions over the web or other distributed network environments there has been a lack of efficient platforms to take full advantage of today s technologies particularly the mobile technologies. In order to obtain customer support from a support center the customer is still required to take many steps of manual processes such as a complicated process for registering a product. While there are many ways e.g. email chat voice to communicate between a customer and an agent there has been a lack of an efficient mechanism to provide the customer the best available and cost effective communication channels to an agent.

In addition the availability of information of a knowledgebase KB associated with a product of a vendor is limited to an agent who specifically handles that product for the vendor. Often a support issue of a product may involve multiple components from multiple vendors. There has been a lack of an efficient way to share certain knowledge across multiple vendors without jeopardizing the safety of confidential information of the vendors. Furthermore a customer typically has to initiate a support call to the support center and the support center provides support services to the customer by responding to the support call. There has been a lack of an efficient way to provide proactive support services to a customer.

According to one aspect of the invention a first request is received at a services application programming interface API of a support center from a first user for support services of a first product provided by a first client of the support center. The support center provides support services for multiple products provided by multiple clients. A second request is received at the services API of the support center from a second user for support services of a second product provided by a second client of the support center. A first knowledgebase KB associated with the first client and a second KB associated with the second client are identified. A third KB that contains information common to the first product and the second product is identified. The first KB and the third KB are enabled to be accessible by a first agent assigned to provide support services of the first product to the first user without exposing the second KB to the second agent. The second KB and the third KB are enabled to be accessible by a second agent assigned to provide support services of the second product to the second user without exposing the first KB to the first agent. As a result confidential information of the first KB of the first client and the second KB of the second client is not shared across different clients.

Other features of the present invention will be apparent from the accompanying drawings and from the detailed description which follows.

Various embodiments and aspects of the invention will be described with reference to details discussed below and the accompanying drawings will illustrate the various embodiments. The following description and drawings are illustrative of the invention and are not to be construed as limiting the invention. Numerous specific details are described to provide a thorough understanding of various embodiments of the present invention. However in certain instances well known or conventional details are not described in order to provide a concise discussion of embodiments of the present inventions.

Reference in the specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in conjunction with the embodiment can be included in at least one embodiment of the invention. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification do not necessarily all refer to the same embodiment.

According to some embodiments of the invention a one touch application is installed on a mobile device of a customer or user where the one touch application can serve as a central service point to a support center that provides support services to a variety of products or services provided by a variety of vendors. The vendors can be for example the manufacturers distributors retailers service brokers purchasing houses etc. of the products. Vendors may be the clients of the support center or entities having a business relationship with the support center. A user also referred to herein as a customer can activate the one touch application from the user s mobile device to reach an agent the support center or a KB data center via a variety of communication channels or medias such as for example email chat voice including automated interactive voice recognition or IVR voice over Internet protocol or VoIP video Web and or online community based forum etc.

According to one embodiment an efficient registration mechanism is provided to allow a user to register a product with the support center in a simple and efficient way without having to specifically provide detailed information of the product. In one embodiment a user can activate the one touch application from a mobile device to transmit a machine readable code that uniquely identifies a product to the support center where the support center is configured to determine the product and a vendor e.g. manufacturer or retailer that provides the product based on the machine readable code. For example according to a particular embodiment the user can use a scanner or camera of its mobile device to capture an image of a serial number or a universal product code UPC of a product and use the one touch application to transmit the image to the support center using a variety of communication channels. As a result the user does not have to specifically provide detailed product information for registration purposes. Subsequently the user can activate or launch the one touch application from the user s mobile device for support services of the registered product.

According to one embodiment when a one touch application is activated or launched from a mobile device by a user the one touch application is configured to communicate with a service application programming interface API of the support center. The service API invokes a security system to authenticate the user based on the information transmitted from the one touch application without requiring the user to specifically provide user information. For example according to one embodiment the user may be authenticated based on a media access control MAC address or international mobile subscriber identity IMSI code of the mobile device associated with the user. Such information may have been previously provided to the support center when the user registered with the support center by installing the one touch application on the user s mobile device.

Once the user has been authenticated according to one embodiment the service API transmits a list of one or more products that have been registered to the user. The list of the registered products may be displayed on a display of the mobile device where each product is associated with one or more communication channels that are available for the user to contact an agent of the support center. In one embodiment the availability of the communication channels is determined based on the user preference and the vendor preference at the point in time. Such user preference and vendor preference may be configured in a user profile and vendor profile respectively which may be maintained by the support center.

In response to a selection of one or more of the available communication channels received at the service API according to one embodiment a unique case identification ID is instantly created to uniquely represent a current instant of the support case. In addition a touch plan is created and tracked by the unique case ID where the touch plan represents a blueprint or outline of the corresponding support case. The touch plan is forwarded to an agent assigned to the current case and a communication session is established between the assigned agent and the user via the selected communication channel. The interaction between the user and the agent is logged and tracked based on the touch plan and the unique case ID which may be stored in an interactive history database for example for subsequent analysis.

In some situations according to one embodiment of the invention the touch plan may include information that identifies a relationship between two products or services that have been purchased via a client e.g. purchasing house . When a first product service changes the support center may determine that a second product service may need to change as well based on the touch plan. Accordingly the support center proactively notifies the user regarding the possible change of the second product service and offers support services for the second product service without requiring the user to initiate a support call.

According to one embodiment prior to contacting an agent a list of support options may be presented to the user including a link to a publication forum that may contain one or more solutions that the user is seeking. Such solutions may have been previously generated by extracting certain information from knowledgebase KB of a variety of informational sources such as for example internal support KB client vendor KB manufacturer KB online community KB and or customer interactive history KB etc. As a result the user may find a solution from the publication forum and does not need to contact an agent of the support center which in turn may lower the cost for the client.

Support center also referred to as a customer service center or call center may be implemented in a centralized facility or server. Alternatively support center may be implemented in multiple facilities or servers in a distributed manner e.g. cloud based service platforms . Support center provides support services to a variety of products or services from a variety of clients or vendors. A client may be a manufacturer a distributor a retailer a service provider or broker a purchasing facility e.g. Amazon Expedia or ISIS or a combination thereof. In one embodiment support center includes service APIs to communicate with other systems such as mobile device client s site online community forum contact center including agents or experts administrators client backend system manufacturer backend system and other auxiliary systems e.g. billing system . Client backend system and manufacturer backend system may be implemented as a Web server or other types of servers using a variety of network connections or communication protocols. Support center can handle service requests from customers of multiple clients. For example a support center may handle customer service requests for a number of retail sales companies sales calls for catalog sales companies and patient follow up contacts for health care providers. In such a structure the support center may receive service requests directly from the customers or through client support management systems.

Support center further includes data services system support services system and client integration system . Support services system is responsible for handling support services requests from the users including identifying and registering a product creating an instance case context also referred to herein as a touch plan selecting and assigning a customer representative also referred to herein as an agent or expert to provide support services to the users and managing work flows etc. An agent may be selected based on a skill set or expertise of the agent as well as other factors such as geographic location of the agent. The term agent refers to support center personnel or a computerized application in some cases that respond to customer requests. An agent may be locally situated at the support center or remotely situated over a network.

Data services system is responsible for managing and tracking data stored in data warehouse including knowledgebase and customer interactive history . Data services system is also responsible for analyzing the data stored in data warehouse and other informational sources e.g. client backend system manufacturer backend system KB and KB etc. to collect performance statistics or to generate some solution articles to be published in an online publishing forum for self support purposes. Client integration system is responsible for integrating support information and processes to be customized in a client hosted support environment such as client hosted site which can be a Web site or other servers using a variety of network connections and or communication protocols. The term client refers to an entity interested in establishing or maintaining a relationship with the customer on whose behalf the support center processes support services requests.

Support center further includes Web interface to allow a user or client to access certain functionalities or resources of support center over the Internet such as information stored in data warehouse e.g. knowledgebase . For example Web interface may allow a user to browse or search information stored in KB or alternatively to allow an administrator to configure certain settings of a client e.g. business rules of the client . Support center further includes a multi channel communication system to provide one or more communication channels to any user or client to substantially concurrently access support center . Examples of communication channels include email chat texting e.g. short messaging services or SMS voice e.g. automated IVR real time or VoIP video Web e.g. Web conferencing and or online community forum e.g. Facebook or Twitter etc. Note that multi channel communication system may be fully or partially integrated with support center or alternatively it may be maintained or provided by a third party or partner e.g. communicatively coupled via service API over a network .

Support center further includes an automatic caller distribution ACD system to receive route and manage voice calls exchanged via multi channel communication system . An ACD is a device that handles incoming and outgoing call volume from and to the customers. It sends a call to a selected or first available customer representative and if all the customer service representatives are busy plays a recorded message and puts calls in a queue until a customer representative becomes available. When a customer calls into the customer service center the ACD distributes the incoming calls between various customer service representatives in a manner that ensures that the customer is connected to the correct representative in minimal time. The ACD keeps track of the estimated wait time of each queue of customers. The estimated wait time for an incoming call is the time for which the customer has to wait until he she is connected with a customer representative at the customer service center.

A customer can obtain support services from support center via a variety of communication mechanisms. A customer can initiate a support request to contact a live agent such as agents in a live manner. Alternatively a customer may browse certain knowledgebase such as KB via Web interface or KB via client s site in an attempt to find a solution to a problem of a product he she purchased from a manufacturer via a client of support center . A knowledgebase stores technical manuals and technical information. In addition to this the knowledgebase may store certain automated responses and information related to general queries from the customers. Further the knowledgebase may store details of interactions occurring between each customer and the support center for a certain period of time. The interaction may include placing a request or a posted query through email or a query entered to search for information in the knowledgebase. Further the responses sent to the customers through emails may be stored in the knowledgebase.

In one embodiment when browsing a knowledgebase on a Web forum a one touch button such as one touch button may be provided to allow a customer to initiate a support service request to reach an agent of support center or an agent of the corresponding Web site. In this configuration live support may be a fee based or subscription based support service. Furthermore a customer may also access KB of online community discussion forum such as Facebook Twitter or Youtube to obtain an answer or solution to its problem.

According to one embodiment one touch application is installed on mobile device of a customer or user where one touch application can serve as a central service point to support center that provides support services to a variety of products or services provided by a variety of vendors. The vendors can be for example manufacturers distributors retailers service brokers purchasing houses etc. of the products. Vendors may be the clients of support center or entities having a business relationship with support center . A user also referred to herein as a customer can activate one touch application from the user s mobile device to reach agents the support center or KB data center via a variety of communication channels or media such as for example email chat voice including automated interactive voice recognition or IVR voice over Internet protocol or VoIP video Web and or online community based forum etc. One touch application can be a thin thick client application or a Web based application.

Note that a support center described throughout this application is not limited to a traditional support center or call center nor is it implemented in a single physical location. A support center described herein represents a collection of service logic or providers communicatively coupled to each other over a network in a distributed or a cloud based fashion. The term of a support center herein represents any kind of service providers that provide a variety of services to customers or users. As described throughout this application a support center can be a set of enabling cloud based service APIs which enable a variety of consumer product services and support offerings via an intelligent set of technologies providing automated and or live communications. In one embodiment services provided by a support center can include but not limited to 1 user product and loyalty registration and support services 2 product wish list reviews and comparisons 3 purchasing and accessorizing services 4 social community support and integration services 5 intelligent knowledge support services and 6 integrated sales and product disposition services etc.

Also note that an agent an expert or a customer representative described throughout this application is not limited to a real person. The term of an agent an expert or a customer representative can also refer to any processing logic or functional block that is configured or programmed to provide automated services to a customer for example via services APIs of the support center without a need of a real person involved. Such processing logic and or functional blocks can be implemented in software hardware or a combination thereof.

Data warehouse includes but is not limited to self support KB internal support KB client database DB product database and customer database . Internal support KB may store any support information or communications between an agent and a customer. Self support KB contains published information extracted from other informational sources such as internal support KB and other systems e.g. client backend systems and manufacturer backend systems . Self support KB allows a customer to browse in an attempt to find a solution for the customer s problem hopefully without having to contact a live support agent. Client database may store any client related information including a client profile for each client supported by support center . For example client database may store client s preference of communication channels to be utilized between a customer and an agent. Client database may also contain membership information of the customers.

Product information store may store any user manual or technical manual of products while product intelligence store may store customer loyalty rewards or product rating information of the products. Product detailed information may further include complementary products and services availability etc. Such information may be drawn from external systems such as client s backend systems and or manufacturer s backend systems .

Customer profile store may store any customer related information such as personal information e.g. name address phone numbers sex age security credential device ID of its mobile device etc. Customer asset store may store any product that has been registered by a customer. Customer interactive history store may store information regarding any interaction between a customer and an agent of previous support sessions such as topics detailed discussions time of the discussions contact mechanisms used reasons of the support products or services involved in the discussions last agent or expert the customer interacted with etc.

Other databases may also be included and utilized. For example an agent or expert database may be maintained for the purpose of selecting an appropriate agent or expert in response to a support service from a customer. An agent and expert information database may include a profile for each agent or expert respectively that includes individual agent or expert identifier individual name address communication device information personal information e.g. age sex hobbies physical condition spoken languages ethnicity geographic area of expertise etc. individual skills and or areas of expertise. The agent expert database may further include day s and time s during which and or areas in which the agent expert may be contacted to service customer contacts and or a number of times over a selected period in which the agent expert may be contacted to service customer contacts e.g. similar to presence information .

In addition a service statistics database may also be maintained. A service statistics database may represent any database that stores data related to the operation and management of the support center system . Data such as the number of customers in queue at a certain date and time the duration of support contact in queue the rate of contact abandonment and the use of communication resources are stored in the statistics database. Note that the databases and data stores are shown and described for the purposes of illustration only. These databases and data stores can be implemented or configured in a variety of configurations which may be implemented locally or remotely over a network. Note that some databases or data stores may be implemented as a single database or store or multiple databases or stores. For example customer interactive history store may be implemented as part of internal support KB .

In one embodiment registration module is responsible for registering a customer and or a product of a customer where the customer s personal information or preferences may be stored in customer profile store while the registered product information may be stored in customer asset store of customer database . For example when a customer installs a one touch application e.g. one touch application on its mobile device the customer typically performs an initial login to set up a user account including a username and or password as well as customer s preferences e.g. communication channel preferences . In one embodiment registration module can also be used to assist in registering a user for other accounts such as a loyalty account across one or more loyalty programs a rewards program etc. This information may be stored in customer profile store . In addition a unique device ID such as a MAC address or IMSI code may be captured and stored in customer profile store . As a result when the customer subsequently launches the one touch application the customer can be automatically authenticated by security module based on this information without requiring the customer to provide the same information again.

According to one embodiment when a one touch application e.g. one touch application is activated or launched from a mobile device by a user the one touch application is configured to communicate with service API . Service API invokes security module to authenticate the user based on the information e.g. MAC or IMSI transmitted from the one touch application without requiring the user to specifically provide user information.

Once the user has been authenticated according to one embodiment service API transmits a personalized page having a list of one or more products from customer asset store that have been registered to the user. The list of the registered products may be displayed on a display of the mobile device where each product is associated with one or more communication channels that are available for the user to contact an agent of the support center. In one embodiment the availability of the communication channels is determined based on the user preference obtained from customer profile and the client vendor preference from client database at that point in time. Such user preference and client vendor preference may be configured in a user profile and client vendor profile respectively which may be maintained by the support center.

In response to a selection of one or more of the available communication channels received at the service API according to one embodiment a unique case identification ID is instantly created by case management module to uniquely represent a current instant of the support case. In addition a touch plan is created by touch plan engine and tracked by the unique case ID where the touch plan represents a roadmap or outline of the corresponding support case activities to be performed throughout the life of the touch plan. The touch plan is updated regarding all activity of the user and is forwarded to an agent assigned to the current case and a communication session is established between the assigned agent and the user via the selected communication channel. Throughout the session the touch plan is updated on all activity between the user agent and their respective applications.

An agent may be selected based on a variety of considerations such as a skill set or expertise of the agent as well as whether the agent has previous experience with the same customer. The touch plan may include one or more references linked with all the information related to the current instant support service such as related product information client information customer information and support history with the customer etc. such that the agent can provide the best possible services to the customer. The touch plan may further include suggestion or prediction of products or services that the agent can provide the customer an alternative solution. The suggestion or prediction may be generated by persuasive engine based on the product information and the customer s interactive history etc. The interaction between the user and the agent is logged by logging module and tracked based on the touch plan and the unique case ID which may be stored in an interaction history database for example for subsequent analysis by analysis module .

Processing logic associated with the touch plan e.g. touch plan engine case management module or some other logic also monitors for positive and negative activities from the user the agent and respective applications. If a negative event is occurring the processing logic can perform adjustments according to the touch plan in knowledge provided agent scripting spoken to the user and many others in a manner such to turn the interaction positive e.g. adapt to changing conditions and circumstances . If the activity is positive the processing logic can provide an additional activity in and around product or service upsell cross sell upgrades and product sales etc. The positive and negative activity monitoring and adjustments are not limited to a user and agent they can support any form of interaction even long running interactions that exceed the user activity for any period of time.

In some situations according to one embodiment of the invention the touch plan may include information that identifies a relationship between two products or services that have been purchased via a client e.g. purchasing house . When a first product service changes the support center may determine that a second product service may need to change as well based on the touch plan. Accordingly proactive service module is configured to proactively notify the user regarding the possible change of the second product service and offers support services for the second product service without requiring the user to initiate a support call. A suggestion or offer can be made to the customer by persuasive engine based on the information obtained from databases of data warehouse .

According to one embodiment prior to contacting an agent a list of support options may be presented to the user including a link to a publication forum that may contain one or more solutions to a problem associated with the user. Such solutions may be generated by publication module by extracting certain information from knowledgebase from a variety of informational sources such as for example internal support KB client vendor KB e.g. client database client KB and client backend system manufacturer KB e.g. product database and manufacturer backend system online community KB e.g. KB and or customer interactive history KB etc. As a result a user may find a solution from the publication forum and does not need to contact an agent of the support center which in turn may lower the cost for the client and or the customer. This is also referred to as a call avoidance feature. Certain information from data warehouse may be queried and reported by reporting module .

In one embodiment client integration system is responsible for integrating customized client data which may be used by client s other systems such as client s own Web site e.g. site . For each of clients supported by support center a set of one or more client business rules e.g. rules is provided and processed by client processing module e.g. modules . These rules and processing modules may be provided by the client s developer and integrated with support center via an API e.g. service API . The client business rules may further define one or more processes or methods that have been specifically tailored to certain clients needs. These methods may be invoked by the associated touch plan under certain circumstances.

Note that components or modules shown in are described for the purpose of illustration only more or fewer components or modules may also be implemented. For example a customer satisfaction system CSAT may also be implemented within support center . A CSAT system provides a feedback form to a customer through a variety of communication channels at the completion of a request or a query made by the customer. The feedback form filled out and provided by customers is stored reviewed and analyzed by the CSAT system. All feedback forms stored in the CSAT system are used as a tool to conduct a customer service related survey. The feedback forms are further used to enhance the service provided by support center .

In one embodiment system as shown in may be implemented as a part of the GIGAPOP system available from TeleTech Holdings Inc. of Englewood Colo. The GIGAPOP system in embodiments is a centralized datacenter facility for contact center specific technology. The GIGAPOP system in embodiments provides hosted interaction management technologies including but not limited to chat and web collaboration support for agents engaged in providing customer service and sales support to retail store customers. Also the GIGAPOP system includes interaction disposition data collection data warehousing reporting and related systems. The GIGAPOP system coordinates communication with components of support center and outside systems e.g. backend systems .

One touch application can be downloaded from an application store e.g. iTune from Apple Inc. and installed on mobile device . One touch application may be specifically developed configured or tailored to a specific client of the support center. Alternatively one touch application may be developed and maintained by the support center and capable of being configured to a variety of clients. As a result a customer can use one touch application as a central or global services point to access the support center that provides support services to one or more products of the customer without the conventional unpleasant customer support experience.

Once the one touch application has been installed on the mobile device at block the customer can launch the one touch application to access a service API of the support center over a network for login and to transmit a machine readable code associated with a product to the support center for registering the product. The support center is able to compile all the necessary information including but is not limited to product information client information and customer information based on the machine readable code without requiring the customer to specifically provide the same information. The machine readable code may represent at least one of a serial number a UPC code a QR code or a high capacity color barcode HCCB of the product. Alternatively the machine readable code may represent an electronic receipt of a purchase order via a purchasing facility e.g. Amazon Expedia and ISIS . The machine readable code may be obtained by scanning the code from the product using a scanner or camera of the mobile device or alternatively electronically received from a client of the support center.

At block the one touch application can also retrieve information from the support center via the service API concerning all of the products associated with the customer that have been registered with the support center. The one touch application is configured to display on a display of the mobile device a personalized page having a list of registered products. Each of the registered products may be associated with one or more communication channels that are available for the customer to initiate a contact with an agent of the support center. The availability of the communication channels may be determined and compiled based on the customer s preferences and the client s preferences.

Optionally at block a link to a self support publication forum may also be presented to the customer to allow a customer to access certain published articles that may contain a solution to the customer s problem with the product such that the customer does not have to contact a live agent for solving the same problem. This in turn may lower the support cost for the client and or the customer as a live support service can be avoided. If the customer decides to contact a live agent at block the customer can select at least one of the available communication channels and a communication session will be established via the selected communication channel s between the customer and an agent that has been assigned to the instant support case. An agent may be selected based on a variety of considerations such as its expertise or skill set prior relationship with the customer demographic location language or other factors.

As described above a conventional method for registering a product requires a customer to specifically provide all the detailed information regarding the product. Such process is time consuming and sometimes discourages a customer from registering a product to begin with which may lead to an unsatisfied customer. According to one embodiment an efficient mechanism is provided for a customer to register a product in a simple way without the hassle of a conventional time consuming registration process.

The customer can then utilize one touch application to access support center via service API . The customer and or mobile device is authenticated by a security module e.g. security module of . The customer may be authenticated automatically by the security module based on the customer information previously provided during registration of the customer and or mobile device without having the customer to specifically provide detailed customer or mobile device information. For example a customer may be authenticated by the customer s credentials such as username and password cached and automatically provided by one touch application. Mobile device may be authenticated or verified based on its unique device ID such as MAC address or IMSI code of mobile device .

Thereafter according to one embodiment one touch application is configured to transmit the machine readable code to service API . The transmitted machine readable code may be the actual machine readable code converted from an image obtained from scanner or camera for example via an optical character recognition OCR process. OCR is the mechanical or electronic translation of scanned images of handwritten typewritten or printed text into machine encoded text. It is widely used to convert books and documents into electronic files to computerize a record keeping system in an office or to publish the text on a website. OCR makes it possible to edit the text search for a word or phrase store it more compactly display or print a copy free of scanning artifacts and apply techniques such as machine translation text to speech and text mining to it. Alternatively one touch application will either locally translate the scanned image via the one touch application on the mobile device thus sending the translated product information to the service API or simply transmits an image of the machine readable code or an image of an electronic receipt to service API where registration module can process the translated image data or extract or invoke another process to extract the actual machine readable code.

Based on the machine readable code received from one touch application registration module is configured to determine and compile all necessary information concerning the product and a vendor of the product e.g. client . In one embodiment registration module accesses product information store to obtain detailed product information and accesses client database to obtain client information of a client from which the product was purchased based on the machine readable code. Product information may be acquired via a combination of several methods such as for example 1 licensed from a product data provider like CNET or other services where data will be provided in a self hosted database and updated through a batch process on a pre determined frequent basis in order to have the latest product information at hand and 2 via an API call to a manufacturer database of products where the data is not provided via a service like CNET or others. The data is collected in a support center product database and enhanced with data necessary to provide services to a user via the service API.

In addition registration module can further determine and compile customer information from customer profile store based on customer login and or device identification information. The compiled information can then be stored in customer asset store . Further registration module may also compile and store in customer asset store any product related information such as product rebates product warranties product ratings support ratings information for example from product intelligence store . Such information may be obtained from client s backend system s and manufacturer s backend system s . Furthermore registration module may also determine for each registered product a list of one or more communication channels that are available for the customer to reach an agent for support services of that particular product. The availability of the communication channels may be determined based on client s preference available from client database and customer s preference available from customer profile store . Thus customer asset store is configured to store all of the products that have been registered by the customer. Such information may be subsequently presented to the customer when the customer launches the one touch application from is mobile device and accesses support centre via service API .

According to one embodiment the information as shown in can be retrievable for example by reporting module of transmitted to a customer and displayed on a display of a mobile device of the customer. are screenshots illustrating a graphical user interface GUI of a one touch application displayed on a display of a mobile device according to one embodiment of the invention. Referring to GUI can display product information based on retailer manufacturer and actual product . When a user activates tab detailed product information concerning one or more registered products in this example product is displayed in GUI .

In addition one or more communication channels that are available to contact an agent are also displayed as graphical representations or icons thereof. In this example the choices of voice email and chat are available. The availability of communication channels may be determined based on customer s preferences and client s preferences. A customer can select one or more of the available communication channels to establish a communication session with an agent or expert. Furthermore a customer can also access an online community forum to discuss with other users or agents or for self support purposes via graphical representations .

If there is additional information available for the product an icon is displayed for indicating such a purpose. When a customer activates icon more information concerning the product is displayed as shown in . In this example referring to rebates and free rewards are offered. A graphical representation may be displayed indicating a number of the items available to be claimed. The additional information concerning the product may be obtained from product intelligence store of . A customer may also access retailer and warranty information by activating the respective graphical representation.

According to some embodiments certain components or systems of a support center may be fully or partially integrated within the support center. Some components may be developed and or maintained by a third party e.g. payment processing facility or a partner enterprise e.g. client or manufacturer backend systems and communicatively coupled to the support center. According to one embodiment a set of service APIs may be utilized to communicate various internal or external components to further improve the efficiency and performance as well as providing more flexibility to the support center. The service API may also be utilized by customers to access the support center via a variety of communication channels.

In one embodiment integrated service API may be utilized by certain integrated service providers such as payment services dispatch services location services tracking and delivering services short messaging services SMS social networking and blogging services e.g. Twitter and customer relationship management CRM services e.g. Salesforce etc. Automated service API may be utilized by AI Artificial Intelligence services BOT services automated services like roBOT that mimic the actions or activity of a human processes or activities making the user think they are talking to a live person frequently asked question FAQ services survey services eLearning services etc. Partner service API may be utilized by certain partner entities of the support center such as social knowledge multi channel communication system and social CRM e.g. Lithium etc.

In one embodiment support service API can be utilized by customer to reach the support center. Support service API may be utilized for example via a one touch application launched from a mobile device to register a user register a product access knowledgebase e.g. KBs and obtain a support service from an agent AI BOT service etc. Initially when a customer downloads and installs a one touch application on its mobile device the customer can access support center via support service API to create a user account which may be performed by registration module . Subsequently the customer may also log into the account via support service API which may be authenticated by security module to register a product and or to retrieve a list of registered one or more products that have been registered with support center using certain techniques described above.

When there is a need to contact support center on a product the customer can activate the one touch application from its mobile device or press a one touch button from a Web site which will access and log into support center via support service API where the customer and or the mobile device can be authenticated by security module . In addition case management module is configured to create a unique case ID that uniquely identifies the instant support case. The case ID may be created based on a combination of at least some of the product identifiers e.g. serial number barcode QR code HCCB code receipt transaction ID client information e.g. retailer ID manufacturer product ID customer information e.g. personal information username password mobile device ID and other information e.g. time date .

In one embodiment touch plan engine is configured to create a touch plan which is identified and tracked by the case ID. The touch plan may be created according to one or more business rules or templates of the client. The touch plan represents a roadmap an outline a tracking record or case context for the instant support case. The touch plan may also include or reference to other aiding information such as product information product intelligence information customer history data client information and manufacturer information etc. which may be retrieved and compiled from various informational sources such as customer database client database product database knowledgebase client and or manufacturer backend systems etc. The touch plan is then forwarded to an agent that has been assigned to the instant case to allow the agent to have all the necessary information to enable the agent to provide the best customer experience. The agent may be assigned based on a variety of factors such as skill set expertise demographic location language prior customer relationship etc.

In response service API forwards information of the selected communication channel user information and or product information to case management module . Case management module is configured to instantly create a case ID that uniquely identifies the instant support session or case and return the new case ID to service API via transaction . Service API in turn transmits the information to touch plan engine via transaction . In response touch plan engine is configured to create a touch plan together with all the necessary information and history data select an appropriate agent and forward the touch plan to the desktop of the selected agent via transaction . The agent may be selected based on a variety of factors or considerations as described above. The touch plan may further invoke a persuasive engine during transaction to generate certain information to allow the agent to propose certain alternative solutions to the customer s problem. Thereafter the agent can start a communication session e.g. chat session with the customer via transaction . After the support session ends optionally during transaction touch engine may invoke a customer satisfaction unit to perform a customer survey concerning the support session just ended.

As described above a support center can handle support requests from customers of multiple clients. For example a support center may handle customer service calls for a number of retail sales companies sales calls for catalog sales companies and patient follow up calls for health care providers. In such a structure the support center may receive calls directly from the customers or through client call management systems. Each client and or customer may have different support service requirements and demands. Conventional support centers typically provide a one size fit all support interface which may not provide the best customer experience.

According to some embodiments a personalized page is constructed for each customer based on a variety of information such as customer information client information product information and certain knowledgebase. The personalized page for each customer may be different and specifically tailored to the corresponding customer s specific products and preferences etc. The personalized page is presented to the customer when the customer launches the one touch application from the customer s mobile device such that the customer can have a very important person VIP type of feeling and experience.

Upon having successfully authenticated the customer and or mobile device service API may invoke an analysis module e.g. analysis module and or reporting module e.g. reporting module to compile all the necessary information to generate a personalized page for the customer. Referring to in one embodiment personalized page may be generated based on one or more products that have been registered by the customer and stored in customer asset store . The products may be registered using certain techniques described above such as for example based on a machine readable code e.g. serial number barcode QR code UPC code HCCB code or transaction number of an electronic receipt etc. without requiring the customer to specifically provide the detailed product information.

For each of the registered products retrieved from customer asset store detailed product information may be retrieved or identified from product information database which may include information retrieved from manufacturer and or client backend systems. In addition certain client information may be retrieved from client database . Client information may include client s preferences on communication channels that can be utilized to reach an agent of the support center that provides support services of a registered product on behalf of the client. In addition the client information may further include the nearby retail location or support center hosted by the client. Further certain customer information may be retrieved from customer profile store . The customer information typically includes customer identity customer personal information customer financial information customer type or membership class customer sale history customer service history and the like. The customer information may also include customer s preference on communication channels that the customer prefers to utilize to reach an agent of the support center. The availability of communication channels may be determined based on the client s preference and customer s preference. The available communication channels may also determined based on the presence information of an agent assigned to the instant support case and the customer where the presence information may be provided by an external or third party presence service via service API e.g. integrated and or partner service API .

Presence information means any information associated with a network node and or endpoint device such as a communication device that is in turn associated with a person or identity. Examples of presence information include registration information information regarding the accessibility of the person s endpoint device the endpoint device s telephone number or address the recency of use of the endpoint device by the person recency of authentication by the person to a network component the geographic location of the person s endpoint device the type of media format language session and communications capabilities of the currently available person s communications devices the preferences of the person e.g. contact mode preferences or profiles such as the communication device to be contacted for specific types of contacts or under specified factual scenarios contact time preferences impermissible contact types and or subjects such as subjects about which the person does not wish to be contacted and permissible contact type and or subjects such as subjects about which the person does wish to be contacted . The presence information may include availability information from an electronic calendar or agenda maintained by the person in a calendar application. Presence information can be user configurable i.e. the user can configure the number and type of communications and message devices by which they can be accessed and to define different profiles that define the communications and messaging options presented to incoming contactors in specified factual situations. The presence information can be associated with internal and external endpoints associated with each user.

Referring back to personalized page may further include product rebates rewards and warranties etc. obtained from product intelligence database . Alternatively the personalized page may further include an upsell option or promotion for example generated by a persuasive engine based on the product information and or customer s purchase or interactive history. Personalized page may further include a link to a self support knowledgebase that allows a customer to attempt to find a solution to the customer s problem without having to contact a live agent. Note that the above described information may be previously compiled and stored in customer asset store or customer s profile when the customer registered the products. Alternatively the above information can be dynamically compiled from various informational sources as described above in response to a request. are screenshots representing examples of personalized page . Thereafter data representing personalized page is then transmitted by service API to one touch application to be displayed on a display of mobile device .

As described above the availability of communication channels may be determined based on the client s preference and customer s preference as well as presence information of a selected agent and the customer at the point in time. The preferred communication channels of a client and a customer may be different. For example a client may want to utilize an automated or offline communication channels rather than live communication channels for supporting certain products which may reduce the cost for the services. Client s preferred communication channels may be configured by an administrator of the client. Client preferred communication channels may be configured per campaign basis per program or project basis per product basis per customer basis or a combination thereof. For example the preferred communication channels may be determined based on a membership of the customer e.g. privilege or loyalty or a type of the product or promotion period. The privileges of customer memberships may be purchased or subscribed.

In one embodiment the available communication channels may be those commonly preferred by the customer and the client. For example as shown in in this example the client prefers email and Web communication channels while the customer does not mind which of the channels to be utilized. The available communication channels should then be the email and Web communication channels.

As described above a support center can provide support services for a variety of products or services provided by a variety of manufacturers and or clients. A customer may register and obtain support services from the support center for multiple products or services. In some situations certain registered products or services may be related to each other. When one of the products or services is changed another related product or service may need to be changed. For example when a customer purchases a travel package from a purchasing facility such as ISIS or Expedia as a client to the support center where the travel package includes an airline ticket from an airline company as a first vendor and a hotel reservation from a hotel chain as a second vendor. When the schedule of the airline ticket has been modified or canceled for example due to bad weather in addition to rearrange the flight the hotel reservation may need to be modified or canceled. Typically the customer has to specifically contact the airline company to rearrange the flight and specifically contact the hotel to change the hotel reservation. Sometimes the customer may not realize that the related products or services e.g. hotel reservation may need to be changed.

According to one embodiment when a customer registers multiple products or services with the support center a touch plan is created by the touch engine. A relationship between a first product provided by a first vendor and a second product provided by a second vendor is determined. The first and second products may be purchased by a customer via a purchasing facility associated with a client of the support center. The first and second products can be registered with the support center using certain techniques described above. In response to a first event received from the client or the first vendor indicating a change of the first product service a first message is transmitted to the user on behalf of the client notifying the user the change of the first product service. In addition a second message is automatically transmitted to the user offering a support service of a possible change of the second product service in view of the relationship between the first and second products without requiring the user to initiate a request for the support service with respect to the second product service.

Once the customer receives receipt the customer can activate one touch application from its mobile device to transmit electronic receipt to support center for registering products without having to specifically provide detailed information of products using at least some of the registration techniques described above. Alternatively customer can also individually provide information concerning each of the products e.g. flight itinerary hotel reservation confirmation car rental reservation confirmation where the support center can identify the relationships amongst the items. Further electronic receipt may be automatically received by support center from client and products may be automatically registered without having the customer initiating the registration. The registration module of support center may identify products based on information extracted from electronic receipt as well as the associated customer information product information and client information obtained from the appropriate informational sources as described above. The registered product information is then stored in customer asset store . In addition case management module may generate a unique case ID for tracking the current instant support case.

Furthermore touch plan engine may generate touch plan representing a support case context. In one embodiment based on the touch plan an analysis is performed on the services or products to determine the relationships among the products. In this example the processing logic may determine that this is a travel package representing a trip of the customer. The hotel reservation e.g. product and the car rental reservation e.g. product can only be valid if the flight e.g. product is on time. Another word the change of schedule or cancellation of product service will have an impact on the validity of products services . The relationship information may also be implemented with the touch plan for example as triggering events or conditions as well as processing rules.

In one embodiment support center communicates with each of the product or service providers via a service API such as partner service API collectively referred to as a partner network . Support center may receive any update or notification from providers via the service API for example via a secured network such as virtual private network VPN . In one embodiment when support center receives a notification from service provider indicating that there is a change regarding product the support center transmits a notification to mobile device for the change of product . The notification may be transmitted from support center to mobile device via one or more of communication channels such as for example text email or voice etc. The selected communication channels can be configured by the customer during registration of the products and or customer and stored in a customer profile e.g. customer profile store of . The notification may be transmitted via the most appropriate communication channel selected at the point in time based on the presence information of the customer. The notification may be associated with a one touch button that allows the customer to contact an agent of the support center.

In addition according to one embodiment based on the touch plan support center determines whether the change of product has an impact on products . If it is determined that a possible change for at least one of products is needed support center transmits at least a second notification on behalf of client to mobile device indicating the possible changes of products and or without the customer having to initiate the contact with support center . In response to the notification s the customer can activate one touch application from the customer s mobile device to obtain support services e.g. via one or more available communication channels as described above. As a result a customer does not have to remember or determine which of the other products might be affected and does not have to initiate a support call for each of the affected products. Also a result of the changes is provided to the user once all adjustments are processed.

In this situation it is mutually beneficial to all parties involved herein. The customers will be happy because they do not have to worry about much their planned schedule manifest are being monitored up to and beyond the execution of each planned event plane trip car rental hotel etc. . More customers may look for the products or services that are supported by support center e.g. with a good reputation support brand name with the peace of mind that they will receive the best possible customer satisfaction. Client will be happy because client does not have to deal with all the support issues. Since the best customer support is provided by support center it will bring in more customers and business to client and product service providers .

Embodiments of the present invention provide numerous support services options to a variety of customers for a variety of products and services from a variety of vendors or clients. As described above the support service options may include live communications with an agent or expert via a variety of live communication channels such as voice chats video conferences etc. The support service options may also include automated e.g. offline or delayed communications with an agent or expert such as IVR texting e.g. SMS emails community discussion forums etc. Further the support service options may also include online community based forum such as social communities in which services may also be provided by peers or other members of the communities. According to one embodiment the support service options further include a self support option in which a customer may be able to browse and or search the self support knowledge to find a solution to a problem of its product without having to contact an agent or expert via the live or automated communication mechanism.

It is useful to know that different service options may be associated with different cost structures. Typically live support option costs more while the automated option may cost less and the self support option may cost the least. Embodiments of the present invention provide various flexible options for a client and or a customer to choose one or more of the options that fit their budget or other considerations. In certain situations a client may prefer some offline or delayed support service options based on certain configurations e.g. types of products or customers which may be configured by an administrator associated with the client. A client may select a support service option per campaign basis per project basis per product basis and or per customer basis. For example different support service options may be available to a customer dependent upon the type of membership of the customer with respect to the client. A loyal customer may enjoy more available support service options while a new customer may only be entitled to limited service options such as the offline or delayed service options. Furthermore certain support service options such as live support option may be a fee based or subscription based service. A customer may want to avoid the live support as much as possible. As described above the available support service options may be displayed on the personal page of a customer.

According to one embodiment certain knowledgebase from a variety of informational sources may be analyzed and compiled to generate articles describing solutions for certain popular problems of certain popular products. The articles are then published in a Web publishing forum to allow a customer to browse and search for an answer to the customer s problem such that the customer does not have to initiate a contact with an agent or expert from the support center which may be a paid per service option.

The extracted information turns into an article as part of self support KB managed by self support KB manager . Once the article is approved it is published in Web publication forum that can be accessed by a variety of users such as users . Web publication forum may be implemented as part of Web interface of hosted by support center . Alternatively Web publication forum may be hosted by a client or a third party vendor or partner. In one embodiment Web publication forum includes search interface to allow a user to search articles within self support KB . In addition according to one embodiment some articles may include or be associated with one touch button to allow a reader to initiate a contact with an agent of support center to further discuss the corresponding article. In one embodiment when one touch button is activated a voice call e.g. VoIP or a Web chat session e.g. text audio or video chat may be established with an agent. In addition proper information associated with the current section of the article e.g. as part of touch plan may be transmitted to the agent to allow the agent to focus on the content of the current section.

That is according to one embodiment a self support option may be initially presented to the customer to allow the customer to browse and search for a solution to its problem. If the customer is not satisfied with the self support articles the customer has an option to contact a live agent for further support. However if the customer looks and finds a solution from the self support knowledgebase the contact with a live agent can be avoided which in turn reduces the cost of the support services. The same described above are to be supported or provided via a community forum an agent support desktop or a user via the client web site etc. The diagram expands more than the text here.

In one embodiment the editor is responsible to ensure information discussed in the article is technically accurate while an approval agent is responsible for any other safeguards such as legal considerations etc. When an article is in a state other than the approved state the article is only exposed or visible to internal personnel such as extractor integrator editor and approval agent s . These personnel may be different people and some people may handle multiple stages. An access control mechanism may be employed to set up proper attributes of a file associated with the article based on the states of the article such that the file may be properly available or visible to proper personnel during different stages of the processes. For example a community forum thread which was asked and answered by one or more people is very difficult to digest in a very long thread e.g. many messages from many people . This thread would be flagged as answered by the original question author. Once flagged the support system extractor would extract the thread to be transformed by and editor or SME subject matter expert into an easy to read and understandable self service article or publication. Most people would not have the patients to steps through a long thread of messages to find that single answer they would abandon their search and make a support call. Once this information is published it then can be leveraged back within the community via search within a web site for self service via an agent desktop supporting new agents etc.

As described above an embodiment of a support center can provide support services for many customers on many products or services provided by many clients substantially concurrently. Some of the clients may be business competitors and their products may be competing products in the market. There may be a tremendous amount of confidential product information which can be revealed from the support history or knowledgebase of the products. Therefore a conventional support center has to separate different agents supporting different clients from accessing other client s product information by setting up a physical or logical wall. However in some situations a problem may be related to multiple products and sometimes these products may be provided by different clients. For example a problem may be related to an external storage device interfaced with a laptop where the storage device and the laptop may be provided by different clients. Typically an agent supporting one of the clients may not have sufficient knowledge to solve the problem without getting help from the knowledge of the other client.

According to one embodiment certain knowledge information across different clients is configured to be shared among agents supporting different products of different clients without disclosing the confidential information of the clients. The common or general knowledge information of a particular technology or technical area can be configured or flagged to be shared for some or all products of some or all clients. Certain client specific knowledge information can also be configured or flagged to be shared dependent upon client s preferences which can be configured by an administrator associated with the client. Knowledge information can be configured to be shared per campaign basis or per project basis etc. As a result an agent can access related knowledge information of related products to provide the best possible support services to a customer with less risk of disclosing confidential information.

In one embodiment information stored in KB may be configured or flagged to be available for certain product support cases and some of the information may be shared among multiple products and or multiple clients. An administrator can configure the KB regarding which part of KB can be shared and which part of KB can only be utilized for a specific product of a specific client. Such configurations may be determined based on client KB configuration profiles . Each of the client KB configuration profiles includes information indicating what information can be shared and what information cannot be shared with another client. Based on the client KB configuration profiles the files of KB may be managed in an appropriate way to be utilized by different agents for supporting different products of different clients.

For example a support interaction comes in via client e.g. a telecom provider about connecting their phone to a computer for the purpose of transferring photos and music. They are requesting support on how to resolve a connection issue with this transfer. The problem in this example may be that of a driver problem in the computers operating system and is beyond the expertise of the telecom agent to support and instructs the customer to call the computer manufacturer to resolve the problem. The call then comes in via client of the computer manufacturer with the same problem. The agent identifies it is not a computer problem but something at the OS layer and escalates to an engineer to resolve. The receiving engineer e.g. a high paid individual helps to resolve the problem and posts an article following proper procedures within the support self service knowledge base. The article via analysis is determined to cover several client verticals and is posted as general knowledge. Now a new customer comes along and depending on the channel they take they can be supported by a via mobile or web based self service knowledge article that can walk the customer through their problem b via a telecom agent armed with the knowledge article c via a computer manufacturer agent armed with the knowledge article and d via a community forum search where the article is made available. In any case the single article is made available through all channels. If this had been an issue specific to a port on the phone the article may not be made available to anyone other than the telecom agent.

According to one embodiment an article or file of KB data can be associated with different programs e.g. projects of a client. An article can also be associated with multiple programs of multiple clients. is a block diagram illustrating associations of clients programs and articles for support services according to one embodiment of the invention. Referring to there are two product categories and in this example. Clients are associated with product category while clients are associated with product category . There are three support programs currently provided by the support center for client in product category . There are three programs currently associated with client in product category . There is one program associated with client and one program associated with client under product category .

In one embodiment each of articles in the knowledgebase is tagged with one or more keywords representing certain terms taxonomy s that are typically used in the industry related to the corresponding product category. In online computer systems terminology a tag is a non hierarchical keyword or term assigned to a piece of information such as an Internet bookmark digital image or computer file . This kind of metadata helps describe an item and allows it to be found again by browsing or searching. Tags are generally chosen informally and personally by the item s creator or by its viewer depending on the system. Labeling and tagging are carried out to perform functions such as aiding in classification marking ownership noting boundaries and indicating online identity. They may take the form of words images or other identifying marks.

In one embodiment a tag can be used to associate an article with a particular product category and or product. The tags may be defined by an administrator or engineer of the support center or the clients in view of security considerations . The list of product categories may be defined as standard categories in the support industry and managed by the support center. The categories may be linked to the articles e.g. via tags and utilized in a search. A category pool may include but is not limited to hardware webcam memory video display keyboard disk drive input device universal serial bus USB and Bluetooth etc. A list of tags may be defined by a client and thus each client may have a different pool of tags. The tags may be managed by the support center and or the client.

Referring back to in this example article has been tagged and associated with program . Article has been tagged and associated with programs . Article has been tagged and associated with different programs of different clients . Thus article is considered as a cross vendor article that may be part of tier of . Article has been tagged and associated with different programs of different clients in different product categories . Thus article is considered as general knowledge in tier of . Article has not been associated with any program which means that article has not been tagged with a keyword related to any program. When an agent attempts to search a solution from a KB the agent may search e.g. from agent desktop for a tag as a search term that is closely related to the product in question. A list of articles may be returned that have been tagged by the tag. As a result the information stored in a KB can be shared across different products of different clients in different product categories for better support services and better use of the content thus having very little to no duplicates of information across the system as a whole. The access control of the articles may be enforced based on tags that are associated with the product categories which may be used to control whether a particular article is available or visible to an agent.

Referring back to in one embodiment access control module is configured to control the access of information stored in KB by agents based on the information provided by touch plans . In this example it is assumed that KB segment can only be utilized by agent for supporting the first product of a first client while KB segment can only be utilized by agent for supporting the second product of a second client. However based on the KB configurations from client KB configuration profiles KB segment may be shared by agents in supporting both products of both clients. In one embodiment access control module may enable KB segments and to be available to agent and enable KB segments and to be available to agent .

In one embodiment KB segment may be stored in a particular storage or a network subnet that agent cannot access while allowing agent to access the information. Similarly KB segment may be stored in another storage or network subnet that agent is not entitled to access while allowing agent to access the information. KB segment may be stored in a storage or network subnet that both agents can access. As a result confidential information of KB segment is not exposed to agent and confidential information of KB segment is not exposed to agent .

The embodiments described above can be applied to a variety of support applications or situations. In this example the product being supported is a mobile phone where a wireless carrier and or phone manufacturer is a client of the support center. In this example it is assumed a cloud based system e.g. systems as shown in is setup and available for customer projects. The cloud based system is a multi tenant system to support many clients and projects and can be scaled to support any client project volume. The cloud based system is monitored and managed by a staff of technologists in various disciplines e.g. administrators agents and or experts . It is assumed that the client has established and selected all communication channels and rules for support and defined all touch plans and business processes e.g. preferred communication channels client and product databases integrated client processing methods available shared knowledgebase etc. which may be done by a client integration system of the support center .

It is also assumed that the customer has already registered with the system. For example the customer may have registered and created a user account in the support center and registered a mobile device by downloading and installing a one touch application associated with the client. The customer may have also registered the product or products with the system by scanning a machine readable code of the product using a scanner or camera of a mobile device and sending the scanned information to the support center via the service API without having to specifically provide product information.

In this example an existing customer needs support and follows the one touch support process and the customer is defaulted to a chat channel to resolve the problem. The client establishes when and where a one touch button for customer service support via their customer Web site based is offered via specific business rules i.e. customer value shopping cart type of service propensity to buy etc. . A returning customer visits the client s web site and logs into the site. The customer requests a service support via the one touch button which in turn communicates with the service API of the support center. In response the system identifies the customer and or client creates a case e.g. unique case ID uniquely identifying the current support session and collects user data. The system collects initial customer information and updates customer account if necessary . System logs all activities of the customer to the customer s interaction account history.

In this example a chat client appears on customer s computer or mobile device. The system touch plan is initiated and creates a unique case for the interaction to track the occurrence and overall interaction where updates are made to the case for every action. The system via a customer chat live calls up the chat application. The system receives chat request from Customer computer and places it into a project queue where some rules may apply. The system locates an available associate specialist e.g. agent or expert and routes the customer chat to the associate specialist. The system also routes the touch plan as part of support case context including all the necessary information associated with the customer client and the product being supported. For example the system performs a data dip to find associated customer information and interaction history for customer.

The system causes a screen pop to be displayed at the associate specialists desktop with the associated customer information and interaction history. The system touch plan engine creates a custom email based on an email template defined by the client which may be part of the associated client integration system and sends a case notification to the customer e.g. notification channel having been setup or preferred by the customer based on initiating the service support interaction. The touch plan causes an appropriate component of the system to start logging all transaction steps of manual and or automated steps processes with updates visible via dashboard and reporting. The associate specialist s desktop displays start of interaction including all customer data and interaction history.

In this example the customer requests a replacement phone since customer s phone is damaged. The associate specialist reviews customer contract and starts a process to sell replacement device to customer. The system touch plan receives an event from the associate specialist desktop that they are looking into a phone change upgrade replacement on behalf of the customer. The system touch plan calls an equipment review business process based on the phone replacement request and customer data completes successfully and presents a result to the associate specialist. In addition the associate specialist is prompted via desktop with an upsell option to provide to the customer with a Smartphone equal to or better in price than the replacement phone. The associate specialist presents the upsell option to the customer and the customer makes a selection.

In response the system touch plan based on phone selection calls a contract review business process based on the Smartphone request completes successfully and presents a result to the associate specialist. Further the associate specialist is prompted via desktop with another upsell option of an unlimited service plan with more options for a slight monthly increase. The associate specialist presents the upsell option to the customer and the customer makes a selection. It is assumed that the customer agrees to both upsell options. The associate specialist submits a new phone order to the client system. The associate specialist collects proper payment information and finalizes order in the client system e.g. via integrated or partner service API . The system touch plan then calls a payment authorization business process based on finalized order and receives purchase confirmation e.g. from a third party payment facility via the integrated or partner service API .

The system touch plan then calls a new equipment order business process based on phone order and receives order confirmation and possibly calls a client fulfillment system. The system touch plan measures the response time of request and makes customer feedback score results visible via dashboard and reporting. The system touch plan calls a service change business process based on the contract service change. The system touch plan measures the response time of request and makes results visible via dashboard and reporting. The system touch plan during interaction creates a custom email and sends the phone order service change notification optional to the customer based on the customer s order. The associate specialist completes the interaction with the customer and disconnects the chat.

The system touch plan however may remain open. The system touch plan at the end of interaction creates a custom email and sends a case completion summary notification to the customer based on the interaction with a survey. The system touch plan measures customer s response to the survey to rank customer experience determining an alteration escalation live interaction etc. of the touch plan or continue on current path in this example the system determines no alteration is needed. The system touch plan then calls a ship equipment business process based on the completed order and queues shipment to customer. The system touch plan measures response time of request and makes results visible via dashboard and reporting.

In the event that the customer is a new customer visiting the client s web site for the first time and chooses not to register to create a new account and does not log into the web site but requests service support then the client will not be identified and no data except anonymous data will be collected by the system. In the event a returning customer does not log into the web site and requests service support then the client is not identified but a case is created and data collected.

The embodiments described above can also be applied to healthcare monitoring of a nutrition network where a nutritionist is a client of the support center. In this example it is assumed that a client has set up the project in the support center and a patient has installed client s one touch application on its mobile device. In addition the patient has performed the user registration and device registration with the support center. Based on patient s personal profile the system knows the location and time zone of the patient. The nutritionist has set up notification rules in the support system e.g. as part of integrated client rules database or profile . In this project or service the patient is supposedly keeping a daily diary e.g. log of intakes of food to be monitored by a nutritionist for medical or fitness purposes.

Normally the patient runs the one touch application from its mobile device and opens its daily diary. The patient needs to capture a meal by selecting the appropriate day then captures an image of the meal using a camera of the mobile device. The patient is prompted by the application to specify a type of meal e.g. breakfast lunch dinner or others . In this example the patient specifies the type of meal as breakfast. The patient is then prompted by the application to enter a description of the meal e.g. type of food condiments etc. . In this example the patient may enter 1 2 eggs over medium 2 a slice of toast with no butter and 3 1 cup of coffee with light sugar. The patient is prompted by the application to enter a time the meal was consumed. The patient then saves the diary entry and receives a confirmation that the entry was saved. The patient on a daily basis captures its weight and logs it in its diary. The system receives a notification that the patient has posted a new diary entry. In response the system saves the entry and sends a confirmation back to the patient.

The system e.g. an automated agent reviews the entered data from the patient against a library of good and bad food intake identifying any items not allowed or not recommended in the patient s diet and updates the diary entry. The system analyzes daily weight of the patient and compares it with the projected goals. The system calculates the assumptive calorie intake and updates the diary entry. The system calculates overall goals and trend report for the nutritionist on the patient. The system creates a daily summary of the patient s activity and emails the daily summary to the nutritionist. When the nutritionist receives email notification of patient diary entries for the day the nutritionist can click a link in email and is taken to the patient s diary page and goals trend report in the nutrition Web application. The nutritionist then reviews patient diary entries and goals trend report and may post comments to the patient in reply of the diary post s . The comments are received by the patient s application on the mobile device.

When there is a need to meet the patient in person or over a live conference the nutritionist can create a calendar entry based on the availability of the patient e.g. presence information and submit the calendar entry to the system. The patient receives notification via their application of a scheduled meeting with the nutritionist and meets with the nutritionist accordingly. During the meeting the nutritionist can validate all of the data according to the plan.

In the event that the patient needs to modify or update the daily diary entry the patient can also do that via its one touch application from its mobile device. For example if the patient realizes that something was left out on one of the meals for the day the patient can add that to the entry via the one touch application. The system receives the notification that the patient has posted an updated diary entry. In response the system saves the update replies a confirmation to the patient and updates the log file of the patient for tracking and auditing purposes. In addition the system may have to reanalyze the food intake recalculate calorie intake and reassess the goal and trend report based on the patient s update.

Subsequently the system reviews the data entered from the patient against a library of good and bad food intake identifying any items not allowed or not recommended in the Patients diet and updates the diary entry based on the assumptive calorie intake and generating a trend report for the nutritionist. The report is then transmitted to the nutritionist and the patient is informed. Based on the patient s profile and or nutritionist s setting the system may create a daily summary of the patient s activity and emails the summary to the nutritionist.

In the event that the nutritionist does not receive the summary or report the nutritionist can notify the system. For example the nutritionist can select one of the communication channels such as a chat function on its application e.g. Web application to contact e.g. via a service API a support specialist e.g. agent of the support center for assistance. A support specialist enters the chat opens a case e.g. tracked by a unique case ID and collects the problem information from the nutritionist. The support specialist then fixes the problem for the nutritionist.

In the event that the system identifies that something goes wrong based on the analysis of patient s diary entries the nutritionist may receive an early notification from the support system. For example the nutritionist receives an email notification of patient s diary entries early due to an item identified from the NOT allowed diet foods. The nutritionist clicks a link in the email and is taken to the patient s diary page and goals trend report in their nutrition Web application. The nutritionist reviews patient s diary entries and goals trend report. The nutritionist can select a click to call button from the Web application to contact the patient discuss the problem with the patient and establish a corrective action.

In some situations the system may identify some items in the patient s diary report that are not in accordance with the plan based on the analysis. For example the system reviews the data entered from the patient against a library of good and bad food intake to identify any items that are not allowed or not recommended in the patient s diet. The system may identify an exception to report based on an item entered by the patient where this item was identified from the NOT allowed diet foods. The system calculates the assumptive calorie intake and updates the diary entry. The system further calculates overall goals and trend report for nutritionist on the patient updates a daily summary of the patient s activity and emails the summary to the nutritionist immediately.

In response the nutritionist can provide a corrective intervention or action based on patient s daily goals and trend. The nutritionist after discussing the problem with the patient and setting corrective action can sets a flag on the patient s diary for immediate notification for a period of time e.g. number of meals or number of days to monitor patient s activities closely.

The embodiments described above can also be applied to payment support for certain products or services. For example the techniques described above can be applied to payment support of hotel services where the hotel service provider is a client of the support center. In this example it is assumed that a client supports customer check in via magnetic strip card loyalty credit card other . The client supports customer check in via a near field communications NFC enabled device. A client project has already been set up and configured on the support center. A customer already has a digital wallet client application e.g. one touch application loaded on its mobile device. The customer has already registered with a client site setting up profile preferences payment specifics and digital wallet ID etc. The customer has set up a reservation with quick check in based on digital wallet ID.

When the customer arrives at the hotel and approaches quick check in at a kiosk near the front desk the customer uses NFC enabled device to check in. The customer activates scan of NFC device for check in and scan is accepted. The system communicatively coupled to the kiosk receives an NFC request and information from customer device. The system pulls up customer folio and presents to the customer at the kiosk for review. The customer is asked to review and confirm reservation specifics and is noted how all charges are to be handled. In addition the system determines from customer history etc. an upsell offer available and presents the offer to customer. For example the customer is presented with an upsell for a larger room if paid for using its digital wallet ID during the stay. If the customer accepts the system applies changes to room selection rate and assigns room for guest. Thereafter the system authorizes Customer digital wallet for access.

Further the system determines from customer history etc. a coupon available and presents the coupon or coupons to the customer and applies coupon specifics to digital wallet. The customer is presented with loyalty discount opportunities available at the restaurant and bar if paid for using its digital wallet ID during the stay. The customer is presented with a welcome message and information about activities available during the stay. The system may further determine activities the customer would be interested in based on the customer profile and present the same to the customer. Once the check in process is done the customer heads to the hotel room and uses NFC device instead of guest room card to access the room. The system matches NFC information to customer list to determine access and the access is granted.

In another scenario if the kiosk does not accept the check in scanning e.g. NFC device fails the system detects the problem and prompts the customer to use their credit card instead. Meanwhile the kiosk sends an error event to the support system where the support system logs the customer event it has received during the NFC scan error possibly multiple times . In response to the error event the support center creates a unique case ID and a touch plan tracked by the case ID as described above.

The touch plan engine forwards the touch plan to an available support specialist with all the necessary data e.g. client product history etc. Meanwhile the customer pulls ut a credit card and swipes backup to NFC and the customer is prompted with a click to call option to resolve the issue. If the customer selects click to call option from the kiosk the customer is routed to the available support associate currently working issue via VoIP on the Kiosk. The support specialist receives the call updates case reviews and resolves the problem if possible during call. The customer is asked to perform a test scan of their NFC device which works successfully. The support specialist updates case and closes the touch plan and sends a summary of interaction to customer via an email.

The embodiments described above can also be applied to ticketing support in a concert environment where the tickets are provided by a client of the support center. In this example it is assumed that the client already supports customer check in via near field chip NFC enabled devices or barcode enabled devices. A client project has already been set up and configured in the support center e.g. client profile or rules . A customer has a mobile device as a digital wallet with a client application e.g. one touch application loaded on the mobile device. The customer has already registered with a client site setting up profile preferences payment specifics and digital wallet ID etc.

It is also assumed that the customer has purchased ticket s for a concert via a mobile application or Web e.g. Ticketmaster.com Cheaptickets.com Livenation.com Gotickets.com Ticketsnow.com etc. and the system emails the customer the ticket s upon completion of the purchase e.g. barcode . The customer receives emailed tickets via its mobile device or PC to be used at a venue ticket scanner. The system sends the customer a notification to use the ticketed line once at the theatre based on rules history perk . The customer receives a notice to use the ticketed line at the venue perk for pre purchase and arrives at the venue with the purchased ticket to see a concert.

The customer enters the ticketed line to scan ticket s at a kiosk puts them ahead of people just making ticket purchase . The customer scans ticket s and is confirmed for the concert and receives a coupon from the system via their mobile for a discount off their concession purchase. The customer proceeds to concession for other goods e.g. drinks or snacks using its mobile wallet as well as the coupon received at ticket check in to purchase concession items. The system accepts the purchase from the customer s mobile wallet and applies the discount provided at check in. The consumer proceeds to the venue hall to watch the concert. Further the customer receives notification upon completion of concert of an upcoming concert meeting their preconfigured profile music preferences and elects to pre order tickets and makes purchase via mobile application wallet. The system accepts funds and emails new ticket s for concert and the customer leaves the venue.

In another scenario the customer never receives the ticket s purchased and calls support line from its mobile device to locate status of tickets while heading to the concert venue. The system received the call and forwards to a specialist support queue. A support specialist receives the call and is communication with the customer. The customer describes problem and the support specialist identifies a problem and corrects the problem e.g. email in profile incorrect changes and resubmits . In this example the system updates email address and resends tickets to customers email address.

At the entrance of the concert the customer tries to scan the ticket in the email but the system will not accept. The system identifies that customer s scan is not working and prompts the customer at its mobile device to speak with a specialist. The customer clicks a call button to accept and the system places the call to customer then connects to a support specialist. The customer describes problem and the support specialist identifies and corrects the problem e.g. scanner on kiosk or NFC device is bad . The support specialist checks the customer in and sends a confirmation receipt to the customer.

The embodiments described above can also be applied to support an eBook on an eBook reader provided by a client of the support center. In this example a customer has purchased an eBook from a vendor such as an ePub from Google where an ePub is an Adobe Adept Digital Rights Management DRM document for Google viewer. An ePub must have DRM transferred converted from Google to Nook e.g. an eBook format from Barnes Noble Adept DRM . It is assumed that the customer has already performed user and product registration and made changes to their profile for support using some of the techniques described above such as for example one touch registration processes set forth above.

In this example the customer has purchased an ePub from Google and would like to view on a Nook reader. However the customer has trouble trying to convert document for viewing on a Nook device. For example the customer places an ePub file on the Nook device and cannot read. The customer goes to Nook support Web site e.g. client hosted support site and searches knowledgebase for support articles which may be prepared and published by the support center using some of the self support techniques described above. The customer is presented with a document on how to convert the Google Adept DRM to Nook Adept DRM such that the document can be read on its Nook device. The customer is instructed to go to the Adobe Web site link provided within the document to download and install Adobe Digital Editions for transferring rights to the nook device. The customer opens Digital Editions and is asked to plug in the Nook device and the Digital Editions mounts the Nook device. The customer is instructed to drag ePub from its computer to the Nook device and the conversion is performed. The customer opens the eBook on the Nook device to verify book can be viewed successfully.

However in some situations there may be a problem for the customer to convert the eBook even after reviewing the self support articles. For the purposes of illustration it is assumed that the customer searches the knowledgebase e.g. procedure to convert the DRM does not find an article to assist. The customer may go to an online community forum and cannot get help from anyone. The customer is frustrated and enters a chat with a support specialist for proper directions to convert. In this example the customer from the forum clicks on a chat now button e.g. one touch button to initiate a request for a live session with a support specialist e.g. agent or expert . The request may be received at the support center via the service API described above.

In response to the request the support system creates a session case ID that uniquely identifies the current instant of support case and initiates a touch plan. The support specialist enters a chat session with the customer and informs the customer that they can perform the entire process for them for a fee. It is assumed that the customer agrees and provides proper billing information. The support specialist captures billing information and submits order for support interaction for example using a third party billing system via an integrated or partner service API. The support specialist asks the customer to plug the Nook into the computer instructs the customer to navigate to a link and enter a code for a remote computer control session.

The support specialist goes to the Adobe s Web site downloads and installs Adobe Digital Editions for transferring rights to the nook onto the customer s computer. The support specialist opens the Digital Editions and the Digital Editions mounts the Nook device. The support specialist drags the ePub file from the computer to Nook device and conversion is performed. The support specialist asks the customer via chat to open the eBook on the Nook device to verify that the eBook can be viewed. The customer confirms that the eBook can be read and the support specialist ends remote control of the customer s computer. The support specialist submits final case information and ends the session with the customer.

The embodiments described above can also be applied to support travel situations such as a vacation trip. In this situation a customer of a support center may be a traveler who is presented with a multitude of potential issues or mishaps while executing on a travel itinerary setup by the traveler or someone else. In the case of simple events the traveler can be overcome easily but when more complex events happen e.g. cascading events the traveler is left in a bad state and cannot be helped by any one vendor whom they have purchased assets for travel from.

The example set forth below is in reality a worst case scenario for a consumer and demonstrates the ramifications cascading events or domino effect of a single issue effecting reservations and events downstream. In this example it is assumed that a traveler for a given trip will need to schedule the following 

The customer embarks on their travel leaving on the shuttle to the airport. While in transit to the airport the shuttle encounters an accident on the highway. Due to the accident the shuttle arrives late to the airport and the customer misses its flight to Miami. Typically the customer goes to the airline and is re ticketed for the next flight out. The customer s baggage must be located to forward to the new flight. The customer travels on the flight to Miami arrives and takes a shuttle to the hotel. Since its flight was late the customer arrives at the hotel late. Not having flagged the reservation with a late check in their room was given to someone else. They are not able to get a new room at the same hotel so they have to move to a motel that has an open room. They get to their room and turn in for the night. The next day they embark on their cruise.

Once they return from the cruise the customer who will be staying a couple days in Miami calls the rental car company to find that the reservation for a mid size car made weeks ago has been lost and all that is available is a sub compact. The customer takes the car and travels to their new hotel room during their Miami stay and checks in. They then go sightseeing in Miami in their sub compact. Once their sightseeing excursion is over they embark for the airport for their trip home. Upon arriving at the airport they find that their flight is delayed due to poor weather they are rebooked onto a later flight and depart for home. Once at their home airport they pick up their baggage and head to the shuttle finding that they have missed it due to the flight delay. They must wait for two hours for the next shuttle. Once the shuttle arrives they head for home.

The above hassles can be avoided or reduced if the traveler becomes a customer of the support center and takes advantage of support services from the support center. Note that the above event services may be provided by multiple different vendors or service providers. For example the ride to and back from the airport may be provided by the same or different taxi shuttle bus or car rental companies. The hotel stays prior to and after the cruise may be provided by the same or different hotels or hotel chains. The flights to and back from Miami may be provided by the same or different airline companies. It would be a nightmare for the customer to rearrange the schedule for some of the events with individual vendors or service providers.

The customer may purchase a travel package from a client of the support center such as Expedia and has registered with the support center. As described above the customer may register with the support center by sending a copy of electronic receipt s itinerary or eTicket s or a transaction ID of the purchase to the support center from a one touch application from its mobile device without having to provide all the necessary information concerning all of the reservations from various vendors. The support center can compile all of the necessary information from various sources e.g. from vendors via integrated or partner APIs .

Once the travel package has been registered with the support center a touch plan is created specifically tailored to the travel schedule. In addition relationships amongst the activities or events are identified or determined. All activities and events occurring from each activity are monitored and managed accordingly by the support center. That is the support center has all the tools and connections with at least some of the vendors or service providers e.g. via integrated or partner APIs to rearrange the schedule on behalf of the customer and or client without requiring the customer to individually contact the vendors or service providers.

In this example on the way to Miami the system may receive real time traffic information from a traffic report service provider for example via an integrated or partner service API. Based on the touch plan the system can notify e.g. via the driver of the shuttle of the situation on the highway and provide an alternate route to the airport to possibly get the consumer there in time for their flight.

If the shuttle still arrives late at the airport the system can automatically rebook the customer for a different flight even on an alternate airline and notify the customer of the change as well as updating and sending new eTickets to customer s mobile device. In addition having rebooked the flight the system tracks the reroute of the consumer s baggage to ensure they end up on the proper flight. Further the consumer s hotel reservations are updated by the system for a late check in such that the room is not assigned to someone else. All these operations are proactively performed by the support center without having the customer to initiate the rearrangement.

Similarly on the way back from Miami the system manages the confirmation of the rental car. If the rental car is not available the system can book a car at another car rental agency and alerts the consumer on their mobile device. Due to the poor weather experienced the airport has delayed flights. The system monitoring the flight for the consumer automatically rebooks the flight for the next available alerts the consumer and sends the customer a new eTicket for rebooked flight. The shuttle driver is alerted that a consumer and family are arriving from Miami and meets them at baggage claim for their ride home.

As shown in the computer system which is a form of a data processing system includes a bus or interconnect which is coupled to one or more microprocessors and a ROM a volatile RAM and a non volatile memory . The microprocessor is coupled to cache memory . The bus interconnects these various components together and also interconnects these components and to a display controller and display device as well as to input output I O devices which may be mice keyboards modems network interfaces printers and other devices which are well known in the art.

Typically the input output devices are coupled to the system through input output controllers . The volatile RAM is typically implemented as dynamic RAM DRAM which requires power continuously in order to refresh or maintain the data in the memory. The non volatile memory is typically a magnetic hard drive a magnetic optical drive an optical drive or a DVD RAM or other type of memory system which maintains data even after power is removed from the system. Typically the non volatile memory will also be a random access memory although this is not required.

While shows that the non volatile memory is a local device coupled directly to the rest of the components in the data processing system the present invention may utilize a non volatile memory which is remote from the system such as a network storage device which is coupled to the data processing system through a network interface such as a modem or Ethernet interface. The bus may include one or more buses connected to each other through various bridges controllers and or adapters as is well known in the art. In one embodiment the I O controller includes a USB Universal Serial Bus adapter for controlling USB peripherals. Alternatively I O controller may include an IEEE 1394 adapter also known as FireWire adapter for controlling FireWire devices.

As described above when the one touch application is launched the one touch application is configured to communicate with the support center via a set of APIs. A user can log in and access its existing account via button which in turn access the existing account at the support center. If the user does not have an existing account the user can also create a new account via button . When button is activated the GUI page as shown in is displayed which is a part of account page . In one embodiment the GUI page as shown in allows the user to enter any user specific information such as for example name email address es phone number s address es social site s and other information such as preferences not shown etc. For example a user can activate social site to specify one or more social sites in which the user has an account such as social sites as shown in . By specifying social sites the user gives a consent or permission to the system to access its information via the corresponding social sites not limited to shown .

In one embodiment a user can also specify support communication preferences by activating the corresponding preference item not shown from the list displayed on the GUI page as shown in . A preference setting page as shown in allows a user to specify one or more communication channels such as voice chat email and other channels e.g. video chat SMS scheduled call back etc. . Such communication preferences of the user can be used in combination of communication preferences of a client to determine availability of communication channels to allow the user to reach an agent of the support center during a subsequent support service as described above. The user can also specify via setting whether the system can utilize global positioning system GPS location services to provide geographical location information of the user e.g. presence information as part of support services provided to the user. By enabling GPS location services the user gives consent or permission to the system for such a usage for the purpose of privacy concerns.

In one embodiment GUI page further includes button to register an additional product. When button is activated GUI page is displayed as shown in . GUI page allows a user to register a product via variety current of mechanisms as well as future mechanisms as they are technically made available. A user can register a product by scanning a barcode or barcodes of a product via link or scanning a QR code or codes of a product via link . Alternatively a user can manually enter product information via link .

For the purpose of illustration it is assumed that the user wishes to register a product by scanning a barcode via link . According to one embodiment when link is activated GUI page is displayed as shown in . Referring to in this embodiment a user can scan a barcode using GUI page to register a product. The user can place barcode of the product within scanning window to obtain product ID and or serial number of the product. The scanned information is then transmitted from the mobile device to the support center to allow the system to compile the necessary information about the product and or user. As described above the system can communicate with all the parties e.g. retailer manufacturer etc. via proper service APIs to automatically obtain information such as product information loyalty information or the like without user intervention. For certain information that cannot be obtained automatically the user can manually enter the information. The detailed information can then be stored in a customer asset store e.g. asset store of .

In one embodiment the product detailed information can be retrieved from the support center and displayed on the mobile device as part of GUI page as shown in . Referring to the displayed product detailed information includes but not limited to the product ID serial number purchase date and warranty information etc. In addition GUI page further includes one or more links to allow a user to access other information associated with the corresponding product. In one embodiment link allows a user to access a notification issued on the product such as an offer to upgrade or discount a recall notification etc. Link allows a user to access the detailed specification of the product. Link allows a user to access documents such as user manuals of the product. Link allows a user to access an online community e.g. discussion forum associated with the product. Note that GUI page can also be accessed or displayed by selecting one of the registered products e.g. product from GUI page of .

According to one embodiment GUI page further includes button to allow a user to obtain one touch support services from the support center. When button is activated from GUI page of GUI page is displayed as shown in . Within GUI page according to one embodiment a list of one or more communication channels or mechanisms that are available to a user to contact a support agent is displayed. In this example the available communication channels include voice while chat and email are unavailable. As described above the availability of the communication channels is determined based on user s preferences and client s preferences. Note that for purposes of illustration only voice chat and email are utilized examples of communication channels other communication channels such as video chat SMS call back etc. can also be utilized. Assuming that chat is available in this example a user can launch a chat session with an agent of the support center to obtain support services as shown in .

Similar to product registration according to one embodiment a loyalty or reward card of a client e.g. retailer can also be registered with the support center via the one touch application. are screenshots representing examples of graphical user interfaces of a one touch application according to another embodiment of the invention. For example GUI page of can be retrieved and displayed by activating loyalty tab from other GUI pages which lists a list of registered loyalty programs of the user. Referring to a user can also search a registered loyalty program using search tool . A user can also register an additional loyalty program by activating button which displays GUI page as shown in . From GUI page the user can register a loyalty program by either scanning a barcode of a loyalty card via link or manually entering the information via link . If the user wishes register via scanning the user can activate link which displays the GUI page as shown in . Similar to scanning barcodes of a product from the GUI page of a user can register a loyalty program by scanning a barcode of a loyalty card or reward card.

Based on the information obtain from the scanning or from the user detailed loyalty information can be obtained by the support center from proper informal sources via proper APIs. The detailed information can also be retrieved from the system and displayed as GUI page on the mobile device as shown in . Referring to from GUI page a user can access one or more offers e.g. rewards discounts upgrades from the program via link . The user can also find a nearby office via link access an online community associated with the program via link and access the program s Web site via link . If the user needs to talk to a live agent concerning the corresponding loyalty program the user can activate support button which brings the user to a support GUI page similar those as shown in .

Referring to from GUI page a user can search for an item that is interesting to the user using search tool . For example a user can search on the Internet for an item the user wishes for. Alternatively the user can scan using scanning tool a barcode or QR code of the wished product. This is useful when a user is shopping in a retail store in that the user can scan the barcode of the product in order to add the product into its wish list. In one embodiment for each of the items listed in the wish list the user can review other people s comments about the product by activating button which brings a list of comments from other users as shown in . In addition the user can also compare the product with another one by activating button which displays comparison GUI page as shown in . From the GUI page of each of the products listed also includes information indicating whether the corresponding product is currently owned by the user. Further the user can display detailed comparison information e.g. side by side information by activating button . Note that the GUI page as shown in can also be displayed via link of and the GUI page as shown in can also be displayed via link of .

Referring now to a user can also obtain support services from the support center to obtain information about accessories associated with a particular product. In one embodiment GUI page can be displayed via link of . GUI page includes a list of products that have been registered. Each of the listed products includes a button to accessorize the corresponding product such as button . When the button in this example button is activated GUI page is displayed. In one embodiment GUI page includes a list of accessories including retailers from which the accessories can be purchased e.g. via link of . All of the information is obtained and provided by the support center where the support center communicates with each of the retailers via a proper API to obtain the detailed information as described above without requiring user s manual efforts.

According to one embodiment a user can also access self support knowledge such as most asked questions via link of . When link is activated GUI page of is displayed. GUI page includes a list of answers to most viewed questions asked by other users on the same or similar product. The information may be compiled by the support center e.g. self support modules of based on data collected from a variety of informational sources as described above. The list of articles displayed may also be compiled based on user s profile such as registered products and or historical interaction or purchases. Detailed answers to each of questions such as question can be displayed in this example as GUI page via the corresponding link as shown in . Referring to an article concerning detailed answer is displayed on the GUI page. In addition the user can rate the article which contributes to the overall rating of the article. Further based on the article the system also compiles and provides a list of suggested articles that may be related to the currently displayed article or is the next typical article other users have reviewed in conjunction with the first.

According to one embodiment for each of the registered products the support center can also provide services to a user to sell the product at a variety of ecommerce platforms. In one embodiment a user can activate link to arrange selling one or more of its registered products. When link is activated selling GUI page is displayed as shown in . GUI page lists all the products that have been registered with the support center. A user can sell any one of them by activating a sell button of the corresponding product. For example a user can sell product by activating sell button which displays GUI page as a posting helper. From GUI page the user can specify one or more selling platforms or venues to sell the corresponding product. The user can also specify the selling or auction price and payment method as shown in . In one embodiment the posting helper provides a user interface to query the user concerning certain conditions of the product to be sold. Based on the condition information received from the user the system can estimate a market price to be sold or auctioned. Such an estimate may be generated by the system based on the market condition and or other users transactions on similar products. After the sale has been posted the selected selling platforms are also displayed on GUI page as shown in .

Referring back to for some products such as product based on the available information the processing logic may determine that it is time to recycle the product. In one embodiment when a user attempts selling or disposing a product a disposal helper may be displayed and utilized to collect condition information of the product. Based on the information received from the user and the market condition the disposal helper may suggest whether the product should be disposed or sold. If the system determines that the product should be disposed recycle button is displayed which when activated the processing logic is configured to arrange a recycle vendor to pick up and or dispose the corresponding product. The disposal helper may further provide suggestions to dispose if the user decides to dispose itself. As a result the user does not have to individually find a recycling vendor to handle the recycle. Note that the disposal GUI can also be displayed via link of . Note that GUIs as shown in and A L are shown and described for the purposes of illustration only other formats or layouts may also be applied herein.

Some portions of the preceding detailed descriptions have been presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the ways used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of operations leading to a desired result. The operations are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the above discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as those set forth in the claims below refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

Embodiments of the invention also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. Such a computer program is stored in a non transitory computer readable medium. A machine readable medium includes any mechanism for storing information in a form readable by a machine e.g. a computer . For example a machine readable e.g. computer readable medium includes a machine e.g. a computer readable storage medium e.g. read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media flash memory devices .

The processes or methods depicted in the preceding figures may be performed by processing logic that comprises hardware e.g. circuitry dedicated logic etc. software e.g. embodied on a non transitory computer readable medium or a combination of both. Although the processes or methods are described above in terms of some sequential operations it should be appreciated that some of the operations described may be performed in a different order. Moreover some operations may be performed in parallel rather than sequentially.

Embodiments of the present invention are not described with reference to any particular programming language. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of embodiments of the invention as described herein.

In the foregoing specification embodiments of the invention have been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments thereof. It will be evident that various modifications may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the following claims. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative sense rather than a restrictive sense.

