---

title: Low-profile lens mount
abstract: Disclosed is a housing for a portable handheld electronic device such as a cellphone. The device has a housing, having a left side and right side. At least one of the left side and right side is provided with integral surface features or surface structures to enhance gripping the cellphone, preferably along the entire length of the phone or within about the top half or one third of the phone.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09568808&OS=09568808&RS=09568808
owner: 
number: 09568808
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20150807
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application 62 034 446 filed Aug. 7 2014. The entirety of the foregoing application is hereby incorporated by reference herein.

The capability of small form factor low profile imaging devices continues to advance. For instance certain point and shoot cameras action cameras as well as smartphones and other camera equipped handheld electronic devices have begun to support still image and motion video capture at relatively high resolution levels and or frame rates.

As just one example the Samsung Galaxy S6 smartphone which is about 142 millimeters mm tall about 70 mm wide and only about 7 mm inches thick has a rear camera with a 16 megapixel MP sensor capable of shooting UHD 4K resolution video 3840 2160 pixels at 30 frames per second 30 fps . Such high end capabilities and feature sets were previously only associated with bulkier professional level digital cameras including digital single lens reflex DSLR cameras and high end e.g. cinema grade digital video cameras.

Despite these technological advances in some areas todays more compact image devices are often not compatible with the types of high quality lenses typically used in conjunction with high end DSLRs and digital video cameras.

In some embodiments a low profile positive lock camera component which is lockable and removable from a camera is disclosed. The low profile positive lock camera component includes a stationary plate having a central aperture a rotatable lock ring carried by the stationary plate and at least two rotatable projections coupled to the lock ring and carried on a camera side of the camera component that is opposite a lens side of the camera component. The rotation of the lock ring rotates the projections about a central axis and also advances the projections along the axis in the direction of the stationary plate.

The low profile positive lock camera component of the preceding paragraph can include one or more of the following features The stationary plate is a portion of a telephone housing. Each of the projections has a compression surface arranged parallel to and facing a compression surface of the stationary plate and the compression surfaces of the projections move closer to the compression surface as the stationary plate as the projections advance along the axis in the direction in the direction of the stationary plate. The camera component is a camera lens. The camera component is a lens mount adapter. The stationary plate and the rotatable projections comprise a first interface of the lens mount adapter configured to allow for removable attachment of the camera component to a corresponding interface on an imaging device housing and the camera component further comprises a second interface provided on the lens side of the camera component configured to allow for removable attachment of a camera lens thereto. The camera component is configured to fasten to a corresponding support on a housing of an imaging device forming an effective flange focal distance of no more than about 25 millimeters. The effective flange focal distance is no more than about 20 millimeters. The effective flange focal distance is 18 millimeters. The effective flange focal distance is 19.25 millimeters. The first mounting interface is a male interface and the second mounting interface is a female interface. The low profile positive lock camera component includes at least three rotatable projections. The low profile positive lock camera component includes six rotatable projections centered on 60 degree spacing about the axis. The low profile positive lock camera component includes four rotatable projections centered on 90 degree spacing about the axis. The low profile positive lock camera component includes at least two projections on the stationary plate. The low profile positive lock camera component includes four projections on the stationary plate. The low profile positive lock camera component includes six projections on the stationary plate. The rotatable projections are movable between a first position in which they are rotationally aligned with the projections on the stationary plate and a second position in which they are rotationally offset from the projections on the stationary plate. The low profile positive lock camera component includes a first plurality of electrical contacts on a camera side of the lens mount and a second plurality of electrical contacts on a lens side of the lens mount. The first plurality of electrical contacts has a different configuration than the second plurality of electrical contacts. The lock ring is threadably coupled to the stationary plate.

In some embodiments a support having an aperture configured to receive an optical element is disclosed. The support includes a support front surface a support rear surface and a thickness there between a side wall of the aperture extending between the support front surface and support rear surface and at least two arcuate flanges extending radially inwardly from the side wall into the aperture each flange having a flange front surface which is recessed from the support front surface and a flange rear surface which is recessed from the support rear surface. The support forms a female side of a positive lock mounting system.

The support of the preceding paragraph can include one or more of the following features The support includes an optical element seating cavity having a periphery defined by a forward portion of the sidewall which extends from the support front surface to the flange front surfaces. The periphery of the seating cavity is contoured to accommodate a corresponding contoured periphery surface of the optical element. The contour of the periphery of the seating cavity includes a keying feature configured to allow for single orientation insertion of the optical element into the aperture. The support comprises a surface on a camera. The support comprises a surface on a cell phone. The support is provided on a lens side of a lens mount adapter. The support comprises a plate configured for attachment to a cell phone. The support includes at least four arcuate flanges extending radially inwardly from the side wall into the aperture. The at least four arcuate flanges are substantially equally spaced about the periphery of the aperture. The support includes an alignment keying feature provided on the sidewall configured to provide for single orientation insertion of the optical element.

In some embodiments a support having an aperture configured to receive an optical element is disclosed. The support includes a support front surface a support rear surface and a thickness there between a side wall of the aperture extending between the support front surface and support rear surface and at least two arcuate flanges extending radially inwardly from the side wall into the aperture each flange having a flange front surface which is recessed from the support front surface and a flange rear surface which is recessed from the support rear surface. The support does not include a rotatable locking ring or a spring configured to assist in fastening the optical element to the support.

The support of the preceding paragraph can include one or more of the following features The support does not implement a bayonet style mount. The support implements a female portion of a positive lock mount.

In some embodiments an imaging system includes a housing at least one image sensor within the housing a support carried by the housing and having an aperture configured to receive an optical element wherein light emanating from outside the housing travels through the aperture and is incident on the image sensor. The support includes a support front surface a support rear surface and a thickness there between a side wall of the aperture extending between the support front surface and support rear surface and at least two flanges extending radially inwardly from the side wall into the aperture. The support forms a female side of a positive lock mounting interface.

The imaging system of the preceding paragraph can include one or more of the following features Each of the flanges has a flange front surface that is recessed from the support front surface and a flange rear surface which is recessed from the support rear surface. A native flange focal distance of the imaging system is no more than about 15 millimeters. A native flange focal distance of the imaging system is no more than about 10 millimeters. A native flange focal distance of the imaging system is about 8 millimeters. The imaging system includes a lens component implementing the male side of the positive lock mounting interface and configured for removable attachment to the support. The lens component comprises a lens or a lens mount adapter. The lens component comprises a lens mount adapter and an effective flange focal distance of the imaging system with the lens component attached to the support is no more than about 20 mm.

In some embodiments a lens mount adapter which is lockable and removable from a camera is disclosed. The lens mount adapter includes a rotatable lock ring extending circumferentially around a central aperture a lens flange surface extending circumferentially around the aperture the lens flange surface normal to a central axis extending through the aperture a post movably mounted with respect to the lens flange surface a button coupled to the lock ring. The button engages the post when the lock ring is rotated to a first position and is displaced from the post when the lock ring is rotated away from the first position.

The lens mount adapter of the preceding paragraph can include one or more of the following features The button and post engage one another via a tongue and groove connection. Actuation of the button when the button is engaged with the post causes the post to move from an extended position in which the post extends beyond the flange surface to a retracted position in which the post does not extend beyond the flange surface. The post is mounted to a spring the spring changing from a relaxed state to a compressed state when the button moves from the extended position to the retracted position. The lens mount adapter includes at least two rotatable projections coupled to the lock ring and the rotation of the lock ring rotates the projections about a central axis and also advances the projections along the axis. The lens mount adapter includes a stationary plate threadably connected to the lock ring and the rotation of the lock ring in a first direction advances the projections along the axis in a direction of the stationary plate and rotation of the lock ring in a second direction advances the projections along the axis in a direction away from the stationary plate. The lens mount adapter is configured to allow for an effective flange focal depth of less than or equal to about 25 mm when attached to a corresponding support provided on a housing of an imaging device. The lens mount adapter is configured to allow for an effective flange focal depth of less than or equal to about 20 mm when attached to a corresponding support provided on a housing of an imaging device. The lens mount adapter is configured to allow for an effective flange focal depth of 18 mm when attached to a corresponding support provided on a housing of an imaging device. The lens mount adapter is configured to allow for an effective flange focal depth of 19.25 mm when attached to a corresponding support provided on a housing of an imaging device.

In some embodiments a low profile lens component includes a rotatable lock ring extending circumferentially around a central aperture a lens interface provided on a camera side of the lens component a spring mounted post protruding from a surface on the lens interface when in a spring relaxed state a mechanically actuatable control. The control is arranged with respect to the post such that actuation of the control when the lock ring is rotated to a first position overcomes a spring force of the spring mounted post causing the post to retract so that it no longer protrudes from the surface on the lens interface. The control cannot be actuated to cause the post to retract when the lock ring is rotated away from the first position.

The low profile lens component of the preceding paragraph can include the following feature The surface on the lens interface is a flange front surface.

Further features and advantages of the inventions described herein will become apparent from the detailed description which follows when considered together the attached drawings and claims.

The imaging device includes a housing and at least one image sensor within the housing . The image sensor is arranged within the housing such that when the lens is attached to the camera housing light traveling along an optical path of the imaging system passes through optics supported by the lens and then through an aperture not shown provided on a front surface of the housing . The optics can include one or more refractive pieces of glass for example arranged to provide focus and or zoom.

The image sensor can be any type of video sensing device including for example but without limitation CMOS CCD vertically stacked CMOS devices such as the Foveon sensor or a multi sensor array using a prism to divide light between the sensors. For instance the camera includes a capability for capturing still images with various and or adjustable resolutions and aspect ratios for example but without limitation as high as 6144 3160 pixels or higher with aspect ratios such as 2 1 2.4 1 16 9 etc and a capability for capturing motion images at resolutions up to about 6K or higher including for example but without limitation 6K 2 1 2.4 1 5K Full Frame 2 1 2.4 1 and Anamorphic 2 1 4.5K 2.4 1 4K 16 9 HD 2 1 and Anamorphic 2 1 3K 16 9 2 1 and Anamorphic 2 1 2K 16 9 2 1 and Anamorphic 2 1 1080p RGB 16 9 720p RGB 16 9 and other resolutions and formats depending on the size of the image sensor used in the imaging device and the capacity of the supporting electronics. Additionally the device can be configured to include a number of compression options including compressed raw mosaic image sensor data compressed fully rendered video data and uncompressed video data. An onboard memory preferably comprises a capacity of at least about 64 GB and in various implementation at least about 128 GB 256 GB or 512 GB. In some embodiments the memory can be attached to a separate recording unit that is directly or indirectly removably attachable to the housing . Where imaging device is a phone it can include a slot or cavity for receiving at least one and preferably two or more SIM cards to enable the phone to receive two or more phone numbers.

Where the imaging device is a phone it can include two cameras such as one facing outwardly from the front of the phone and one facing outwardly from the rear of the phone. In one embodiment the illustrated sensor forms part of the camera that faces outwardly from the rear of the phone.

The imaging device also includes a support which is configured to engage and disengage with a corresponding mount provided on the lens during respective attachment and detachment of the lens from the camera body . The support and the mount together form a mounting system . According to certain embodiments the mount is a male oriented interface including a rotatable lock ring and one or more rotatable flanges for securing a positive lock with the female oriented support.

In another embodiment of an imaging system shown in the mount of the mounting system is implemented on a lens mount adapter instead of a lens . The lens mount adapter incorporates an adapter mount on a lens side of the adapter allowing for the use of a wide variety of lenses and corresponding lens mount types with the imaging system . In this manner imaging systems incorporating the mounting system can optionally be used with a wide variety of different lenses. For instance due to the non standardization of lens mounts among the various lens manufacturers adapters are contemplated to implement a third party mount so as to adapt to any of the following lens mounts Pentax Q mount D mount 8 mm movie cameras CS mount surveillance cameras Nikon 1 mount C mount Bolex Eclair and Bell Howell Fujifilm X mount Canon EF M mount Sony E mount Sony FZ mount Micro Four Thirds System Samsung NX mount RED ONE interchangeable mount Leica M mount M39 Leica Screwmount Olympus PEN F Contax G mount Contax RF mount Nikon S mount Olympus Four Thirds System Konica AR mount Canon FL mount Canon FD mount Start Soviet SLR Minolta SR mount Fujica X mount Canon EF mount Canon EF S mount Praktica B mount Signa SA mount Minolta Konica Minolta Sony A mount Pentax K mount M42 Contax C Y mount Olympus OM mount Nikon F mount Leica R Complementary mount Sony B4 mount Contax N mount Arri STD Arri B Arri PL T mount Panavision PV mount OCT 19 Mamiya 645 Contax 645 Pentax 645 Hasselblad 2000 500 Pentax 6x7. Lenses having any of the foregoing mounts may be directly mountable to a complementary mount onto the adapter mount .

In certain other embodiments not illustrated in the lens mount adapter is an intermediate adapter in that it does not actually include the adapter mount or directly attach to a lens. Instead the intermediate adapter includes an interface provided on a lens side of the adapter and that is configured to attach to a second lens mount adapter. The second lens mount adapter would include a lens mount of the desired type. An example of such a configuration is shown and described with respect to below.

In yet further implementations the mounting system can be implemented such the support is provided on an intermediate component in the optical path instead of being provided on the housing of the imaging device . For instance the support can be provided on the lens side of a lens mount adapter while the camera side of the lens mount adapter would include a different type of mount configured to engage with a corresponding interface on the camera or other imaging device.

The lens mount adapter can further include a lens release mechanism for preventing unwanted detachment of a lens from the adapter . As will be described in further detail herein the lens release mechanism can include a button arranged on a rotating lock ring of the adapter where positioning the button on the lock ring maintains a low profile of the adapter and allows for reduced flange focal distances. Rotation of the lock ring moves the button from a first position in which it engages with a lens release pin e.g. via a tongue and groove mechanism to a second position in which it decouples from the release post.

The mounting systems described herein according to some embodiments can be implemented on a camera equipped contoured cellphone such as any of the cellphones described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 247 160 titled Cellphone With Contoured Surfaces filed on Apr. 7 2014 the 160 application and which is hereby incorporated by reference herein. For instance any of the supports described herein including the supports of and the support of can be implemented on a rear surface of one of any of the contoured profile cellphones described in the 160 application. The inverted positive lock mounts described herein can allow for the attachment of relatively large heavy lenses either directly to the support or via the use of the lens mount adapters described herein and the contoured profile can provide a grip that is particularly useful when handling the cellphone under the added bulk of such lenses.

Where the support is provided on an imaging device it may be referred to as a native or built in lens mount of the imaging device. For instance the support may be provided on or otherwise form at least a portion of the housing of a cellular phone or a wall on a camera body. The support is provided with a central aperture typically aligned with the optical axis of the assembled camera or other imaging device. The support can also be a plate such as for removable attachment to a camera cellphone or other imaging device.

Referring to the support has an aperture configured to removably receive the lens mount adapter or other compatible optical component. In general any of a variety of complementary engagement structures may be provided on the periphery of the aperture and a corresponding periphery of the lens mount adapter or other compatible optical component. The complementary engagement structures preferably allow the lens mount adapter to be securely connected to the support but also be removable. As will be discussed further the aperture can further be configured to removably receive other optical components having a similar engagement structure for attachment to the support such as a lens or an intermediate lens mount adapter configured to removably receive a lens mount .

Lens mount adapter may be provided with a first set of complementary engagement structures for attachment to the support and a second set of engagement structures configured to removably receive a conventional commercial lens. The lens mount adapter is considered to have a lens side which contains a mount for a lens. While the illustrated lens mount adapter is configured for attachment to a lens having a Sony E mount interface the lens mount adapter can in various embodiments be configured for attachment to a lens having a different mount interface type including one of any of the lens mounts described herein. Referring now to the lens side of the lens contains lens optics which can include one or more pieces of refractive glass designed to provide focus and or zoom. For instance shows a front surface of a front most optical element of the lens and shows the back surface of a rear most optical element of the lens .

A camera side opposes the lens side and although referred to as a camera side it is understood that this is a directional reference only as the mount adapter may be attached to any of a variety of support structures. For reference purposes the support is referred to as having a lens mount side and opposing sensor side .

Referring to the aperture is provided with a contoured peripheral edge . At least a first recess extends in a radial outward direction from an axis extending through the center of the aperture . In the illustrated embodiment a second recess is circumferentially separated from the first recess by a first support flange . The peripheral edge may be provided with two or three or four or five or six or seven or eight or more recesses similar to recess such as referring to third fourth fifth and sixth recesses and an equal number of intervening flanges .

Referring to the camera side of the lens mount adapter includes at least a first rotating mount flange dimensioned such that the lens mount adapter can be positioned within the aperture with the rotating mount flange passing through one of the recesses in of the peripheral edge of the aperture such as the first recess . In the illustrated embodiment the lens mount adapter is provided with six rotating mount flanges circumferentially spaced approximately equal distance around the periphery of the lens mount adapter . Typically the lens mount adapter will be provided with a number of rotating mount flanges that is equal to the number of recesses provided on the support . Referring again to the mounting system can include an alignment or keying mechanism. For instance the periphery of the support can in some embodiments including the illustrated embodiment further include an alignment notch or other alignment feature. The notch is shaped such that a corresponding to alignment flange provided on the surface plate can pass through the alignment notch upon insertion of the lens mount adapter into the aperture . This provides a single rotational orientation in which the lens mount adapter can be successfully inserted into the aperture . In other embodiments such as where the lens mount adapter does not electrically connect with the imaging device the alignment feature is not provided and the illustrated lens mount adapter can be inserted in any of six different rotational orientations. Other configurations of the alignment feature are possible such as where the alignment notch is disposed on the lens mount adapter and the alignment flange is disposed on the support . One alternative embodiment is shown in described below.

Referring again to the lens mount adapter is provided with a rotatable locking ring which rotates relative to a surface plate and causes the rotating mount flanges to rotate relative to the surface plate . The lens mount adapter is mounted on the support by advancing the lens mount adapter along the optical axis such that each rotating mount flange passes through the corresponding recess of the support . Once the lens mount adapter is seated on the support rotation of the lock ring rotates each rotating mount flange such that it becomes positioned underneath on the sensor side of the corresponding support flange such as support flange . The foregoing enables a secure interference fit as can be seen for example in which is a view from inside of a camera of an embodiment of a lens mount adapter having four rotating mount flanges. As seen therein each of the four rotating mount flanges and have been rotated out of alignment with the corresponding recess and into engagement with the corresponding support flange.

A further feature of the lens mount adapter according to certain embodiments including the embodiment illustrated in is a fixed surface plate . See e.g. . The fixed surface plate is provided with a contoured or otherwise noncircular outer periphery such that the plate can seat within a complementary cavity of the support . In the illustrated embodiment the outer periphery of the complementary cavity defines a seating surface and is formed by the portion of the periphery of the aperture that resides between the front lens mount side surfaces of the support flanges and the front surface of the support . When the lens mount adapter is fully inserted in the aperture and the fixed surface plate is therefore fully seated within the complementary cavity the front camera side surface of the surface plate abuts against an interfering surface of the support which is formed at least partially by the front lens mount side surfaces of the support flanges and which is spaced in the direction of the camera from the plate front surface . The outer periphery of the seating surface can be shaped to correspond to the periphery of the surface plate thereby preventing rotation of the fixed surface plate with respect to the support . In one implementation of the invention the seating surface is recessed from the plate front surface by a dimension that is approximately equal to the thickness of the fixed surface plate . In this manner fixed surface plate drops into the seating surface and provides a flush interface with and smooth continuous surface with the plate front surface .

In one implementation the locking ring is connected to or with respect to the rotating mount flanges such that rotation of the locking ring in a first direction draws the rotating mount flanges in the direction of the lens mount adapter towards the lens side and rotation of the locking ring in a second direction advances the rotating mount flanges in the direction of the camera towards the camera side . In this manner as the locking ring is rotated to rotationally advance the rotating mount flanges into the position illustrated in the rotating mount flanges are simultaneously advanced in the direction of the fixed surface plate thereby applying compression or pinching of the support flanges between the corresponding rotating mount flanges and the fixed plate . This compression provides a secure positive lock PL between the lens mount adapter and the support . For example connection between the lens mount adapter or other optical component and the support will not be susceptible to substantial play due to vibrations or movement of the camera. As will be described further with respect to e.g. in some embodiments including the illustrated embodiment the locking ring is directly coupled the rotating mount flanges and threadably connected to the fixed surface plate . In such configurations rotation of the locking ring causes movement of the locking ring and rotating mount flanges along the optical axis with respect to the fixed surface plate where the direction of the movement along the optical axis is determined by the direction of the rotation.

By way of summary of aspects of the mounting action of the lens mount adapter and support according to some embodiments referring to the lock ring is initially rotated to an unlocked position. In the illustrated embodiment when the lock ring is in the unlocked position the rotating flanges are aligned with corresponding fixed flanges on the periphery of the fixed surface plate . The user aligns the rotating flanges fixed flanges and alignment tab of the lens mount adapter with the corresponding recesses and the alignment notch of the support and inserts the lens mount adapter into the aperture . As the lens mount adapter is alignably inserted into the aperture in the direction of the sensor the rotating flanges pass through and clear the corresponding support recesses. Meanwhile the fixed plate is oriented such that the contour of its periphery including the keying feature flanges and recesses are aligned with the corresponding contour defined by the periphery of the seating cavity . The adapter continues to be axially inserted into the aperture until the front camera side surface of the fixed plate contacts the front surfaces of the support flanges . At this point the fixed plate is seated against the seating surface . The user now rotates the lock ring causing the rotating flanges to begin to slide in behind sensor side the support flanges . At the same time the rotation causes the rotating flanges to move towards the fixed plate causing the support flanges to be pinched between the rear surfaces lens side of the rotating flanges and the front surface camera side of the fixed plate . The lock ring is rotated until achieving a locked position such as the one shown in . To release the adapter the lock ring is rotated by the same amount in the reverse direction and the adapter is removed from the aperture .

Such a locking mechanism provides a reliable connection with very little play between the support and the lens mount adapter which can be particularly beneficial during motion shooting. Moreover according to some embodiments including the illustrated embodiments an optical component such as the lens or lens mount adapter e.g. the male oriented side of the mounting interface includes the movable mechanically active components involved in the locking function such as the rotating lock ring and the rotating flanges. In contrast the support e.g. the female oriented side of the mounting interface according to certain such embodiments includes only mechanically passive non moving components involved in the locking function such as the support flanges and seating cavity . For instance the support according to various implementations does not include a spring such as a deflecting or coiled spring for providing a securing force between the lens component and the support or a rotatable lock ring. Among other potential drawbacks inclusion of a spring such as in a bayonet style lens mount could allow for play between the lens component and the support during motion. Moreover the front and back of the support flanges are parallel allowing for fixed surface to fixed surface pinching of the support flanges between the corresponding surfaces of the fixed plate and rotating flanges as described with substantially no non normal forces. Inclusion of a spring could create some degree of non normal force reducing the effectiveness of the lock. In alternative embodiments a spring may be included to aid in the clamping force.

Referring now to there is illustrated a side elevational view of a lens mount adapter such as an Micro 4 3 MFT adapter mounted to a support plate . shows a lens mounted to a support plate . The mounting mechanism described herein enables a low stack height of a conventional bayonet type mounting system yet provides the high clamping strength of a PL positive lock mount. The mount also enables a very shallow back focus or flange focal distance .

Referring to the native flange focal distance of the mounting system can be measured from the flange front surface of the support to an image plane formed by one or more image sensors . Referring briefly to the flange front surface the support of would comprise the substantially flat contiguous face of the support which is co planar with the opening of the aperture but would not include the button or any other portions protruding from or recessed from the face. Referring again to the native flange focal distance can range from less than 15 mm to less than about 12 mm or to preferably less than 10 mm. In one embodiment the native flange focal distance is 8 mm. The lens mount adapter of includes an adapter mount which can be a female Micro 4 3 bayonet style mount allowing for attachment of a lens having a male Micro 4 3 mount. With the adapter attached the effective focal depth of the system can be measured between the image plane and a lens mounting flange of the adapter mount . The shallow native flange focal distance enables the interchangeable use of a wide variety lenses on the camera including lens those having mounting systems with relatively shallow flange focal distances e.g. Sony E mount at 18 mm or Micro 4 3 mount at 19.25 mm as well those having significantly larger flange focal distance. For instance lens mount adapters can implement mounting systems having flange focus depths ranging from less than 15 mm and preferably less than about 20 mm up to greater than 45 mm or greater than 50 mm as known in the art can be art including mounting systems compatible with any of the commercially available lens mounts described herein.

The terms back focus back focus distance flange focal distance and flange focal depth are used interchangeably herein and can generally correspond to a distance between a native mounting flange and an image plane e.g. the distance shown in or where a lens mount adapter is used the distance between a mounting flange or surface of the adapter and the image plane e.g. distance shown in . It can also be beneficial to reduce the distance between the rearmost portion of optics in the lens such as a rear apex of a convex lens. This distance can depend on the design of the lens and this distance in some cases may be less than the flange focal distance . For instance referring to in some embodiments when the lens is inserted in the aperture the apex of a rear most optical element visible on the lens shown in within the lens can reside on the image sensor side of the support . This can result in a back of lens to image plane distance that is less than the flange focal depth . In various embodiments the back of lens to image plane distance range from no more than about 15 10 or 8 mm to preferably no more than about 5 mm. In one embodiment the lens to image plane distance is about 2 mm and the flange focal distance is about 8 mm.

According to certain embodiments the lens mount adapter additionally maintains the opto electro mechanical functionality by accommodating the signal power pass through that many of the modern lens mount formats require. Alternatively the mount can also function as a dome mount opto mechanical only . For this purpose referring to the camera side of the lens mount adapter and that of the lens contain a plurality of electrodes configured to match the pattern of the plurality of electrodes provided on the imaging device e.g. camera body or cellphone body to which the lens mount adapter will be attached. The alignment mechanism including the notch and flange can ensure proper connection between the electrodes of the lens mount adapter and the electrodes of the imaging device. The lens side of the lens mount adapter contains a second plurality of electrodes such as pogo pins for providing electrical communication with a paired lens. Thus if the mount provided on the lens side of the adapter is configured for mechanical fastening to a Sony E mount lens or an MFT lens the electrical connectors on the lens side of the mount will be configured to cooperate with the same E mount or MFT lens while the electrical connectors on the camera body side of the lens mount will correspond to the electrical connector pattern of the intended camera body.

Turning now to front and rear exploded perspective views are shown of a rotating lock ring a fixed surface plate and a rotating flange support ring of the lens mount adapter shown in . Similar to the lock ring and the rotating flange support ring the illustrated fixed surface plate is annular. The surface plate additionally supports a set of fixed flanges . The rotating flange support ring supports the rotating flanges and is configured to couple to the rotating locking ring . For instance the illustrated support ring includes a set of three tabs which pass through corresponding slots in the fixed surface plate . The tabs are secured to the lock ring via insertion of screws bolts or other fasteners through the pairs of fastener openings provided on the locking ring and into corresponding female fastener holes provided on the tabs . Although three coupling tabs are shown one two or more than three tabs can be used depending on the embodiment. The lock ring and the rotating ring can be connected in other ways depending on the embodiment such as through a molded connection or with an adhesive. As shown the slots included on the periphery of the surface plate are elongate and curved along the periphery of the fixed surface plate ring . This not only allows the tabs to pass through thereby enabling connection of the lock ring to the flange support ring but also allows the joined lock ring flange support ring to rotate with respect to the fixed surface plate ring during attachment and detachment of the lens mount adapter from the imaging device. The fixed surface plate supports a threaded annular surface extending in the direction of the lock ring from the support plate and configured to mate with a corresponding threaded surface provided on the interior periphery of the lock ring .

While have been described with respect to the lens mount adapter other optical components such as a lens can include similar components to those shown in which function together to engage with the support of an imaging device to provide positive locking functionality. For instance the lens shown in includes a lock ring fixed surface plate ring and rotating flange support ring that function in a similar manner. As another example shows an embodiment of a lens mount adapter including a lock ring fixed surface plate and rotating flange support ring similar to those shown in . However the lens mount adapter is an intermediate adapter in that it does not directly attach to a lens but instead includes a front ring configured to accept a separate lens mount adapter. For instance shows the lens mount adapter in an assembled configuration and with a second lens mount adapter installed thereon. The second lens mount adapter includes a lens mount interface which according to various implementations can implement any of the commercially available lens mount systems described herein such as a Canon EF bayonet style interface or a Nikon F mount just to name two possibilities.

As described the optical components described herein such as the lens mount adapter lens and lens mount adapter can be fastened to the support via aligned insertion into the aperture and subsequent rotation to secure a positive lock. In addition to the rotational locking function it can be desirable to further reduce the chances of accidental detachment of the optical component from the support . Thus returning to a safety mechanism can be provided to prevent accidental detachment. The illustrated safety mechanism includes a button provided on the support including a landing pad and a post or pin . Referring to the safety mechanism further includes at least one hole provided on the lens mount adapter and lens on the rear camera side of the outer periphery of the lock ring . The hole is shaped to accommodate the post and as shown is located on a portion of the rear camera side of the lock ring that is exposed by one of recesses in the fixed support plate . Referring now to when a user aligns the flanges recesses of the lens mount adapter or other optical component with the corresponding flanges recesses of the periphery of the support as well as the alignment flange of the lens mount adapter with the alignment notch of the support and inserts the lens mount adapter into the aperture the post of the support and hole on the lens mount are out of alignment. In particular the button is spring loaded and when the user inserts the lens mount adapter the portion of the rear camera side of the lock ring will contact the post depressing the button including the post . When the user rotates the lens mount adapter into a positively locked fastened position the post will eventually align with the hole and the spring will urge the post to extend into the hole thereby preventing rotation and accidental detachment of the lens mount adapter . When a user desires to detach the lens mount adapter or other optical component the user presses the pad of the button causing the post to retract from the hole allowing rotation and detachment of the lens mount adapter from the support .

It can also be undesirable for a lens to detach from the lens mount adapter . Thus returning to the lens mount adapter can include a safety mechanism for preventing unwanted detachment of a lens not shown from the lens mount adapter . The safety mechanism includes a button or other control having a finger landing pad and further includes a spring loaded post or pin . The pin is slidably mounted in a corresponding cavity of the lens mount adapter where a hole in the flange front surface of the lens mount adapter defines an opening to the cavity. When in a spring relaxed extended position the pin extends beyond the opening of the cavity beyond the front flange surface . Similar to the safety mechanism described above between the lens mount adapter and the support when the user inserts the lens in the lens mount adapter the post is initially depressed via contact with a rear flange surface of the lens. Then following rotation of the lens to secure the lens to the lens mount adapter the post aligns with the hole provided on the lens and the spring urges the post into the hole on the lens thereby prevents rotation of the lens and accidental detachment of the lens from the lens mount adapter .

The button as shown in is coupled to the post and when a user wants to remove the lens the user presses down on the landing pad of the button causing the pin to retract from the hole. Eventually the pin is flush with or recessed with respect to front flange surface of the lens mount adapter allowing rotation and subsequent detachment of the lens from the lens mount adapter .

As shown the button can be located on or otherwise coupled to the rotating lock ring . For instance the button can be mounted with respect to a cut out formed in the lock ring . As shown in the cut out of the illustrated embodiment is formed in the front lens side edge of the periphery of the lock ring and is shaped to accommodate the size of the button and to also allow for movement of the button when pressed by a user. Inclusion of the button on or otherwise coupled to the lock ring allows for reduced stack height of the lens mount adapter maintaining a corresponding reduced effective flange focal distance. However because the lock ring and button are movable while the post is fixed rotation of the locking ring will cause displacement of the button with respect to the post . This is shown in the views of the partial lens mount adapter shown in button and post aligned and B button and post displaced from one another where the lock ring is not shown for the purposes of illustration. show components of the safety mechanism of the lens mount adapter . As shown a post support carries the post and has a lower portion which houses a spring . A tongue extends from the post support in the direction of the button . The button is independently spring loaded and includes a lower portion accommodating a pair of springs . There is a groove cut into the side of the button that faces the center of the lock ring .

When the button and post support are aligned the tongue of the post support slides into the groove of the button . In this aligned state when the user pushes down on the landing pad the upper surface of the tongue interferes with movement of the upper surface of the groove causing the post support and post to move downward along with the button thereby allowing for rotation and detachment of the lens. On the other hand when the button and post support are not aligned due to rotation of the lock ring the button and post support are disengaged and pushing down on the button will not move the post .

As indicated by enabling decoupling of the button from the post the above described release mechanism allows for positioning of the button on the movable lock ring thereby maintaining the reduced the stack height of the lens mount adapter and a relatively short effective flange focal distance which can be any of the flange focal distances described herein. As just a couple of examples lens mounts adapters incorporating such a release mechanism can implement a Sony E mount interface having a flange focal distance of about 18 mm or a Micro 4 3 lens mount interface having a flange focal distance of about 19.25 mm.

While the illustrated pin is cylindrical other shapes can be used such as a rectangular prism. In some implementations multiple pins can be included on the front flange surface of the lens mount adapter such as where all of the pins are coupled to the same button or alternatively where a separate button is provided for each pin.

In another embodiment the button is arranged in a similar position to that shown in with respect to the lock ring and the post. However the button is not movable and is instead affixed to or otherwise permanently coupled to the post. In this embodiment in order to allow for the rotational movement of the lock ring an elongate arcuate cut out is formed along a portion of the lock ring. The button sits in the cut out such that during rotation of the lock ring the button remains in the cut out and does not hit the lock ring . The arcuate cut out in such a configuration can have an arc length sufficient to allow the lock ring to fully rotate between locked and unlocked positions without hitting the button.

Referring to an electronic device such as a cellphone or other camera equipped handheld electronic device in accordance with an embodiment may be connected to an external device by using an external connection device such as a sub communication module a connector and an earphone connecting jack . The electronic device may be the imaging device of for example and may implement or be configured for use with any of the mounting systems described herein including any of the inverted positive lock mounting systems. The external device may include a variety of devices such as earphones external speakers Universal Serial Bus USB memories chargers cradles docks Digital Multimedia Broadcasting DMB antennas electronic payment related devices health care devices e.g. blood sugar testers game consoles vehicle navigations and the like which are removable from the electronic device and connected thereto via a cable. The external device may also include a short range communication device that may be wirelessly connected to the electronic device via short range communication such as BLUETOOTH a short range wireless communications technology at the 2.4 GHz band commercially available from the BLUETOOTH SPECIAL INTEREST GROUP INC. a Near Field Communication NFC and the like and a communication device using WI FI DIRECT a wireless technology for data exchange over a computer network commercially available from the WI FI ALLIANCE a wireless Access Point AP and the like. Furthermore the external device may include any other device such as a cell phone a smartphone a tablet PC a desktop PC a server and the like.

Referring to the electronic device includes a display unit and a display controller . The electronic device also includes a controller a mobile communication module the sub communication module a multimedia module a camera module a Global Positioning System GPS module an input output module a sensor module a storage and a power supply . The sub communication module includes at least one of Wireless Local Area Network WLAN and a short range communication module and the multimedia module includes at least one of a broadcast communication module an audio play module and a video play module . The camera module includes at least one of a first camera a second camera a third camera and the input output module includes at least one of buttons a microphone a speaker a vibration motor the connector and a keypad . In some embodiments the second and third cameras can both be disposed on the backside of the device so to accommodate various types of photographic tools including 3 D still photography or motion video as well as other types of effects. Additionally the electronic device can include one or more lights .

The controller may include a Central Processing Unit CPU a Read Only Memory ROM for storing a control program such as an Operating System OS to control the electronic device and a Random Access Memory RAM for storing signals or data input from an external source or for being used as a memory space for working results in the electronic device . The CPU may include a single core dual cores triple cores or quad cores. The CPU ROM and RAM may be connected to each other via an internal bus.

The controller may control the mobile communication module the sub communication module the multimedia module the camera module the GPS module the input output module the sensor module the storage the power supply the display unit and the display controller .

The mobile communication module connects the electronic device to an external device through mobile communication using at least a one to one antenna or a one to many antenna under the control of the controller . The mobile communication module transmits receives wireless signals for voice calls video conference calls Short Message Service SMS messages or Multimedia Message Service MMS messages to from a cell phone a smartphone a tablet PC or another device with the phones having phone numbers entered into the electronic device .

The sub communication module may include at least one of the WLAN module and the short range communication module . For example the sub communication module may include either the WLAN module or the short range communication module or both.

The WLAN module may be connected to the Internet in a place where there is a wireless Access Point AP under the control of the controller . The WLAN module supports the WLAN Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers IEEE 802.11x standard. The short range communication module may conduct short range communication between the electronic device and an image rendering device under the control of the controller . The short range communication may include communications compatible with BLUETOOTH a short range wireless communications technology at the 2.4 GHz band commercially available from the BLUETOOTH SPECIAL INTEREST GROUP INC. Infrared Data Association IrDA WI FI DIRECT a wireless technology for data exchange over a computer network commercially available from the WI FI ALLIANCE NFC and the like.

The electronic device may include at least one of the mobile communication module the WLAN module and the short range communication module based on the performance requirements of the electronic device . For example the electronic device may include a combination of the mobile communication module the WLAN module and the short range communication module based on the performance requirements of the electronic device .

The multimedia module may include the broadcast communication module the audio play module or the video play module . The broadcast communication module may receive broadcast signals e.g. television broadcast signals radio broadcast signals or data broadcast signals and additional broadcast information e.g. an Electric Program Guide EPG or an Electric Service Guide ESG transmitted from a broadcasting station through a broadcast communication antenna under the control of the controller . The audio play module may play digital audio files e.g. files having extensions such as mp3 wma ogg or way stored or received under the control of the controller . The video play module may play digital video files e.g. files having extensions such as mpeg mpg mp4 avi move or mkv stored or received under the control of the controller . The video play module may also play digital audio files.

The multimedia module may include the audio play module and the video play module except for the broadcast communication module . The audio play module or video play module of the multimedia module may be included in the controller .

The camera module may include at least one of the first camera and the second camera for capturing still images or video images under the control of the controller . Furthermore the first or second camera or respectively may include an auxiliary light source e.g. a flash for providing an amount of light for capturing an image. The first camera may be placed on the front of the electronic device and the second camera may be placed on the back of electronic device . Alternatively the first and second cameras and respectively are arranged adjacent to each other e.g. the distance between the first and second cameras and respectively may be in the range of 1 cm. to 8 cm. capturing 3 Dimensional 3D still images or 3D video images. For instance the first and or second cameras can comprise any of the imaging devices and mounting systems described herein and may implement any of the mounting systems described herein or appropriate components thereof.

The GPS module receives radio signals from a plurality of GPS satellites in orbit around the Earth and may calculate the position of the electronic device by using time of arrival from the GPS satellites to the electronic device .

The input output module may include at least one of the plurality of buttons the microphone the speaker the vibrating motor the connector and the keypad .

The at least one of the buttons may be arranged on the front side or back of the housing of the electronic device and may include at least one of a power lock button a volume button a menu button a home button a back button and a search button.

The microphone generates electric signals by receiving voice or sound under the control of the controller .

The speaker may output sounds externally corresponding to various signals e.g. radio signals broadcast signals digital audio files digital video files or photography signals from the mobile communication module sub communication module multimedia module or camera module under the control of the controller . The speaker may output sounds e.g. button press sounds or ringback tones that correspond to functions performed by the electronic device . There may be one or multiple speakers arranged in at least one position on or in the housing of the electronic device .

The vibrating motor may convert an electric signal to a mechanical vibration under the control of the controller . For example the electronic device in a vibrating mode operates the vibrating motor when receiving a voice call from another device. There may be at least one vibration motor inside the housing of the electronic device . The vibration motor may operate in response to a touch activity or continuous touches of a user over the display unit .

The connector may be used as an interface for connecting the electronic device to the external device or a power source. Under the control of the controller the electronic device may transmit data stored in the storage of the electronic device to the external device via a cable connected to the connector or receive data from the external device. Furthermore the electronic device may be powered by the power source via a cable connected to the connector or may charge the battery using the power source.

The keypad may receive key inputs from the user to control the electronic device . The keypad includes a mechanical keypad formed in the electronic device or a virtual keypad displayed on the display unit . The mechanical keypad formed in the electronic device may optionally be omitted from the implementation of the electronic device depending on the performance requirements or structure of the electronic device .

An earphone may be inserted into the earphone connecting jack and thus may be connected to the electronic device .

A stylus pen may be inserted and removably retained in the electronic device and may be drawn out and detached from the electronic device .

A pen removable recognition switch that operates in response to attachment and detachment of the stylus pen is equipped in an area inside the electronic device where the stylus pen is removably retained and sends a signal that corresponds to the attachment or the detachment of the stylus pen to the controller . The pen removable recognition switch may have a direct or indirect contact with the stylus pen when the stylus pen is inserted into the area. The pen removable recognition switch generates the signal that corresponds to the attachment or detachment of the stylus pen based on the direct or indirect contact and provides the signal to the controller .

The sensor module includes at least one sensor for detecting a status of the electronic device . For example the sensor module may include a proximity sensor for detecting proximity of a user to the electronic device an illumination sensor for detecting an amount of ambient light of the electronic device a motion sensor for detecting the motion of the electronic device e.g. rotation of the electronic device acceleration or vibration applied to the electronic device a geomagnetic sensor for detecting a point of the compass using the geomagnetic field a gravity sensor for detecting a direction of gravity and an altimeter for detecting an altitude by measuring atmospheric pressure. At least one sensor may detect the status and generate a corresponding signal to transmit to the controller . The sensor of the sensor module may be added or removed depending on the performance requirements of the electronic device of the electronic device .

The storage may store signals or data input output according to operations of the mobile communication module the sub communication module the multimedia module the camera module the GPS module the input output module the sensor module the display unit under the control of the controller . The storage may store the control programs and applications for controlling the electronic device or the controller .

The term storage refers to the storage and also to the ROM RAM in the controller or a memory card e.g. a Secure Digital SD card a memory stick and the like installed in the electronic device . The storage may also include a non volatile memory a volatile memory a Hard Disc Drive HDD a Solid State Drive SSD or the like.

The power supply may supply power to at least one battery placed inside the housing of the electronic device under the control of the controller . The at least one battery powers the electronic device . The power supply may supply the electronic device with the power input from the external power source via a cable connected to the connector . The power supply may also supply the electronic device with wireless power from an external power source using a wireless charging technology.

The display controller receives information e.g. information to be generated for making calls data transmission broadcast or photography that is processed by the controller converts the information to data to be displayed on the display unit and provides the data to the display unit . The display unit displays the data received from the display controller . For example in a call mode the display unit may display a User Interface UI or a Graphic User Interface GUI with respect to a call. The display unit may include at least one of liquid crystal displays thin film transistor liquid crystal displays organic light emitting diodes flexible displays 3D displays electrophoretic displays and the like.

The display unit may be used as an output device and also as an input device and for the latter case may have a touchscreen panel to operate as a touch screen. The display unit may send to the display controller an analog signal that corresponds to at least one touch to the UI or GUI. The display unit may detect the at least one touch by a user s physical contact e.g. by fingers including a thumb or by a touchable input device e.g. the stylus pen . The display unit may also receive a dragging movement of a touch among at least one touch and transmit an analog signal that corresponds to the dragging movement to the display controller . The display unit may be implemented to detect at least one touch in for example a resistive method a capacitive method an infrared method an acoustic wave method or the like.

The term touches are not limited to physical touches by a physical contact of the user or contacts with the touchable input device but may also include touchless proximity e.g. maintaining a detectable distance less than 1 mm. between the display unit and the user s body or touchable input device . The detectable distance from the display unit may vary depending on the performance requirements of the electronic device or structure of the electronic device and more particularly the display unit may output different values e.g. current values for touch detection and hovering detection to distinguishably detect that a touch event occurred by a contact with the user s body or the touchable input device and a contactless input e.g. a hovering event . Furthermore the display unit may output different values e.g. current values for hovering detection over distance from where the hovering event occurs.

The display controller converts the analog signal received from the display unit to a digital signal e.g. in XY coordinates on the touch panel or display screen and transmits the digital signal to the controller . The controller may control the display unit by using the digital signal received from the display controller . For example in response to the touch event or the hovering event the controller may enable a shortcut icon displayed on the display unit to be selected or to be executed. The display controller may also be incorporated in the controller .

Further the display controller may determine the distance between where the hovering event occurs and the display unit by detecting a value e.g. a current value output through the display unit convert the determined distance to a digital signal e.g. with a Z coordinate and provide the digital signal to the controller .

The display unit may include at least two touchscreen panels for detecting touches or proximity thereto by the user s body or the touchable input device to receive both inputs by the user s body or the touchable input device simultaneously. The at least two touchscreen panels provide different output values to the display controller and the display controller may differentiate inputs by the user s body and inputs by the touchable input device through the touchscreen by differently recognizing the values input from the at least two touchscreen panels.

