---

title: Systems and methods to select peered border elements for an IP multimedia session based on quality-of-service
abstract: Systems and methods to select peered border elements for a communication session based on Quality-of-Service (QoS) are disclosed. An example method includes selecting a peered border element to handle a communication session based on a list of peered border elements (PBEs) and a composite QoS parameter of the communication session, the list of PBEs being prioritized based on respective statuses of PBEs in the list, the first composite QoS parameter being based on weighted QoS parameters of the communication session including a grade of service (GoS) parameter of the communication session and a preferred mode of communication for a VoIP device of a called party in the communication session, the GoS parameter including an attempted performance range and an expected performance range of the communication session; and controlling a second server to generate a QoS authorization token to reserve network resources associated with the selected PBE.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09521081&OS=09521081&RS=09521081
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, L.P.
number: 09521081
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151204
---
This patent is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 951 195 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 246 824 issued on Jan. 26 2016 filed on Jul. 25 2013 entitled Systems and Methods to Select Peered Border Elements for an IP Multimedia Session Based on Quality of Service which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 037 602 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 520 663 filed on Feb. 26 2008 entitled Systems and Methods to Select Peered Border Elements for an IP Multimedia Session Based on Quality of Service. The entireties of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 037 602 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 951 195 are incorporated herein by reference.

This disclosure relates generally to Internet Protocol IP Multimedia communications and more particularly to systems and methods to select peered border elements for an IP Multimedia session based on Quality of Service QoS .

In the field of packet switched networks service providers may often have peering relationships with other service providers. Peering relationships provide interconnectivity between the networks of the service providers and allow the customers of peering networks to connect. Peering is typically accomplished at established physical locations or exchange points using peered border elements through which data may be exchanged between the networks. Two service providers with a peering relationship may maintain multiple exchange points to accommodate large services areas and reduce the distances packet data must travel to reach a destination. For example two service providers in the United States may maintain exchange points in New York Chicago Houston and Los Angeles. Further each exchange point may feature multiple peered border elements between a given pair of service providers.

Quality of Service QoS when used in communications refers to resource reservation control. Implementing QoS may provide different priority levels to different users according to for example a customer service contract or an application type. QoS may also guarantee a certain level of performance to a data flow which can be important when network capacity is limited i.e. network congestion . Certain applications such as Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP require a certain guarantee of availability and maximum packet delay which may be provided by a QoS guarantee to function properly.

In the interest of brevity and clarity throughout the following disclosure references will be made to the example Internet protocol IP Multimedia subsystem IMS based Voice over IP VoIP network of . Moreover the following disclosure will be made using session initiation protocol SIP messages and or SIP based message exchanges. However it should be understood that the methods and apparatus described herein to select a peered border element are applicable to other IMS and or VoIP communication systems and or networks e.g. networks based on soft switches VoIP devices IMS devices feature servers tElephone NUMber mapping ENUM servers border elements access networks IP networks IMS networks and or IMS communication systems and or other types of protocols messages and or message exchanges.

To provide communication services to a first set of subscribers e.g. associated with a first service provider the example communication system of includes an IMS network made available by the service provider A. Likewise to provide communication services to a second set of subscribers e.g. associated with a second service provider the example communication system of includes any type of IMS and or VoIP network made available by the service provider B. In some instances the example calling network implements any or all of the example methods and or apparatus to select a peered border element described below in connection with the IMS network . In general the example IMS network of can provide and or enable IMS communication services e.g. telephone services Internet services data services messaging services instant messaging services electronic mail email services chat services video services audio services gaming services voicemail facsimile services etc. to the example VoIP device and or to VoIP devices of other service providers e.g. the example VoIP device .

The example service provider networks and of are communicatively coupled via any number of pairs of peered border elements. A first pair of peered border elements is designated in with reference numerals and and a second pair of peered border elements is designated with reference numerals and . Mated pairs of peered border elements implement for example handshaking media translation s and or protocol message modification s to facilitate communication sessions between subscribers of two service provider networks e.g. the example networks and .

Typically the pairs of peered border elements and are located so as to provide communicative coupling between the service provider networks and at geographically separated locations. The locations at which peered border elements are located may differ depending on with which service provider s the IMS network has a peering relation. Further while the service provider of is illustrated as having a peering relationship with service provider the service provider may have other peering relationships with other service providers. Moreover the peering locations for those other service providers may be different from the peering locations for service provider . In some examples there may be more than one pair of peered bordered elements and at a given geographic location. In such examples the additional peered border elements and may be implemented for redundancy purposes and or to provide additional processing capability ies at that location. In some examples the peered border elements are located at IP peering locations to facilitate deterministic IP Quality of Service QoS . However not all IP peering locations need support VoIP peering.

To collect real time and or dynamic network performance data and or information each of the example peered border elements and includes a performance monitor . The example performance monitors of measure collect and or aggregate any number and or type s of data and or information representative of the historical and or present performance of the IMS network . Example network performance data and or information may include but is not limited to jitter round trip delay latency out of order data data throughput rate processing load memory usage communication path utilization border element status e.g. operational failing and or failed etc. The example performance monitors may be configured to collect data within any layer of a protocol stack implemented by the border elements and or . As described below the data and or information measured collected and or aggregated by the performance monitors may be used to determine one or more parameters representative of the real time dynamic properties of the IMS network such as routing congestions overloaded border elements partially and or fully failed border elements etc. In some example performance monitors may be implemented by other devices of the IMS network such as routers switches hubs etc. Devices and or servers of the service provider may also collect real time and or dynamic network performance data and or information. In such instances the service providers and may exchange collected network performance data and or information to enable each service provider to better optimize the performance of their network but such an exchange is not mandatory for proper implementation of the example methods and apparatus to dynamically select a peered VoIP border element described herein.

To implement the communication services the example IMS network of includes an IMS core . To connect a VoIP device e.g. the VoIP device to the IMS network and the IMS core the IMS network provides a proxy call session control function servers e.g. P CSCF servers . The P CSCF server and a second P CSCF server provide an interface for routing signaling messages to appropriate destinations in the respective IMS networks and . For example the P CSCF server may receive a SIP INVITE message from the VoIP device and forward the message to an appropriate server in the IMS network .

In the illustrated example IMS network of each VoIP device e.g. the example VoIP device that is registered to the example IMS network is associated with and or assigned to a serving call session control function S CSCF server one of which is designated in with reference numeral . The example S CSCF1 server of is responsible for handling incoming and or outgoing IMS e.g. VoIP communication sessions e.g. telephone calls data and or video sessions associated with its registered VoIP devices e.g. the VoIP device . Among other functions the example S CSCF1 server utilizes QoS and the status of multiple peered border elements to assign a VoIP session or other voice data and or video to be handled by an appropriate peered border element. To this end the S CSCF server calculates and or receives QoS parameters based on qualities of the VoIP session and uses the QoS parameters to calculate a composite QoS parameter which is then used to assign an appropriate peered border element from a list of several possible peered border elements. An example operation of the example S CSCF1 server of is described below in connection with .

While one S CSCF1 server is illustrated in the IMS core and or more generally the example IMS network may include any number and or type s of S CSCF servers and each such S CSCF server may support any number and or type s of VoIP devices. The example S CSCF1 server of performs session control maintains session states and or enables communications with call feature servers not shown for its associated and or registered VoIP devices. For instance when the VoIP device initiates for example an outgoing telephone call to the example VoIP device a communication session initiation message e.g. a SIP INVITE message sent by the VoIP device is routed by the IMS network to the S CSCF1 server associated with the VoIP device .

To locate and or identify the VoIP device and or VoIP endpoint e.g. the example VoIP device associated with a called party e.g. a called telephone number the example IMS core of includes any number of ENUM servers one of which is designated in with reference numeral . Based upon an ENUM query request message received from a S CSCF server e.g. the example S CSCF1 server the example ENUM server of performs a lookup of an ENUM database that stores associations of called party identifiers e.g. E.164 telephone numbers to one or more uniform resource identifiers URIs e.g. a SIP URI an HTTP URI etc. corresponding to peered border elements and or called devices . However an ENUM database may store any number and or type s of associations between any number and or type s of identifiers. The example ENUM server returns the one or more URIs to the S CSCF1 server .

As described below in connection with the example ENUM database may contain more than one database records to associate more than one URI with a particular called party identifier. For example if a called party e.g. the VoIP device is associated with another service provider e.g. the example network the ENUM database may contain database records for each of one or more peered border elements via which the communication session may be established. When two or more database records e.g. corresponding to two or more peered border elements are listed for a called party identifier each of the database records may have one or more associated values that represent a relative prioritization of each destination. The priority values and or the order in which the database records are listed in the ENUM database are returned by the ENUM server to the S CSCF1 server along with the URIs and allow the S CSCF1 server to select a particular destination e.g. a particular peered border element .

The S CSCF1 server may also support QoS for VoIP sessions. The QoS requirements for a VoIP session may be different for individual types of sessions. For example an online gaming application may require a better QoS than a telephone call where a better QoS results in fewer or shorter data packet delays and or fewer dropped data packets i.e. higher communication channel quality . Similarly the relative priorities of peered border elements in the ENUM database as described above may indicate relative ability to provide QoS to a given VoIP session. Thus a peered border element may be appropriately chosen by accounting for peered border element priorities and QoS requirements of VoIP sessions.

To determine the QoS requirements of a VoIP session the S CSCF1 server in the example defines and considers a number of parameters associated with the session. For example a Grade of Service GoS parameter may be defined for a VoIP device . The GoS which describes a particular attempted and or expected performance range may be associated with a level of service purchased for the VoIP device from the service provider by a customer. The customer purchasing the level of service may own lease or borrow the VoIP device . Additionally each VoIP device and may have its own independent GoS or a shared GoS level based on for example a subscriber profile of each device and . The GoS parameter may have values such as for example Excellent Very Good Good Fair and Best Effort in order from best to worst . Alternatively the GoS parameter may be described using any number and or type of values.

To determine GoS for the VoIP device the S CSCF1 server may request a subscriber profile which includes among other things the GoS for the VoIP device . The subscriber profile may also be known as a user profile or caller profile. The example subscriber profile for the VoIP device is stored at a Home Subscriber Server HSS within the IMS core . Further although the example S CSCF1 server determines the composite QoS parameter based at least in part on GoS the S CSCF1 server may determine the composite QoS parameter regardless of in conjunction with or based purely on GoS and or the subscriber profile.

Subscriber profiles are based on for example customer orders for service. A customer may be any person paying for or receiving for free a network service such as a digital subscriber line DSL wireless network access cable and or any other network service. In an example a customer contacts a service provider e.g. Service Provider A and requests service at a particular GoS e.g. Excellent . The Service Provider A creates a subscriber profile containing among other things the GoS level to be received by the customer. The subscriber profile is stored at the HSS and may be used to determine a QoS for a VoIP session associated with the customer. The HSS may also modify an existing subscriber profile if for example a customer wishes to upgrade or downgrade the GoS. Further the customer may interact or contact Service Provider A using any means such as an Internet based service ordering system telephony electronic mail or facsimile.

A traffic type parameter may be defined by the S CSCF1 and used to define QoS for the VoIP session which may be defined by the type of application using the session. Example traffic types may include Video Voice and Data in order from highest QoS requirement to lowest QoS requirement.

Another parameter that the S CSCF1 may use to define QoS requirements for a VoIP session specifies a preferred mode of communication for the VoIP device of the called party. The preferred mode of communication parameter may indicate which one of multiple VoIP devices the called party prefers to be reached at and in what order to select each one of the multiple VoIP devices.

A presence mode status parameter may indicate whether the VoIP device associated with the called party is available to be called. For example if it is known that Service Provider B has a service problem in a portion of the network service the VoIP device the presence mode status parameter may indicate the VoIP device is not present. The described parameters or other parameters useful in determining QoS requirements for a VoIP session may be used to generate a composite QoS parameter. Each parameter may be weighted by relative importance or every parameter may affect the composite QoS parameter equally.

The S CSCF1 server receives the prioritized list of peered border elements from the ENUM server and calculates the composite QoS parameter based on the individual QoS parameters. Alternatively the P CSCF1 server calculates the composite QoS result from the QoS parameters and sends it to the S CSCF1 server . From the composite QoS parameter and the prioritized list of peered border elements the S CSCF1 server determines an appropriate peered border element to host the VoIP session. Additionally or alternatively the S CSCF1 server may use the prioritized list of peered border elements and the QoS parameters e.g. GoS traffic type preferred mode of communication and or presence mode status to calculate a matrix result which may score each peered border element with respect to the VoIP session.

After evaluating the priority of each peered border element with respect to the composite QoS parameter the S CSCF1 server may assign the VoIP session to an appropriate peered border element. In an example situation in which the S CSCF1 has multiple VoIP sessions queued to be assigned the S CSCF1 server may assign the VoIP sessions to peered border elements in the order of highest composite QoS parameter to lowest composite QoS parameter. In such a situation the network resources may be utilized most effectively to serve the VoIP sessions with the highest QoS requirements. It should be noted that the most appropriate peered border element may not necessarily be the peered border element with the highest QoS capacity. For example during times of heavy VoIP traffic it may be desirable to assign a VoIP session with a low QoS requirement to a peered border element that is already heavily loaded which may free capacity on other peered border elements to handle sessions requiring a higher QoS.

In the absence of priority values and or listing order information and or QoS parameters the S CSCF1 server may select a particular destination using any applicable method s algorithm s and or logic such as round robin selection. A returned URI may also be returned with an indication that the URI is inactive and thus not available to be selected and or used by the S CSCF1 server for the called party. In some examples the example ENUM server does not return such inactive URIs to the S CSCF1 server .

To determine and or adjust the relative priority of the ENUM database records for called parties the example IMS core of includes an operational support system OSS server . In the illustrated example of the OSS server represents one or more elements of a network operations center and or one or more elements of an operational support system. The example OSS server periodically and or aperiodically collects the network performance data and or information collected by the example performance monitors . Based on the collected network performance data and or information the example OSS server periodically and or aperiodically computes one or more peered border element metrics that may be used to prioritize the selection of the peered border elements . For example the OSS can compute the congestion of communication paths associated with the peered border elements the processing load of the peered border elements and or the state s of the peered border elements e.g. operational partially failed failing and or failed . Such peered border element metrics may be computed using any past present and or future algorithm s method s apparatus and or logic and descriptions of the same are beyond the scope of this disclosure.

Based on the computed peered border element metrics the example OSS server of prioritizes the order in which the peered border elements are to be selected. For example lightly loaded peered border elements are preferred over more heavily loaded peered border elements for VoIP sessions having high QoS requirements failing and or failed peered border elements are to be avoided peered border elements having congested communication paths and or links are less preferable to ones having less congested communication paths and or links etc. After prioritizing the peered border elements the example OSS server modifies one or more records of the ENUM database to represent the computed relative priorities of the peered border elements . ENUM database records may be prioritized by modifying priority values of the ENUM database records. Examples of priority values currently used may be the ORDER and PREFERENCE fields of which the ORDER field has precedence over the PREFERENCE field when considering the relative priority of the ENUM database record. Additionally or alternatively ENUM database records may be added and or removed for a particular called party. For example if a particular peered border element has failed and thus is not available to process a communication session for the called party its associated ENUM database record may be removed and or marked as inactive. Likewise the OSS server may change the status of a particular peered border element from an inactive state to an active state e.g. available for routing a communication session by updating its associated ENUM database record. If a route for a called party is unavailable the ENUM database may be modified to indicate an alternative route e.g. use peered border elements and rather than peered border elements and . The OSS server may modify the ENUM database directly by for example locking a database record to be changed modifying the database record and then unlocking the database record. Additionally or alternatively the ENUM database may be modified by accessing an application programming interface API implemented by and or provided by the example ENUM server .

The modifications of the ENUM database by the example OSS server of may be performed without the involvement and or knowledge of the S CSCF1 server and or the ENUM server . In this way the OSS server can adaptively affect the prioritization of the peered border elements without there being a need to modify traditional ENUM functions and or services typically implemented by the S CSCF1 server and or the ENUM server . Moreover if the method s and or algorithm s by which the selection of the peered border elements are changed the S CSCF1 server and or the ENUM server do not require modification as the changes may be localized to the OSS server . By prioritizing the peered border elements the OSS server reduces the likelihood of routing errors reduces communication session setup times adjusts the IMS network in response to failing failed devices etc. as compared to traditional peered border elements selection methods.

To resolve a URI to an IP address the example IMS core of includes any type of DNS server . For a particular URI SIP HTTP and or otherwise and using any applicable method s logic and or algorithm s the example DNS server performs a DNS lookup to obtain an IP address assigned to and or associated with the URI.

An application server AS may be included in the IMS core . The application server interacts with the SIP INVITE messages on the application layer as defined by the individual implementation. For example an application server hosting VoIP calls may provide the S CSCF1 server with values for QoS parameters associated with a VoIP session. Example QoS parameters may include grade of service traffic type preferred mode of communication and or presence mode status as described above.

While an example IMS network has been illustrated in the devices networks systems servers and or processors illustrated in may be combined divided re arranged eliminated and or implemented in any way. For example it will be readily appreciated by persons of ordinary skill in the art that the example peered border elements the example performance monitors the example IMS core the example S CSCF1 server the example ENUM server the example OSS server the example DNS server and the example application server illustrated in are logical entities. They may therefore be implemented separately and or in any combination using for example machine accessible instructions executed by one or more computing devices and or computing platforms e.g. the example processing platform of . Further the example peered border elements the example performance monitors the example IMS core the example S CSCF1 server the example ENUM server the example OSS server the example DNS server the example application server and or more generally the example IMS network may be implemented by hardware software firmware and or any combination of hardware software and or firmware. Further still the example IMS network may include additional devices servers systems networks gateways portals and or processors in addition to or instead of those illustrated in and or may include more than one of any or all of the illustrated devices servers networks systems gateways portals and or processors. For example the IMS core may include and or utilize one or more of a P CSCF server an S CSCF server an interrogating CSCF server a feature server an application server an HSS a media gateway a breakout gateway control function BGCF server a media gateway control function MGCF server a softswitch an IP router an IP switch etc.

Although the systems and methods described herein are discussed with reference to example VoIP sessions it is contemplated that the described systems and methods may be used for any voice video and or data communications where QoS may be applied. Additionally either or both of the VoIP devices and may be replaced by or may complement other devices such as mobile devices or video conferencing devices. The systems and methods described here may also be applied to mobile telecommunications and data services using QoS.

The example S CSCF server receives the SIP INVITE message and forwards the SIP INVITE message to an application server AS . The application server may help determine QoS parameters associated with the VoIP session by for example providing grade of service information for the calling VoIP device . The application server may return one or more QoS parameter values to the S CSCF1 server in response to the SIP INVITE message .

After the S CSCF1 server receives QoS parameters from the AS the S CSCF1 server enters block to select a peered border element to handle the VoIP session. To select a peered border element the S CSCF1 server queries the ENUM server to resolve the called party E.164 destination e.g. dialed phone number from the INVITE message into a destination e.g. SIP URI and to return a list of peered border elements. Upon receiving the request the ENUM server resolves the called party E.164 destination to a SIP URI address. Resolving the E.164 destination to a SIP URI address may be accomplished by consulting an ENUM database which holds records mapping for example E.164 destinations or telephone numbers to SIP URI addresses. The ENUM database may also include records of peered border elements which may be updated periodically to reflect real time network conditions as described above. Each peered border element record may be associated with one or more priority fields indicating the relative capability of each peered border element to support QoS loads. The peered border element records may be organized into a list ordered by priority.

The ENUM server returns the SIP URI address and the list of prioritized peered border elements to the S CSCF1 server . The S CSCF1 server now having knowledge of the VoIP device associated with the calling party and the VoIP device associated with the called party determines any remaining QoS parameters associated with the session. The QoS parameters may include Grade of Service traffic type preferred mode of communication presence mode status and or any other parameter that may describe the QoS requirements of the VoIP session and have not been received from an external source e.g. the P CSCF1 server the application server . After identifying the values associated with the QoS parameters the S CSCF1 server calculates a composite QoS parameter. Using the composite QoS parameter and the list of prioritized peered border elements the S CSCF1 server determines an appropriate peered border element to handle the VoIP session.

After a peered border element e.g. peered border element is selected block the S CSCF1 server forwards the SIP INVITE message to an appropriate S CSCF2 server associated with Service Provider B. The S CSCF2 server may communicate with the application server or a different application server to register a QoS treatment for the session. After receiving a response from the application server the S CSCF2 server forwards the SIP INVITE message to the P CSCF1 server . The P CSCF1 server then sends an INVITE message including the URIs for the device to the selected peered border element which pre alerts the called device via the corresponding peered border element . Exchanges e.g. shown in may be performed and or responded to by standard messages such as for example SIP INVITE 100 Trying 183 Session Progress and or 200 OK.

When the VoIP device has been pre alerted to the session the VoIP devices and negotiate and establish the communication session . For example the IMS systems and begin to reserve network resources to provide QoS for the VoIP session. QoS resource reservation may occur according to published standards. For example the P CSCF1 server and the P CSCF2 server may generate a Packet Data Protocol PDP or other appropriate context and issue QoS authorization tokens to the respective VoIP devices and for use with the selected peered border element . PDP is a network protocol used by packet switching networks to communicate with general packet radio services GPRS networks. The PDP context includes the QoS profile. The authorization token may be sent as a part of the packet data associated with the VoIP session which alerts the peered border elements supporting the call to the priority of the packet data.

The Composite QoS Parameter Generator receives QoS parameters from the receiver a SIP INVITE message e.g. the message described in connection with and or other sources and generates a composite QoS parameter associated with the VoIP session. The composite QoS parameter is then passed to the Peered Border Element Selector . The Peered Border Element Selector receives the composite QoS parameter and the prioritized list and selects a peered border element from the prioritized list based on the priority values and the composite QoS parameter. For example the Peered Border Element Selector selects one of the peered border elements or that has the highest priority value for a VoIP session with the highest composite QoS parameter.

When a peered border element is selected for the VoIP session the Peered Border Element Notifier notifies the selected peered border element via the appropriate channels. The Peered Border Element Notifier registers the QoS treatment for the VoIP session with the selected peered border element and the P CSCF servers and generate a PDP context and QoS authorization tokens.

The example S CSCF server as shown in includes but does not show functionality currently attributed to S CSCF servers by those of ordinary skill in the art to emphasize using the composite QoS parameter and the prioritized list of peered border elements to assign a voice data and or video session to a peered border element.

After receiving the SIP URI address and the prioritized list of peered border elements the S CSCF server may calculate a composite QoS parameter from multiple QoS parameters associated with the VoIP session block . For example the S CSCF server may calculate a composite QoS parameter from a GoS parameter a traffic type parameter a preferred mode of communication parameter and a presence mode status parameter as described above in connection with . Alternatively the S CSCF server may receive the composite QoS parameter calculated from the QoS parameters by another server such as for example the P CSCF server routing the message from the VoIP device. The composite QoS parameter may then be used to compare the priority values of each peered border element and select a peered border element based on the comparison block . An example selection may include selecting a peered border element with a high priority value to handle a VoIP session with a high composite QoS parameter. Additionally or alternatively the S CSCF server may pass the VoIP session to a queue to be assigned in a particular order. When the VoIP session is assigned to a peered border element the S CSCF may relinquish control to another server to begin QoS resource reservation block .

As an alternative to assigning an IP multimedia session to one of the available peered border elements the peered border elements may be partitioned into p groups where p is the number of grades of service. The peered border elements may be partitioned into groups equally or unequally and or they may be assigned to groups based on relative serving capability. For the example grades of service described above a group of 100 peered border elements are partitioned into 5 groups. Each group Excellent Very Good Good Fair and Best Effort has 20 peered border elements to serve IP multimedia sessions. The 20 peered border elements in the Excellent group have the greatest serving capacity for IP multimedia sessions the 20 peered border elements in the Very Good group have the next best serving capacity etc. The peered border elements may alternatively be assigned to a group dynamically based on the serving capacity relative to the other available peered border elements . Although only two peered border elements are shown for clarity more such peered border elements may exist and can be accommodated as described herein.

The S CSCF1 server assigns an IP multimedia session to a peered border element in a group based on the GoS of the calling party which is retrieved as part of the subscriber profile from the HSS . The assignment to the peered border element may occur based on any algorithm to select a peered border element from the group corresponding to the GoS of the calling party. Alternatively the S CSCF1 server may receive a list of peered border elements as described above where the list also includes the group information for each peered border element . In this case the S CSCF1 server assigns the IP multimedia session to a peered border element from the group corresponding to the GoS of the calling party .

The processor platform of the example of includes at least one general purpose programmable processor . The processor executes coded instructions and or present in main memory of the processor e.g. within a random access memory RAM and or a read only memory ROM . The processor may be any type of processing unit such as a processor core a processor and or a microcontroller. The processor may execute among other things the example protocol message exchanges and or the example protocol exchanges and or the example machine accessible instructions of to implement the example methods and apparatus described herein.

The processor is in communication with the main memory including a ROM and or the RAM via a bus . The RAM may be implemented by DRAM SDRAM and or any other type of RAM device and ROM may be implemented by flash memory and or any other desired type of memory device. Access to the memory and the memory may be controlled by a memory controller not shown . One or both of the example memories and may be used to implement the example ENUM database of .

The processor platform also includes an interface circuit . The interface circuit may be implemented by any type of interface standard such as an external memory interface serial port general purpose input output etc. One or more input devices and one or more output devices are connected to the interface circuit .

Of course persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the order size and proportions of the memory illustrated in the example systems may vary. Additionally although this patent discloses example systems including among other components software or firmware executed on hardware it will be noted that such systems are merely illustrative and should not be considered as limiting. For example it is contemplated that any or all of these hardware and software components could be embodied exclusively in hardware exclusively in software exclusively in firmware or in some combination of hardware firmware and or software. Accordingly persons of ordinary skill in the art will readily appreciate that the above described examples are not the only way to implement such systems.

At least some of the above described example methods and or apparatus are implemented by one or more software and or firmware programs running on a computer processor. However dedicated hardware implementations including but not limited to an ASIC programmable logic arrays and other hardware devices can likewise be constructed to implement some or all of the example methods and or apparatus described herein either in whole or in part. Furthermore alternative software implementations including but not limited to distributed processing or component object distributed processing parallel processing or virtual machine processing can also be constructed to implement the example methods and or apparatus described herein.

It should also be noted that the example software and or firmware implementations described herein are optionally stored on a tangible storage medium such as a magnetic medium e.g. a disk or tape a magneto optical or optical medium such as a disk or a solid state medium such as a memory card or other package that houses one or more read only non volatile memories random access memories or other re writable volatile memories or a signal containing computer instructions. A digital file attachment to e mail or other self contained information archive or set of archives is considered a distribution medium equivalent to a tangible storage medium. Accordingly the example software and or firmware described herein can be stored on a tangible storage medium or distribution medium such as those described above or equivalents and successor media.

To the extent the above specification describes example components and functions with reference to particular devices standards and or protocols it is understood that the teachings of the invention are not limited to such devices standards and or protocols. Such systems are periodically superseded by faster or more efficient systems having the same general purpose. Accordingly replacement devices standards and or protocols having the same general functions are equivalents which are intended to be included within the scope of the accompanying claims.

Although certain example methods apparatus and articles of manufacture have been described herein the scope of coverage of this patent is not limited thereto. On the contrary this patent covers all methods apparatus and articles of manufacture fairly falling within the scope of the appended claims either literally or under the doctrine of equivalents.

