---

title: System and method for indexing automated telephone systems
abstract: A telephone subnet crawler is used to access automated telephone response systems and index the information, contents and structure contained therein. A database of the information, contents and structure of a plurality of automated telephone response systems is created by the telephone subnet crawler. A user interface provides callers with direct access to the information, contents and structure of the automated telephone response systems contained in the database. Where an automated telephone response system requires user input, the user interface calls the automated telephone response system and navigates to the node requiring user input, provides the user input and displays the results to the user. Where an automated telephone response system connects to an operator, the user interface calls the automated telephone response system, navigates to the node for an operator, and when an operator is detected, calls the user at a user provided callback number.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09509844&OS=09509844&RS=09509844
owner: FonCloud, Inc.
number: 09509844
owner_city: Toronto
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20151109
---
This application is a continuation of application Ser. No. 14 691 087 having a filing date of Apr. 20 2015 which itself is a continuation of application Ser. No. 11 969 155 having a filing date of Jan. 3 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 031 214 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 883 206 having filing date of Jan. 3 2007 entitled Indexing and Automation of Telephone or Computer Networks IRV s ACD s and Other Software or Hardware Systems the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety and all commonly owned.

The present invention generally relates to automated telephone response systems and in particular to systems and methods for indexing and automatically navigating an automated telephone response system.

As is well known in the art an automated telephone response system is a telephone based communication technology that provides callers with services based upon the callers responses to various prompts. A product or service provider will typically publish a telephone number and connect the telephone line to a computer system that detects voice and touch tones from an incoming telephone call. The provider then creates a series of messages that are accessed by the caller. The messages typically give menu choices or information that the caller can choose from by either voice response or touching a number on their telephone. Such automated telephone response systems include Interactive Voice Response IVR systems Automatic Call Distributors

Typical services that can be obtained through an automated telephone response system are hours of operation account information package tracking or connection to a human operator for more complex services. In the simplest form the caller will be greeted by a welcome message and given a choice of services to choose from. In this case the messages are pre recorded to provide the specified information. As an example a regional chain store may welcome the caller to the store call center and then give a choice such as For store hours press or say 1. For a list of store locations press or say 2. When the caller makes a selection the automated telephone response system then plays the appropriate message containing the information selected. In some instances more information may be required from the caller than just picking an option. For example a larger national chain store may choose not to give one message that lists all locations but rather give a message that says To find a store near you press or say 2. Selecting this option would then lead to a message that says Please enter or say your 5 digit zip code. When the caller enters their zip code the automated telephone response system then plays the message giving the location of the nearest store.

Automated telephone response systems can also provide more complex services and give dynamically created messages. While a credit card company for example may have pre recorded messages for their mailing address or for local branch locations they will also provide services such as account balance information payment due date or the ability to make a payment over the telephone. When a caller wishes to know their account balance the automated telephone response system may ask for the account number the caller s name or other identifying information such as a customer PIN number. The automated telephone response system then creates a reply message based upon the balance of the identified account a message that applies only to the caller s account. This level of interaction requires that the automated telephone response system be integrated with the credit card company s account management system. If further the caller wishes to make a payment over the telephone the automated telephone response system can prompt the user for an account number a payment amount and a payment date. Here the automated telephone response system must also be integrated with a banking verification system.

In many instances automated telephone response systems are inadequate to handle all of the caller s needs. This may be because the request is too complex to be adequately modeled as a series of menu steps or the service may be of an occasional or unforeseen nature. In these instances the provider may have made no provisions for such requests in the automated telephone response system. Also the automated telephone response system may be unable to make sense of the caller s responses. Examples include entering account numbers in error or that do not exist on the company s account management system or when the caller has a thick accent such that speech recognition software is unable to interpret the caller s responses. In these cases it is common for automated telephone response systems to route the caller to a human operator to handle the call. In addition the option to speak with a human operator is often provided within the menu choices as a courtesy to callers who do not wish to navigate the automated telephone response system.

Businesses that employ automated telephone response systems experience many benefits in terms of improvements in productivity quality of service and call volume. Because a caller can obtain a wide range of static information e.g. hours of operation location etc. and services e.g. account balance payments etc. from an automated telephone response system the need for operators is reduced. Even when an operator is required the automated telephone response system can off load the tasks associated with identifying the caller and other routine matters so operators can spend more time answering questions and solving problems. Furthermore because the automated telephone response system can effectively and efficiently route calls based upon the caller s needs the operators can be more specialized in particular areas of interest leading to higher quality assistance. Finally because fewer calls actually require the assistance of an operator the business can handle a larger volume of calls and can extend the hours of operation of the call center.

One other advantage provided by the automated telephone response system is the inherent call load leveling function provided by the operator hold queue. Typically when a caller requests an operator the automated telephone response system places the caller on hold while it determines if an operator is presently available. When an operator becomes available the caller who has been on hold the longest time is connected to that operator. Without this queuing function a business has a choice they can staff enough operators to handle the peak call volume but then have operators who are idle during off peak times or they can staff enough operator to handle some lower call volume and then have to turn away callers during the peak times. The operator hold queue permits the business to staff for the average call volume with callers in the queue left to experience longer hold times during peak times.

While automated telephone response systems have been a great boon to the businesses that employ them they have often been a source of frustration to the callers who experience them. Complaints typically focus on difficulty navigating the menus presented particularly as it relates to getting to the human operator and on waiting through the queue times. Successfully navigating an automated telephone response system often requires correctly selecting from up to ten menu items. In the first instance this may lead to confusion because by the time the message has listed the tenth option the caller may have forgotten the correct number to push or say to get to their destination. Furthermore the choices themselves may be confusing. The caller may not be sure whether to for example press or say 2 for account balance or press or say 3 for account status when what they wish to know their credit limit. Finally a caller may inadvertently press the wrong number on their telephone leading them down the wrong path. These problems are exacerbated when the automated telephone response system lacks adequate menu options to navigate back to the previous menu leaving the caller no option but to hang up and try the call again.

In order to improve call center efficiency businesses sometimes try to drive the caller to utilize the pre recorded or dynamically produced information. This often takes the form of obscuring the menu selections necessary to speak with a human operator. Here the automated telephone response system may require excessive information from the caller force the caller through several long information steps or otherwise make the caller attempt one or several services unsuccessfully before being given the option to speak with the operator. This often leaves callers frustrated and angry by the time they get to speak with the operator. Add to this a long wait in the operator hold queue sometimes up to a half hour or more and callers may simply give up in despair.

From the foregoing it will be apparent that there remains a need to improve the caller experience with automated telephone response systems while maintaining the productivity gains experienced by the businesses that employ them.

Embodiments of the invention are herein presented by way of example and include a computerized method is provided for allowing a user to access a human operator in an automated telephone system having a plurality of subnets wherein different subnets may have different designated human operators. The computerized method may comprise receiving a request for information from the user identifying a subnet within the automated telephone system based on the request for information using a telephone subnet crawler to navigate the subnet to reach a human operator pertinent to that subnet in the automated telephone system and initiating a telephone call between the user and the human operator.

Further a computerized method for allowing a user to access information in an automated telephone system having a plurality of nodes may comprise receiving search terms from the user to search for information from the automated telephone system translating the search terms into a desired node in the automated telephone system using a telephone subnet crawler to navigate to the desired node and offering the user an option of fetching the requested information for the user or initiating a telephone call between the user and the desired node.

A system aspect includes a system for allowing a user to access a human operator in an automated telephone system having a plurality of subnets wherein different subnets may have different designated human operators. The system may include an interface operable for requesting information from a user a search module connected to the interface operable to receive the information and to query a database for a subnet within the automated telephone system based on the information request a telephone subnet crawler connected to the search module and operable to navigate the subnet to reach a human operator pertinent to that subnet in the automated telephone system and a telephone module linked to the telephone subnet crawler and operable to initiate a telephone call between the user and the human operator.

By way of further example a system for allowing a user to access information in an automated telephone system having a plurality of nodes may comprise an interface operable to receive a search term or terms from a user to search for information from an automated telephone system a search module connected to the interface and operable to translate the search term into a desired node in the automated telephone system and a telephone subnet crawler connected to the search module and the interface and operable to navigate to the desired node wherein the interface is further adapted to offer the user an option of fetching the information for the user or initiating a telephone call between the user and the desired node.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings that show by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. It is to be understood that the various embodiments of the invention although different are not necessarily mutually exclusive. For example a particular feature structure or characteristic described herein in connection with one embodiment may be implemented within other embodiments without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. In addition it is to be understood that the location or arrangement of individual elements within each disclosed embodiment may be modified without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims appropriately interpreted along with the full range of equivalents to which the claims are entitled. In the drawings like numerals refer to the same or similar functionality throughout the several views.

It should also be noted that in the development of any such actual embodiment numerous decisions specific to circumstance must be made to achieve the developer s specific goals such as compliance with system related and business related constraints which will vary from one implementation to another. Moreover it will be appreciated that such a development effort might be complex and time consuming but would nevertheless be a routine undertaking for those of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of this disclosure.

The description and examples are presented solely for the purpose of illustrating the preferred embodiments of the invention and should not be construed as a limitation to the scope and applicability of the invention. While the compositions of the present invention are described herein as comprising certain materials it should be understood that the composition could optionally comprise two or more chemically different materials. In addition the composition can also comprise some components other than the ones already cited. In the summary of the invention and this detailed description each numerical value should be read once as modified by the term about unless already expressly so modified and then read again as not so modified unless otherwise indicated in context. Also in this detailed description it should be understood that any cited numerical range listed or described as being useful suitable or the like should be considered to include any and every point within the range including the end points. For example a range of from 1 to 10 is to be read as indicating each and every possible number along the continuum between about 1 and about 10. Thus if any or all specific data points within the range or conversely no data points within the range are explicitly identified or referred to it is to be understood that inventors appreciate and understand that any and all data points within the range are to be considered to have been specified and that inventors convey possession of the entire range and all points within the range.

The present disclosure views the interactive voice response system from the perspective of the caller and provides a quicker easier and more satisfying experience without placing any additional burden on the businesses that employ interactive voice response systems. Using such advances in computer hardware and software capabilities as Voice Over Internet Protocol VoIP Speech to Text STT Text to Speech STT and language translation the present disclosure shows an indexed data repository that contains the structure content and information of a number of interactive voice response enabled telephone subnets and a mechanism for indexing additional telephone subnets. The present disclosure also shows a system for granting callers access to the repository and quickly and effectively obtaining the services and information contained in the telephone subnets with less confusion and waste of time. As understood herein an automated telephone response system includes Interactive Voice Response IVR systems Automatic Call Distributors ADC Private Branch Exchanges PBX Voice Over IP VoIP systems other computer telephone technologies or hardware or software.

Upon dialing the registered subnet e.g. the subnet registered to the hypothetical ACME Company a caller is greeted by a welcome message and given the option to press 1 for further instructions in English or press 2 for Spanish. If 2 is selected by the caller a Spanish welcome message is given along with further options not shown . If on the other hand the caller chooses 1 a main menu message is given. Here the three options are 1 for general information 2 for account information or 3 other queries. Selecting 1 routes the caller to a pre recorded information message and the option to return to the main menu message . If from the main menu message the caller selects 2 for account information she next hears an account number query message where the caller can enter her account number. Upon entering the account number the account information message is dynamically created telling the caller her account information and the options 9 to return to the main menu message or 0 for the system operator are presented. Upon choosing 0 the caller is connected at with the system operator. Finally if the caller selects 3 for other inquiries from the main menu message she is routed to a spoken query message where the caller is asked to speak a request. Upon speaking the request a confirmation menu is given repeating the spoken request and asking the caller to confirm the request. If the request is correctly understood the caller is routed to further messages disposing of her request not shown . If the request cannot be understood the caller is routed to the system operator . From this illustration the automated telephone response system can be seen as a tree of nodes where each node contains the information and a set of options which are the branches to the other nodes. Some of the nodes e.g. the Spanish welcome message are seen to grant access to other telephone subnets not shown . Other nodes e.g. the account information message or the confirmation menu direct the caller to a human operator.

Indexing of automated telephone response systems consists of retrieving the information presented to callers through the automated telephone response system in a way similar to that employed by web crawlers. A web crawler is used to index websites on the Internet classify the information contained therein and place the information in a form that can be retrieved through web browsing or searching. A web crawler or spider is an automated script that systematically browses the World Wide Web creating copies of all web pages visited and indexing the content of the web pages. A web crawler can begin with the list of registered domain names published in the Domain Name System DNS and visit each site. There is no similar registry for automated telephone response systems a telephone number listing such as a telephone book does not contain information as to whether or not a given telephone number is backed up by an automated telephone response system . However there are still several ways to compile a list of the telephone numbers that identify an automated telephone response system enabled Telephone subnet including manually entering numbers adding references obtained from previously indexed Telephone subnets harvesting Telephone numbers from the World Wide Web using classical web crawling techniques and responding to user requests i.e. providing on demand services . With the exception of on demand services which will be discussed more fully below the method of obtaining the telephone numbers associated with automated telephone response systems is not critical.

With a classical web crawler once a page is visited the web crawler will proceed to visit each web link found on the page working its way down through each page until all pages in a domain are visited and indexed. There are many different crawling strategies algorithms and policies that can be implemented in a web crawler to create the index. Similar strategies algorithms and policies can be implemented in an automated telephone response system crawler. While it is not intended with this disclosure to discuss the details of how all such automated telephone response system crawlers could be implemented to create an index of interactive voice response system enabled automated telephone response systems the following example is given to illustrate the general features and the types of information that can be gathered with an automated telephone response system crawler. A depth first traversal of a graph is described with the additional capability of restarting the navigation of the automated telephone response system because such systems often do not permit navigation back upward. As such the crawler has to be able to restart at the root to traverse unvisited branches. Also note that any intelligent agent can act as the automated telephone response system crawler described. An example of such an intelligent agent is shown in where a computer system is shown generally as .

The computer system connects to the Internet and to the telephone network through the interface layer . The interface layer includes a telephone interface with dual tone multi frequency DTMF dialing and sound capability a web graphical user interface GUI and service application programming interfaces APIs . Connected to the interface layer is a set of high level modules that include the telephone subnet crawler indexer software a search browse module a statistics module and a translator module . Underlying the high level modules is a set of low level modules including a Text to Speech Speech to Text TTS STT module Voice Over Internet APIs a natural language processing pattern analyzer and a speech synthesizer . Finally the computer system has data storage . Users in this example access the computer system through the Internet . Operators associated with the automated telephone response system are accessed through the telephone network in this example. These access points are illustrative and not meant to limit the scope of the present disclosure.

As illustrated in the flowchart of the telephone subnet crawler indexer software fetches at the telephone number of an automated telephone response system from a repository i.e. a data structure on the data storage or from user input e.g. from on demand requests and calls at the telephone number on the telephone network with the telephone interface . When the automated telephone response system answers the call the system records at the node information in the data storage as for example in a .wav .mp3 or other audio file . The telephone subnet crawler indexer software next translates the node information at into text using the TTS STT module . At this point other functions can be performed on the node information such as hashing the message to speed later comparisons. Next the telephone subnet crawler indexer software compares at the current node information with the information from previously visited nodes and determines at if the present node has been visited before. Methods for comparison include comparing the hash for exact matches or performing vector matching to find approximate matches to account for minor differences resulting from telephone line noise. If at the node has never been visited before the telephone subnet crawler indexer software performs at an analysis of the node information and a translation into a software recognized format. As such the natural language processing pattern analyzer module identifies patterns in the textual information as for example hours of operation press x or the list of options and composes a list of allowed and expected inputs. Here the software should recognize that for example For English press 1 is the functional equivalent of Press 1 for English and that both messages mean that sending a DTMF 1 through the telephone interface is a valid option to navigate the automated telephone response system . Additionally the software should recognize e.g. that If you are a provider please say Provider is to be understood to mean that the word Provider can be formed by the speech synthesizer and sent through the telephone interface to navigate the automated telephone response system . In this way a database is created that captures the information content and structure of the automated telephone response system . One additional function performed at in the analysis of the node information is to create a branch map that identifies all possible branch options for the node and a branch visited flag for each branch that identifies whether or not the crawler has visited that branch. Each flag is initially set to unvisited . If at another automated telephone response system number is detected the newly found automated telephone response system number is recorded at into the repository with an appropriate indicator that indexing of the associated automated telephone response system is required. This processing is often performed asynchronously to permit complete traversal of the original automated telephone response system before initiating indexing of other such systems.

If either at the node has been visited before or at no other automated telephone response system number is detected or at a newly found telephone subnet number is recorded into the repository the branch visited flags for the current node are checked at . If there are unvisited branches the telephone subnet crawler indexer software selects the first unvisited branch at and determines the expected input necessary to navigate to that branch. The telephone subnet crawler indexer software next sends at the input necessary to navigate to the first unvisited branch through the telephone interface to the automated telephone response system and processing proceeds at where the system records the new node information and processing for that node continues as described. If at all branches from the present node have been visited the telephone subnet indexer crawler software determines at if all branches in all parent nodes have been visited and if so the call is terminated at and all further processing on the present automated telephone response system is halted. If at all branches in all parent notes have not been visited the call is terminated and the automated telephone response system is redialed at where the telephone subnet crawler indexer software begins to traverse the subnet again until all branches are indexed.

Once a telephone book of automated telephone response systems has been built and the content and structure indexed a user interface can be built to permit easy navigation of the automated telephone response systems . A user interface permits a user to browse the information or search for the specific automated telephone response system associated with a business of interest to the user . While the computer system includes a web graphical user interface GUI the user interface herein disclosed is not limited to residing on the same computer as the telephone subnet crawler indexer software and date storage . In several embodiments of the present disclosure the user interface is an audio interface i.e. an interactive voice response system a web interface and a mobile device interface among others.

The simplest way for a user to interact with the system is to request for the information from a given node. This is accomplished via explicit querying of the database. As an example the user may enter a string such as 800 123 4567 1 English 1 General Information and expect to hear a playback of the general information message . This model works if the user knows in advance the desired branch path and is comparable to entering a URL in a web browser. A more complex interaction involves implicit querying using information associated with an automated telephone response system and its nodes. Here keywords can be entered into a search engine and the web GUI returns the results in a fashion akin to a web search engine. shows a capture from a web GUI where the user has entered the query terms ACME office hours and initiated the search by clicking on the Search button . In this hypothetical situation two results were returned one each associated with the office hours for ACME Toys and for ACME Cars . Here the user is left to determine which ACME she is looking for. As an additional mater it should be noted that other relevant information can be displayed with the results such as links to each business website or access to the human operator. Note however that in both of the above situations the information resides in the database and there is no need to actually call the automated telephone response system for the user to obtain the information she seeks.

As noted above it is also possible with interactive voice response systems to provide input to the automated telephone response system and thereby obtain dynamically created information. In such situations it is not possible to obtain the information the user seeks without making a telephone call to the automated telephone response system . However it is still possible for the web GUI to mediate the transaction and obtain the information for the user . is another example screen capture from the web GUI where the user has entered the query term ACME and initiated the search by clicking on the Search button . Here because no specific search term beyond the company name has been provided the web GUI returned a clickable list of available services within the automated telephone response system . The user has selected a set of menu items corresponding with the nodes within the automated telephone response system here ACME Customer Service English and Order Status . This sequence was identified as requiring the user to input into an input field to proceed farther. The user thereupon enters the appropriate account information 543342 and clicks on the Go button . The immediate result is a hold message. At this point the web GUI directs the telephone interface to call the automated telephone response system navigate to the Account Number node input the user s account number as entered in the input field and record the response from the automated telephone response system . When the automated telephone response system responds the web GUI directs the TTS STT module to interpret the response and displays the information as the final response with package location and the expected delivery time. As an alternative not shown the web GUI could give the user the option to hear the information as recorded e.g. by playing a .wav .mp3 or other audio file . Note here that while the computer system hosts an interaction requiring a call to the automated telephone response system the user is freed from navigating the interactive voice response system and in particular she does not have to wait on the telephone for the requested information.

In another type of interaction the user may desire to speak directly with a human operator . This may be because the desired information is not available on the interactive voice response system of the automated telephone response system or because the user needs to carry out a transaction that is too complex to be handled without the human operator . is an example of a screen capture from the web GUI where the user has entered the query term ACME and initiated the search by clicking on the Search button . Again the user has selected a set of menu items corresponding with the nodes within the automated telephone response system . Here the user has accessed ACME Customer Service English and Billing Questions . This sequence resulted in the display of a callback number input field . When the user enters their Telephone number 326 643 9838 and clicks on the Go button the immediate result is a waiting for operator message. At this point the web GUI directs the telephone interface to call the automated telephone response system navigate to the Operator node and wait on hold until the operator comes on the line. Here in a simple mode when the operator comes on the line the computer system calls the user at the number provided in the callback number input field and conferences the user in with the operator . In one embodiment of the present disclosure the computer system plays an introductory message to the operator such as a user specific recording or information necessary for the call e.g. user information account number etc. to mitigate delays in conferencing the user and the operator together. Here again the user is free to pursue other tasks while the computer system handles the navigation of the automated telephone response system and the wait time for the operator .

The function of the previous examples can be generalized as illustrated in the flowchart shown in . The user enters the query into the query field and the web GUI directs at the search browse module to perform a reverse lookup on the search term to find the telephone subnet number that is the subject of the user s query. Upon finding the relevant subnet the web GUI further directs at the search browse module to perform a full text search of subnet tree for nodes that contain the search terms. The web GUI determines at if the nodes found require input from the user . If the nodes found require input from the user the web GUI prompts at the user for the appropriate input in the input field . The web GUI then directs at the telephone interface to call the relevant automated telephone response system navigate at to the selected node and submit at the user input. Upon receipt at of the dynamic information the web GUI presents the final response to the user . If at any of the nodes found do not require input from the user the web GUI determines at if a request is for a human operator . If not the information found in the node is returned at to the web GUI and displayed to the user in the results field . If at the request is for a human operator the web GUI directs at the telephone interface to call the relevant automated telephone response system navigate at to the selected node and wait for the operator to come on the line at . When at the operator is detected the web GUI directs at the telephone interface to dial the user at the number the user input into the callback number input field and conference the user and the operator together.

In another embodiment the computer system directs the natural language processing pattern analyzer to detect when an operator is about to come on the line and calling the user at the number provided in the callback number input field shortly before the operator comes on the line. This minimizes the likelihood that the operator upon receiving a call instituted by the computer system and finding no person on the line simply hangs up the call in favor of their next incoming call. This functionality can be implemented by the detection of standard greetings that immediately precede the operator s appearance on the line e.g. standard boilerplate language like this call may be monitored for quality purposes .

In an additional embodiment the computer system includes a statistical module that tracks the wait times for operators on each requested automated telephone response system so as to provide the user with an estimated wait time until the next operator becomes available. Such a statistical module can take into account such variables as time of day day of the week or month or if other users have requested an operator from the same automated telephone response system recently the wait time experienced by the other users . In another embodiment the estimated wait time can be provided to the user before they decide to call the operator.

In one embodiment called the on demand service when a user wishes to access the automated telephone response system of a business that has not previously been indexed hence there is not data available on the information content or structure of the automated telephone response system and so the web GUI is unable to parse the database to satisfy the user s query. In this case the web GUI directs the telephone subnet crawler indexer to crawl the automated telephone response system and index the information content and structure so that future requests for access to that business automated telephone response system can be satisfied in the normal manner. In addition the web GUI can instruct the user to return at a later time to make their query. In implementation this amounts to the user input shown in .

In many cases it is standard practice for a business that employs an automated telephone response system to record the calls that get handled by the operators . Ostensibly the recordings are for training purposes. However another unstated purpose is to have an accurate record of the transaction for legal reasons. This is a luxury afforded to the business that has typically been unavailable to the caller because of the need to attach cumbersome equipment to telephone lines and the necessity to inform a party that their conversations are recorded. In one embodiment of the present disclosure the web GUI gives the user the option to maintain a recording of the call when she is connected with the operator . This can be done by providing the user with a .wav .mp3 or other audio file of the conversation with the operator .

In another embodiment of the present invention a software or hardware based text to text language translators is employed to give users who speak foreign languages not supported by a business automated telephone response system greater access to the information and content therein. Here the user enters their preferred language into the web GUI . The web GUI then provides all search and query screens to the user in their preferred language. Then when the user enters their query into the query field the language translator translates the query into the language of the database it is created in. The search can then take place normally. When the search is completed the language translator translates the retrieved information into the user s preferred language.

A practical example is illustrated in . Here the user accesses the web GUI from their home Internet connection . She enters a request to speak with the operator on the ACME automated telephone response system . The web GUI with data from the statistics module informs the user that the current wait time to speak with an ACME operator is 45 minutes. Deeming it important enough to speak with the operator as soon as possible the user enters the number for her mobile telephone in the callback number input field and logs off of her home Internet connection . The web GUI calls the ACME automated telephone response system over a telephone line navigates to the system operator node and waits until it detects the operator . During this time the user has left her home with her mobile telephone . When the operator comes on the line the web GUT plays an introduction message to the operator while simultaneously calling the user s mobile telephone over a second telephone line and conferences the operator and the user together.

In another embodiment of the present invention the web GUI presents the user with the option to speak with more than one operator and on separate automated telephone response systems on telephone subnets and . A common example is found when a patient needs to coordinate medical billing information with insurance payment information. In such situations it is convenient for the patient to speak with representatives from both the medical service provider and the insurance company at the same time. However if both the medical service provider and the insurance company have automated telephone response systems the patient typically cannot get both representatives on the telephone at the same time. Here the patient user places a request for simultaneous contact with operators and on the web GUI and leaves her mobile telephone number in the callback number input field . The web GUI gets the expected wait times for each operator and from the statistics module places the call to the one with the longest wait time for this example and waits for the operator to come on the line . The web GUI will also call the second operator when the expected wait time equals that of the first operator . When both operators and arc on their respective lines and the web GUI calls the user s mobile telephone and conferences all three lines and together.

While a single computer system has been used to illustrate the functionality of the telephone subnet crawler and user interface it is not necessary to the spirit of the present disclosure that all components reside on the same computer system . The individual modules and functions may be divided among several separate computers. In the extreme a separate computer may perform each module and function. However common approaches include separate computers such as a database server a user hosting interface computer and telephone exchange VoIP computers.

From the foregoing it will be appreciated that a telephone subnet indexer crawler can create a useful database that contains the information content and structure of automated telephone response systems and that a user interface that access the database and has the ability to navigate automated telephone response systems will create an enhances user experience.

The particular embodiments disclosed above are illustrative only as the invention may be modified and practiced in different but equivalent manners apparent to those skilled in the art having the benefit of the teachings herein. Furthermore no limitations are intended to the details of construction or design herein shown other than as described in the claims below. It is therefore evident that the particular embodiments disclosed above may be altered or modified and all such variations are considered within the scope and spirit of the invention. In particular every range of values of the form from about A to about B or equivalently from approximately A to B or equivalently from approximately A B disclosed herein is to be understood as referring to the power set the set of all subsets of the respective range of values. Accordingly the protection sought herein is as set forth in the claims below.

Although the invention has been described relative to various selected embodiments herein presented by way of example there are numerous variations and modifications that will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art in light of the above teachings. It is therefore to be understood that within the scope of the claims hereto attached and supported by this specification the invention may be practiced other than as specifically described.

