---

title: Rapid deployment communications tile
abstract: Various embodiments are described that relate to a rapid deployment communications tile. As opposed to running various data and/or power wires, a construction crew can use set of tiles that have built in data and/or power transmission capabilities. These tiles can be keyed such that they interlock together to form a relatively uniform surface, such that the surface can also be used as a floor. Further, the tiles can have hardware components that enable the data and/or power transmission capabilities. These hardware components can be environmentally protected such that their performance is not subject to environmental factors.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09657484&OS=09657484&RS=09657484
owner: The United States of America, as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09657484
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150212
---
The innovation described herein may be manufactured used imported sold and licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America without the payment of any royalty thereon or therefor.

In a modern environment electrical power and data communication can be assets in achieving a goal. In one example a speaker can speak at a podium on a stage. Electrical power can be used to provide lighting for the speaker and to provide sound amplification through a microphone and speaker system. Similarly data communication can be used to have a presentation transferred from a personal electronics device of the speaker to a projector. When the speaker speaks at a permanent structure the goal can be easily achieved due to access to the electrical power and data communication. However in a non permanent structure these assets can be more difficult to obtain.

In one embodiment a system comprises a first tile that comprises a conduit and an engagement portion. The conduit can transmit a media upon the first tile. The engagement mechanism can cause the conduit to operatively couple with a second tile such that the media travels upon the conduit of the first tile in connection with travelling upon the second tile.

In one embodiment a system comprises a supply tile an access tile and a transmission tile. The supply tile can be configured to supply a media. The access tile can be configured to afford access to the media. The transmission tile can be configured to transmit the media supplied by the supply tile to the access tile. The supply tile and the transmission tile can be operatively coupled together and interconnect with one another in a keyed manner. The transmission tile and the access tile can be operatively coupled together and interconnect with one another in a keyed manner.

In one embodiment a system comprises a recognition component an analysis component and an identification component. The recognition component can recognize a situation where a transmission failure occurs in a tile environment where the tile environment transmits media from one location of the tile environment to another and where the tile environment is a plurality of interlocking tiles that are operatively coupled to one another. The analysis component can analyze the tile environment to produce an analysis result. The identification component can identify a failure tile of the tile environment that causes the transmission failure where the failure is identified through use of the analysis result. The recognition component the analysis component the identification component or a combination thereof can be implemented at least in part by way of non software.

In a battlefield tactical situation power and data can be valuable resources. In one example a combatant force can take control of a strategically important hill. It can be beneficial for a command group to establish a headquarters at the top of the hill since the hill can provide a valuable field of vision for commanders. To make adequate decisions the headquarters can have power data and telephone capabilities that allow information to be sent and received. With the complexity of modern technology it can be a difficult process to individually place wires for the headquarters.

With employment of a set of rapid deployment communications tiles the headquarters can be quickly and securely created in a relatively short amount of time. These tiles can be fabricated with conduits for transfer of power data and other capabilities. These tiles can link together to create a tile environment where power data and other resources can travel from a source e.g. a generator to a destination e.g. an electrical outlet without exposed wires from the source to the destination.

A designer can determine a configuration for a set of tiles and the set of tiles can be placed together into the configuration. If the configuration is not found to be suitable then individual tiles can be moved and or exchanged such that a new configuration is used. Thus a tile environment can fit specific needs of a situation terrain etc.

Further various safety and maintenance features can be exploited by using the rapid deployment communication tiles. The tiles can have conduits within them that interlink together. An outer material of the tiles can protect the conduits from environmental elements. Also since the conduits are within the tiles the conduits do not pose a tripping hazard or other hazards such as dangers from exposed power cables. Therefore the tile environment provides a safe environment that can be quickly constructed and deconstructed.

The following includes definitions of selected terms employed herein. The definitions include various examples. The examples are not intended to be limiting.

 One embodiment an embodiment one example an example and so on indicate that the embodiment s or example s can include a particular feature structure characteristic property or element but that not every embodiment or example necessarily includes that particular feature structure characteristic property or element. Furthermore repeated use of the phrase in one embodiment may or may not refer to the same embodiment.

 Computer readable medium as used herein refers to a medium that stores signals instructions and or data. Examples of a computer readable medium include but are not limited to non volatile media and volatile media. Non volatile media may include for example optical disks magnetic disks and so on. Volatile media may include for example semiconductor memories dynamic memory and so on. Common forms of a computer readable medium may include but are not limited to a floppy disk a flexible disk a hard disk a magnetic tape other magnetic medium other optical medium a Random Access Memory RAM a Read Only Memory ROM a memory chip or card a memory stick and other media from which a computer a processor or other electronic device can read. In one embodiment the computer readable medium is a non transitory computer readable medium.

 Component as used herein includes but is not limited to hardware firmware software stored on a computer readable medium or in execution on a machine and or combinations of each to perform a function s or an action s and or to cause a function or action from another component method and or system. Component may include a software controlled microprocessor a discrete component an analog circuit a digital circuit a programmed logic device a memory device containing instructions and so on. Where multiple components are described it may be possible to incorporate the multiple components into one physical component or conversely where a single component is described it may be possible to distribute that single component between multiple components. The term component can be interchangeable and have the same meaning as the term module.

 Software as used herein includes but is not limited to one or more executable instructions stored on a computer readable medium that cause a computer processor or other electronic device to perform functions actions and or behave in a desired manner. The instructions may be embodied in various forms including routines algorithms methods threads and or programs including separate applications or code from dynamically linked libraries.

The supply tile can be configured to supply a media e.g. power data telephone other such as supplying the media to other tiles e.g. directly to the transmission tile and ultimately to the access tile . This supplying can be done through wiring. In one example the supply tile can connect to a source for the media e.g. a generator that provides the power such as by way of an illustrated connection point. The connection points that are illustrated can be on a top side and or bottom of the supply tile e.g. a part that is not configured to interlock with another tile .

The access tile can be configured to afford access to the media. As shown the access tile can have a series of plugs that allow for power access. In addition the access tile can have jacks that enable use of data and or telephone communication. The plugs and or jacks can be on the tile s top bottom or on flat edge. The access tile can have a wireless emitter that facilitates wireless access to power data or telephone capabilities.

The transmission tile can be configured to transmit the media supplied by the supply tile to the access tile . The transmission tile can function as a go between for the supply tile and the access tile . Multiple transmission tiles can chain together such that the supply tile and the access tile are relatively far apart from one another. As part of being chained together keyed portions of the tiles can interlock to create a uniform surface even if this surface is not level.

It is to be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art that illustrates but one possible configuration of the system . In one example an end tile can be used such that the system does not have a keyed edge. In another example the tiles may have more than one keyed side while the transmission tile can have less than four keyed sides. Further tiles can be multi functional in one example the access tile can function as a transmission tile as well such that another connected tile can afford access.

The engagement portions can cause the transmission tile to operatively couple with the supply tile of e.g. by way of the left connectors and the access tile of e.g. by way of the upper connectors such that they function together as one pathway and are environmentally sealed. Further the engagement portions can function as disengagement portions that cause the transmission tile to operatively dis couple with the supply tile of and or the access tile of . In one embodiment the individual engagement portion can be a handle a screw e.g. manipulated by an outside tool such as a screwdriver or the knob illustrated by views and that is manipulated by a user e.g. a first position for engagement and a second position for disengagement . The engagement portions can have access to a door or cover such that the engagement portions are not exposed when not in use e.g. a door that allows for access from the top of the transmission tile so as not to create a tripping hazard. Also the engagement portions can be in a compartment that is environmentally sealed e.g. when not in use . In one embodiment the engagement portions and or the connectors can be a magnetic unit that can couple when two connectors e.g. one connector contact one another and or a signal is received for the magnetics to connect. In one embodiment the connectors are held within the channels and when one of the engagement portions is engaged the connectors extrude out from the channels e.g. this is limited to when the channels are correctly aligned with other channels of another tile such that operative coupling occurs . In one embodiment the channels can have one end with the connectors and one end able to receive a connector of another channel from another tile.

The channels can be hardware elements that are used for transmission of the media. The channels can function as a pathway that transfers the media from the supply tile of to the access tile of and can be part of these tiles as well. The channels can also function to transfer the media from the access tile of to the supply tile of . In this example two way media communication can occur between a server connected to the supply tile of and a terminal that gains access to the server by way of the access tile of . The channels can be made of such a material e.g. plastic that they do not corrode in the presence of salt and the transmission tile can be used when heavy salt is expected e.g. a snowy area where salt is used to de ice roads .

For the channels and the upper right black block can be for other media while the upper two cables can be for analog telephone. The left central eight cables can be for one Ethernet pathway while the right central eight cables can be for a different Ethernet pathway. The lower three cables can be for power. While the channels and are shown as having multiple capabilities e.g. power and analog telephone it is to be appreciated that the channel can be dedicated to one capability and or the transmission tile of can have multiple channels with each channel dedicated to a capability.

Two of the channels or can engage with one another as shown by the interaction of the receptor environment female end and a connector environment male end . The connector environment can include the connector of in addition to the channel of . The environments show pins receptors for reception of the pins the outer layer a flexible material between the outer layer and the connector chamfers that extend from the connector and a flex point e.g. a flex point that allows for connection on uneven surfaces . The channels or can include the connectors of that are recessed before engagement and once the portion of is engaged are no longer recessed and form an environmental seal with another channel of tile. To help facilitate interconnection of channels physical guides such as rails can be used to make quick connection. These environments and illustrate how channels from two different tiles e.g. two transmission tiles of the transmission tile of and the access tile of can engage with one another e.g. engage in response to a command from the engagement portion of . When engaged with one another the channels can form into one channel that is environmentally sealed e.g. through use of one or more connectors of .

The extender along with other tiles can include a keyed portion along with a non keyed portion. The non keyed portion can be along a top bottom or edge. This non keyed portion as well as the keyed portion can include ports that allow for access to the channels . A port can be a connection point that allows a channel to be tapped down path. This channel tapping can be for input and or output. In one example returning to the supply tile of can supply telephone and power the transmission tile of can include a telephone channel and a power channel and the access tile of can enable access to telephone and power capabilities. The transmission tile of can include two ports one for telephone and one for power. The telephone port can enable use of the telephone channel while still allowing access at the access tile of . Similarly the power port can be connected to a back up generator to supply power in case of a failure with the supply tile of and or a generator connected to the supply tile of .

The conduit can be a first conduit while the second tile comprises a second conduit that transmits the media across the second tile. The engagement mechanism can function such that the first conduit and the second conduit engage with one another. Engaging with one another includes functioning into a single pathway that stretches multiple tiles upon which the media can travel. In this the media can travel across the first conduit and the second conduit in series e.g. media flows through the first conduit and then the second conduit with or without still flowing through the first conduit .

The media can be for example data power or analog telephone. In one embodiment the conduit can retain a cable dedicated to a media type. With this the conduit can retain a data cable that transmits the data a power cable that transmits the power and an analog telephone cable that transmits analog telephone information. These cables can be environmentally sealed by an outer layer of the conduit and in turn be protected from outside elements to which the first tile may be exposed. The seal can be at the cable level so a cable has its own seal or done at the conduit level such that the conduit physically retains the cables and protection of the conduit leads to protection of the cables.

The first tile and the second tile can interconnect with one another to form a substantially flat surface. The first tile and the second tile can be keyed such that the first tile and second tile fit together when the first conduit and second conduit align and such that the first tile and second tile do not fit together when the first conduit and second conduit do not align. With this tiles can be specifically designed in a manner similar to that of a puzzle. The keying can be so that the tiles only fit together when correct alignment occurs and this should make construction of the tile environment easier.

Using the transmission tile as illustrated in as an example the channels of are shown as being able to extrude out the left and the top side by way of the connectors of while the lower and right sides can be receiver area that can receive connectors of another tile although this is one configuration and in another configuration the channels can extrude out of a different number of sides such as all four sides and the connectors interlock in a manner different than male and female such as through flat contact . To put another way the upper and left sides of the transmission tile of can be male ends while the right and lower sides of the tile of can be female ends. If one were to try to align two male ends then the keying of the tiles would not align together and therefore the tiles would not fit in an interconnected manner to form a substantially flat surface. This would indicate to a construction team member that orientation of the second tile should be changed.

The system also comprises a housing that can be in one embodiment a rubber material that protects the conduit such that the conduit is not exposed on the top bottom and or at least one side surface of the first tile. The first tile and the second tile can be floor tiles that when interconnected create a floor surface. The floor tiles can be strong enough to withstand foot traffic as well as truck transit traffic without damaging or impacting success of the conduit . While illustrated with a housing that protects the top and bottom it is to be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art that the system can function absent such a housing.

In one embodiment the tile environment can be a plurality of floor tiles with some tiles being supply tiles some tiles being transmission tiles and some tiles being access tiles. A user can attempt to access power from a specific access tile and the power can be unavailable. The user can send in a failure notification to the system and the recognition component can recognize from this request that a failure to deliver power to the specific access tile occurs. The analysis component can perform diagnostic evaluations on the tile environment such as through sending and receiving test signals and process the results. The identification component can interpret these results and determine why the failure occurs. In this example the test signals can indicate that when the signals reach a specific floor tile the signals do not exit that floor tile. The identification component can determine through internal logic that this means that the specific floor tile is not functioning correctly. With this situation the identification component or another component can try to correct the failing tile or send a notification for a construction crew member to fix or replace the failing tile.

Replacement of the tile can be performed by the construction crew member through use of a mechanism the engagement mechanism of . The crew member can place the mechanism in a first position to operatively de couple the failure tile from the tile environment. The crew member can then remove the failure tile and replace the failure tile with the replacement tile. With the replacement tile in place the crew member can place the mechanism in a second position to operatively couple the replacement tile to the tile environment. This can be done on multiple tiles e.g. the replacement tile and a tile that connects to the replacement tile . In one embodiment mechanisms on both tiles are engaged for coupling to occur while in another embodiment just one mechanism is engaged for coupling.

A plurality of tiles can be connected to create the tile environment. In one example each time a tile is keyed with another tile engagement of tile channels occurs. In another example when a tile is completely surrounded or is not anticipated to have another tile connected engagement of the tile channel s then occurs for that tile. In yet another example tiles can be interlocked together and once in place a command can be sent causing all connectors to simultaneously engage with other channels to create the environmentally protected pathways. A tile can include a component that determines if a tile is connected at a certain end and if the tile is not connected then the connector remains within the channel so as not to environmentally expose the channel and or the connector. If the tile is connected at a certain end then a connector of the tile can engage and form a pathway with another tile.

The tile environment can be built by a construction crew over an existing floor or over a non uniform surface e.g. the tiles can bend to match curvature of the non uniform surface or the tiles shift if sand underneath the tiles moves without causing disconnection of channels from one another . The tile environment can be placed as examples in an open air environment e.g. outside on the ground exposed to the elements in a vehicle within a wall or within a ceiling tile. A set of tiles can be transported and this can be easier logistically since individual cables may not be transported or less cables may be transported since cables are integrated into the tiles e.g. tiles have pre fabricated conduits built in . This can reduce construction time manpower requirements e.g. less number of workers and or less skilled workers and build complexities.

Further the tile environment can be multi dimensional. In one example a number of the tiles can be floor tiles but some tiles can connect in an elbow manner to sit 90 degrees from the floor tiles. In this example access tiles can be at the 90 degree position to simulate wall outlets and or partition outlets and thus function as a wall or partition. With this the connectors of can connect in various directions e.g. with channels directly across from the channels of or with channels perpendicular to the channels of . In another example an entire room or parts of a room can be made of tiles including floor walls and a ceiling. The tiles can be uniform or vary in size depth etc.

Tiles disclosed herein can include hinges. These hinges can be used to aid in the tiles fitting along non uniform spaces. In addition these hinges can be used to transition a tile environment from a floor portion to a wall portion. A tile itself can have one or more hinge portions and or tiles can interconnect such that the interconnection can be hinged. This hinging can be such that in various positions environmental protection is maintained such as through use of a flexible cover.

While the methods disclosed herein are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art that the methods are not restricted by the order of the blocks as some blocks can take place in different orders. Similarly a block can operate concurrently with at least one other block.

