---

title: Covalent granzyme B inhibitors
abstract: Covalent Granzyme B inhibitors, compositions that include the compounds, and methods for using the compounds. A method for treating cutaneous scleroderma, epidermolysis bullosa, radiation dermatitis, alopecia areata, and discoid lupus erythematosus are provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09458192&OS=09458192&RS=09458192
owner: viDA Therapeutics Inc.
number: 09458192
owner_city: Vancouver
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20150731
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 62 032 465 filed Aug. 1 2014 which application is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Granzyme B is a pro apoptotic serine protease found in the granules of cytotoxic lymphocytes CTL and natural killer NK cells. Granzyme B is released towards target cells along with the pore forming protein perforin resulting in its perforin dependent internalization into the cytoplasm and subsequent induction of apoptosis see for e.g. Medema et al. 27 3492 3498 1997 . However during aging inflammation and chronic disease Granzyme B can also be expressed and secreted by other types of immune e.g. mast cell macrophage neutrophil and dendritic cells or non immune keratinocyte chondrocyte cells and has been shown to possess extracellular matrix remodeling activity Choy et al. 24 12 2245 2250 2004 and Buzza et al. 280 23549 23558 2005 .

Inhibitors of Granzyme B in humans have been limited to a relatively weak nonspecific inhibitors such as isocoumarins Odake et al. 1991 30 8 2217 2227 b biological inhibitors such as serpinB9 Sun et al. 1996 271 44 27802 27809 c covalently coupled inhibitors such as aldehydes Willoughby et al. 2002 12 16 2197 halomethyl ketones Kam et al. 2000 1477 1 2 307 323 and phosphonates Mahrus and Craik 2005 . 12 567 77 and Kam et al. 2000 and d tricyclic inhibitors Willoughby et al. 2002 .

Nonspecific inhibitors such as isocoumarins are not sufficiently potent or specific to be effective treatments for Granzyme B related diseases disorders and conditions. Likewise the use of biological inhibitors such as serpins is limited by the ability to deliver the inhibitor to the target mammal the cost of manufacturing the biological agents and other off target activities such as inhibition of other serine proteases such as human neutrophil elastase Dahlen et al. 1999 1451 2 3 233 41 Caspase 1 Annaud et al. 1999 15 342 Pt3 655 65 Krieg et al. 2001 15 11 1971 82 and Young et al. 2000 191 9 1535 1544 Caspase 4 and Caspase 8 Annaud et al. 1999 .

The tricyclic inhibitors Willoughby et al. 2001 also suffer from synthetic complexity high manufacturing cost due to the complex core and accompanying low water solubility.

Despite the advances in development of Granzyme B inhibitors there exists a need for covalent compounds that inhibit Granzyme B. The present invention seeks to fulfill this need and provides further related advantages.

The present invention provides Granzyme B inhibitor compounds compositions that include the compounds and methods for using the compounds.

 b C Calkyl optionally substituted with a carboxylic acid carboxylate or carboxylate C Cester group COH CO COC C an amide optionally substituted with an alkylheteroaryl group or a heteroaryl group 

 iii C Ccycloalkyl optionally substituted with C Calkyl optionally substituted C Caryl optionally substituted C Cheteroaryl amino or carboxylic acid 

 iv C Caryl optionally substituted with C Calkyl optionally substituted C Caryl optionally substituted C Cheteroaryl amino or carboxylic acid v heterocyclyl 

wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C Calkyl C Cheteroalkyl C Calkenyl C Caryl aralkyl and C Cheteroaryl and

wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C Calkyl C Cheteroalkyl C Calkenyl C Caryl aralkyl and C Cheteroaryl 

its stereoisomers tautomers and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof wherein R R R and Rare as above for Formula I .

In another aspect the invention provides pharmaceutical compositions comprising a Granzyme B inhibitor compound of the invention and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

In a further aspect of the invention a method for inhibiting Granzyme B is provided. In one embodiment the method comprises administering an effective amount of a Granzyme B inhibitor compound of the invention or a pharmaceutical composition of the invention to a subject in need thereof.

In a further aspect of the invention methods for treating a disease disorder or condition treatable by inhibiting Granzyme B is provided. In one embodiment the method comprises administering a therapeutically effective amount of a Granzyme B inhibitor compound of the invention or a pharmaceutical composition of the invention to a subject in need thereof. Representative routes of administration include topical administration oral administration and administration by injection.

In one embodiment the invention provides a method for treating discoid lupus erythematosus DLE comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a Granzyme B inhibitor compound of the invention or a pharmaceutical composition of the invention to a subject in need thereof. In certain embodiments the Granzyme B inhibitor compound of the invention or pharmaceutical composition is administered topically.

Cosmetic compositions comprising a Granzyme B inhibitor compound of the invention and a cosmetically acceptable carrier are also provided as are methods for using the compositions to treat reduce and or inhibit the appearance of ageing in the skin.

The present invention provides covalent Granzyme B inhibitor compounds compositions that include the compounds and methods for using the compounds. The compounds of the invention effectively inhibit Granzyme B.

As used herein the term covalent Granzyme B inhibitor compounds or covalent inhibitor compound refers to a Granzyme B inhibitor compound that covalently binds to Granzyme B. In certain embodiments the covalent binding is reversible. In certain embodiments the covalent binding is irreversible.

The compounds of the invention include a reactive functional group that is effective to covalently couple the compound to a Granzyme B active site. In certain embodiments the reactive functional group is an electrophilic serine trap such as an aldehyde keto ester keto benzothiazole or keto oxadiazole. Suitable reactive functional groups are described in Willoughby et al. 12 2002 2197 2200 expressly incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Other suitable reactive functional groups include trifluoromethyl ketone pentafluoroethylketone keto benzimidazole keto benzothiazole and keto benzoxazole groups. Representative reactive functional groups are described below.

The compounds of the invention can be used as diagnostics e.g. irreversible covalent inhibitor compounds such as chloromethylketones and can be used as probes of active Granzyme B or as active site blocking agents.

 b C O NHR wherein Ris alkyl or substituted alkyl e.g. C1 C6 alkyl or aryl or substituted aryl e.g. CHCH 

 c C O OR wherein Ris hydrogen alkyl or substituted alkyl e.g. C1 C6 alkyl aryl or substituted aryl e.g. CHCH and

 b C Calkyl optionally substituted with a carboxylic acid carboxylate or carboxylate C Cester group COH CO C O OC C an amide optionally substituted with an alkylheteroaryl group or a heteroaryl group 

 iii C Ccycloalkyl optionally substituted with C Calkyl optionally substituted C Caryl optionally substituted C Cheteroaryl amino or carboxylic acid 

 iv C Caryl optionally substituted with C Calkyl optionally substituted C Caryl optionally substituted C Cheteroaryl amino or carboxylic acid 

wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C Calkyl C Cheteroalkyl C Calkenyl C Caryl aralkyl and C Cheteroaryl and

wherein R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C Calkyl C Cheteroalkyl C Calkenyl C Caryl aralkyl and C Cheteroaryl and

its stereoisomers tautomers and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof wherein R R R and Rare as above for Formula I .

In further embodiments the invention provides compounds having Formulae I and II their stereoisomers tautomers and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof wherein

 iii C Ccycloalkyl optionally substituted with C Calkyl optionally substituted C Caryl optionally substituted C Cheteroaryl amino or carboxylic acid 

 iv C Caryl optionally substituted with C Calkyl optionally substituted C Caryl optionally substituted C Cheteroaryl amino or carboxylic acid and

In certain embodiments R when defined as C Calkyl substituted with a carboxylic acid or carboxylate group is 

optionally wherein one or more single methylene carbons are substituted with a fluoro hydroxy amino C Calkyl e.g. methyl or C Caryl group 

optionally wherein one or more single methylene carbons are substituted with two fluoro e.g. difluoro perfluoro or C Calkyl e.g. gem dimethyl groups 

optionally wherein one or more single methylene carbons are substituted with two alkyl groups that taken together with the carbon to which they are attached form a 3 4 5 or 6 membered carbocyclic ring e.g. spiro groups such as cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl and cyclohexyl and

optionally wherein adjacent carbon atoms from an unsaturated carbon carbon bond e.g. alkenyl such as CH CH or taken form a benzene ring e.g. 1 2 1 3 and 1 4 phenylene or

In certain embodiments the invention provides compounds having Formulae I or II their stereoisomers tautomers and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof wherein 

For the compounds of Formulae I and II in certain embodiments Ris a a group that imparts increased electrophilic character to the adjacent keto group and activates the keto group toward nucleophilic attack e.g. aminoacids in the Granzyme B active site . In certain embodiments Ris CHCl and the reactive functional group is a a chloromethylketone i.e. C O CHCl . In other embodiments Ris hydrogen and the reactive functional group is an aldehyde i.e. CHO .

Each of the inhibitor compounds of the invention contain asymmetric carbon centers and give rise to stereoisomers i.e. optical isomers such as diastereomers and enantiomers . It will be appreciated that the present invention includes such diastereomers as well as their racemic and resolved enantiomerically pure forms. It will also be appreciated that in certain configurations the relative stereochemistry of certain groups may be depicted as cis or trans when absolute stereochemistry is not shown.

Some of the compounds described herein contain olefinic double bonds and unless specified otherwise are meant to include both E and Z geometric isomers.

Certain of the compounds of the invention may exist in one or more tautomeric forms e.g. acid or basic forms depending on pH environment . It will be appreciated that the compounds of the invention include their tautomeric forms i.e. tautomers .

When the compounds of the present invention are basic salts may be prepared from pharmaceutically acceptable non toxic acids including inorganic and organic acids. Examples of such acids include acetic benzenesulfonic benzoic camphorsulfonic citric ethanesulfonic fumaric gluconic glutamic hydrobromic hydrochloric isethionic lactic maleic malic mandelic methanesulfonic mucic nitric pamoic pantothenic phosphoric succinic sulfuric tartaric and p toluenesulfonic acids.

As used herein the term alkyl refers to a saturated or unsaturated branched straight chain or cyclic monovalent hydrocarbon group derived by the removal of one hydrogen atom from a single carbon atom of a parent alkane alkene or alkyne. Representative alkyl groups include methyl ethyls such as ethanyl ethenyl ethynyl propyls such as propan 1 yl propan 2 yl cyclopropan 1 yl prop 1 en 1 yl prop 1 en 2 yl prop 2 en 1 yl allyl cycloprop 1 en 1 yl cycloprop 2 en 1 yl prop 1 yn 1 yl and prop 2 yn 1 yl butyls such as butan 1 yl butan 2 yl 2 methyl propan 1 yl 2 methyl propan 2 yl cyclobutan 1 yl but 1 en 1 yl but 1 en 2 yl 2 methyl prop 1 en 1 yl but 2 en 1 yl but 2 en 2 yl buta 1 3 dien 1 yl buta 1 3 dien 2 yl cyclobut 1 en 1 yl cyclobut 1 en 3 yl cyclobuta 1 3 dien 1 yl but 1 yn 1 yl but 1 yn 3 yl and but 3 yn 1 yl and the like. Where a specific level of saturation is intended the expressions alkanyl alkenyl and alkynyl are used. Alkyl groups include cycloalkyl groups. The term cycloalkyl refers to mono bi and tricyclic alkyl groups having the indicated number of carbon atoms. Representative cycloalkyl groups include cyclopropyl cyclopentyl cycloheptyl adamantyl cyclododecylmethyl and 2 ethyl 1 bicyclo 4.4.0 decyl groups. The alkyl group may be unsubstituted or substituted as described below.

 Alkanyl refers to a saturated branched straight chain or cyclic alkyl group. Representative alkanyl groups include methanyl ethanyl propanyls such as propan 1 yl propan 2 yl isopropyl and cyclopropan 1 yl butanyls such as butan 1 yl butan 2 yl sec butyl 2 methyl propan 1 yl isobutyl 2 methyl propan 2 yl t butyl and cyclobutan 1 yl and the like. The alkanyl group may be substituted or unsubstituted. Representative alkanyl group substituents include

wherein each X is independently a halogen and Rand Rare independently hydrogen C1 C6 alkyl C6 C14 aryl arylalkyl C3 C10 heteroaryl and heteroarylalkyl as defined herein.

 Alkenyl refers to an unsaturated branched straight chain cyclic alkyl group or combinations thereof having at least one carbon carbon double bond derived by the removal of one hydrogen atom from a single carbon atom of a parent alkene. The group may be in either the cis or trans conformation about the double bond s . Representative alkenyl groups include ethenyl propenyls such as prop 1 en 1 yl prop 1 en 2 yl prop 2 en 1 yl allyl prop 2 en 2 yl and cycloprop 1 en 1 yl cycloprop 2 en 1 yl butenyls such as but 1 en 1 yl but 1 en 2 yl 2 methyl prop 1 en 1 yl but 2 en 1 yl but 2 en 1 yl but 2 en 2 yl buta 1 3 dien 1 yl buta 1 3 dien 2 yl cyclobut 1 en 1 yl cyclobut 1 en 3 yl and cyclobuta 1 3 dien 1 yl and the like. The alkenyl group may be substituted or unsubstituted. Representative alkenyl group substituents include

wherein each X is independently a halogen and Rand Rare independently hydrogen C1 C6 alkyl C6 C14 aryl arylalkyl C3 C10 heteroaryl and heteroarylalkyl as defined herein.

 Alkynyl refers to an unsaturated branched straight chain or cyclic alkyl group having at least one carbon carbon triple bond derived by the removal of one hydrogen atom from a single carbon atom of a parent alkyne. Representative alkynyl groups include ethynyl propynyls such as prop 1 yn 1 yl and prop 2 yn 1 yl butynyls such as but 1 yn 1 yl but 1 yn 3 yl and but 3 yn 1 yl and the like. The alkynyl group may be substituted or unsubstituted. Representative alkynyl group substituents include those as described above for alkenyl groups.

The term haloalkyl refers to an alkyl group as defined above having the one or more hydrogen atoms replaced by a halogen atom. Representative haloalkyl groups include halomethyl groups such as chloromethyl fluoromethyl and trifluoromethyl groups and haloethyl groups such as chloroethyl fluoroethyl and perfluoroethyl groups. The term heteroalkyl refers to an alkyl group having the indicated number of carbon atoms and where one or more of the carbon atoms is replaced with a heteroatom selected from O N or S. Where a specific level of saturation is intended the expressions heteroalkanyl heteroalkenyl and heteroalkynyl are used. Representative heteroalkyl groups include ether amine and thioether groups. Heteroalkyl groups include heterocyclyl groups. The term heterocyclyl refers to a 5 to 10 membered non aromatic mono or bicyclic ring containing 1 4 heteroatoms selected from O S and N. Representative heterocyclyl groups include pyrrolidinyl piperidinyl piperazinyl tetrahydrofuranyl tetrahydropuranyl and morpholinyl groups. The heteroalkyl group may be substituted or unsubstituted. Representative heteroalkyl substituents include

wherein each X is independently a halogen and Rand Rare independently hydrogen C1 C6 alkyl C6 C14 aryl arylalkyl C3 C10 heteroaryl and heteroarylalkyl as defined herein.

The term alkoxy refers to an alkyl group as described herein bonded to an oxygen atom. Representative C1 C3 alkoxy groups include methoxy ethoxy propoxy and isopropoxy groups.

The term alkylamino refers an alkyl group as described herein bonded to a nitrogen atom. The term alkylamino includes monoalkyl and dialkylaminos groups. Representative C1 C6 alkylamino groups include methylamino dimethylamino ethylamino methylethylamino diethylamino propylamino and isopropylamino groups.

The term alkylthio refers an alkyl group as described herein bonded to a sulfur atom. Representative C1 C6 alkylthio groups include methylthio propylthio and isopropylthio groups.

The term aryl refers to a monovalent aromatic hydrocarbon group derived by the removal of one hydrogen atom from a single carbon atom of a parent aromatic ring system. Suitable aryl groups include groups derived from aceanthrylene acenaphthylene acephenanthrylene anthracene azulene benzene chrysene coronene fluoranthene fluorene hexacene hexaphene hexalene as indacene s indacene indane indene naphthalene octacene octaphene octalene ovalene penta 2 4 diene pentacene pentalene pentaphene perylene phenalene phenanthrene picene pleiadene pyrene pyranthrene rubicene triphenylene trinaphthalene and the like. In certain embodiments the aryl group is a C5 C14 aryl group. In other embodiments the aryl group is a C5 C10 aryl group. The number of carbon atoms specified refers to the number of carbon atoms in the aromatic ring system. Representative aryl groups are phenyl naphthyl and cyclopentadienyl. The aryl group may be substituted or unsubstituted. Representative aryl group substituents include

wherein each X is independently a halogen and Rand Rare independently hydrogen C1 C6 alkyl C6 C14 aryl arylalkyl C3 C10 heteroaryl and heteroarylalkyl as defined herein.

The term aralkyl refers to an alkyl group as defined herein with an aryl group optionally substituted as defined herein substituted for one of the alkyl group hydrogen atoms. Suitable aralkyl groups include benzyl 2 phenylethan 1 yl 2 phenylethen 1 yl naphthylmethyl 2 naphthylethan 1 yl 2 naphthylethen 1 yl naphthobenzyl 2 naphthophenylethan 1 yl and the like. Where specific alkyl moieties are intended the terms aralkanyl aralkenyl and aralkynyl are used. In certain embodiments the aralkyl group is a C6 C20 aralkyl group e.g. the alkanyl alkenyl or alkynyl moiety of the aralkyl group is a C1 C6 group and the aryl moiety is a C5 C14 group . In other embodiments the aralkyl group is a C6 C13 aralkyl group e.g. the alkanyl alkenyl or alkynyl moiety of the aralkyl group is a C1 C3 group and the aryl moiety is a C5 C10 aryl group. In certain embodiments the aralkyl group is a benzyl group.

The term heteroaryl refers to a monovalent heteroaromatic group derived by the removal of one hydrogen atom from a single atom of a parent heteroaromatic ring system which may be monocyclic or fused ring i.e. rings that share an adjacent pair of atoms . A heteroaromatic group is a 5 to 14 membered aromatic mono or bicyclic ring containing 1 4 heteroatoms selected from O S and N. Representative 5 or 6 membered aromatic monocyclic ring groups include pyridine pyrimidine pyridazine furan thiophene thiazole oxazole and isooxazole. Representative 9 or 10 membered aromatic bicyclic ring groups include benzofuran benzothiophene indole pyranopyrrole benzopyran quionoline benzocyclohexyl and naphthyridine. Suitable heteroaryl groups include groups derived from acridine arsindole carbazole carboline chromane chromene cinnoline furan imidazole indazole indole indoline indolizine isobenzofuran isochromene isoindole isoindoline isoquinoline isothiazole isoxazole naphthyridine oxadiazole oxazole perimidine phenanthridine phenanthroline phenazine phthalazine pteridine purine pyran pyrazine pyrazole pyridazine pyridine pyrimidine pyrrole pyrrolizine quinazoline quinoline quinolizine quinoxaline tetrazole thiadiazole thiazole thiophene triazole xanthene and the like. In certain embodiments the heteroaryl group is a 5 14 membered heteroaryl group. In other embodiments the heteroaryl group is a 5 10 membered heteroaryl group. Preferred heteroaryl groups are those derived from thiophene pyrrole benzothiophene benzofuran indole pyridine quinoline imidazole oxazole and pyrazine. The heteroaryl group may be substituted or unsubstituted. Representative heteroaryl group substituents include those described above for aryl groups.

The term heteroarylalkyl refers to an alkyl group as defined herein with a heteroaryl group optionally substituted as defined herein substituted for one of the alkyl group hydrogen atoms. Where specific alkyl moieties are intended the terms heteroarylalkanyl heteroarylalkenyl or heteroarylalkynyl are used. In certain embodiments the heteroarylalkyl group is a 6 20 membered heteroarylalkyl e.g. the alkanyl alkenyl or alkynyl moiety of the heteroarylalkyl is a C1 C6 group and the heteroaryl moiety is a 5 14 membered heteroaryl group. In other embodiments the heteroarylalkyl group is a 6 13 membered heteroarylalkyl e.g. the alkanyl alkenyl or alkynyl moiety is C1 C3 group and the heteroaryl moiety is a 5 10 membered heteroaryl group .

The term acyl group refers to the C O R group where R is selected from optionally substituted alkyl optionally substituted aryl and optionally substituted heteroaryl as defined herein.

The term substituted refers to a group in which one or more hydrogen atoms are each independently replaced with the same or different substituent s .

Representative compounds of the invention and related intermediates were prepared from commercially available starting materials or starting materials prepared by conventional synthetic methodologies. Representative compounds of the invention were prepared according to Methods A to F as described below and illustrated in . The preparations of certain intermediates I 1 to I 10 useful in the preparation of compounds of the invention are described in the Synthetic Intermediate section below.

The preparation of representative compounds and their characterization are described in Examples C1 C8. The structures of representative compounds are set forth in Table 1.

A Granzyme B enzymatic inhibition assay is described in Example D1 and Example D2. The compounds of the invention identified in Table 1 exhibited Granzyme B inhibitory activity. In certain embodiments select compounds exhibited IC

The pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention include an inhibitor compound of the invention e.g. a compound of Formulae I or II as an active ingredient or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof in combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and optionally other therapeutic ingredients.

The term pharmaceutically acceptable salts refers to salts prepared from pharmaceutically acceptable bases including inorganic bases and organic bases. Representative salts derived from inorganic bases include aluminum ammonium calcium copper ferric ferrous lithium magnesium manganic manganous ammonium potassium sodium and zinc salts. Representative salts derived from pharmaceutically acceptable organic bases include salts of primary secondary and tertiary amines substituted amines including naturally occurring substituted amines cyclic amines and basic ion exchange resins such as arginine betaine caffeine choline N N dibenzylethylenediamine diethylamine 2 diethylaminoethanol 2 dimethylaminoethanol ethanolamine ethylenediamine N ethyl morpholine N ethylpiperidine glucamine glucosamine histidine hydrabamine isopropylamine lysine methylglucamine morpholine piperazine piperidine polyamine resins procaine purines theobromine triethylamine trimethylamine tripropylamine and trimethamine.

Compositions can include one or more carriers acceptable for the mode of administration of the preparation be it by topical administration lavage epidermal administration sub epidermal administration dermal administration subdermal administration transdermal administration subcutaneous administration systemic administration injection inhalation oral or any other mode suitable for the selected treatment. Topical administration includes administration to external body surfaces e.g. skin as well as to internal body surfaces e.g. mucus membranes for vaginal or rectal applications by for example suppositories . Suitable carriers are those known in the art for use in such modes of administration.

Suitable compositions can be formulated by means known in the art and their mode of administration and dose determined by a person of skill in the art. For parenteral administration the compound can be dissolved in sterile water or saline or a pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle used for administration of non water soluble compounds. For enteral administration the compound can be administered in a tablet capsule or dissolved or suspended in liquid form. The tablet or capsule can be enteric coated or in a formulation for sustained release. Many suitable formulations are known including polymeric or protein microparticles encapsulating a compound to be released ointments pastes gels hydrogels foams creams powders lotions oils semi solids soaps medicated soaps shampoos medicated shampoos sprays films or solutions which can be used topically or locally to administer a compound. A sustained release patch or implant may be employed to provide release over a prolonged period of time. Many techniques known to one of skill in the art are described in Remington the Science Practice of Pharmacy by Alfonso Gennaro 20th ed. Williams Wilkins 2000 . Formulations can contain excipients polyalkylene glycols such as polyethylene glycol oils of vegetable origin or hydrogenated naphthalenes. Biocompatible biodegradable lactide polymer lactide glycolide copolymer or polyoxyethylene polyoxypropylene copolymers can be used to control the release of a compound. Other potentially useful delivery systems for a modulatory compound include ethylene vinyl acetate copolymer particles osmotic pumps implantable infusion systems and liposomes. Formulations can contain an excipient for example lactose or may be aqueous solutions containing for example polyoxyethylene 9 lauryl ether glycocholate and deoxycholate or can be an oily solution for administration in the form of drops as a gel or for other semi solid formulation.

Compounds or pharmaceutical compositions in accordance with this invention or for use in the methods disclosed herein can be administered in combination with one or more other therapeutic agents as appropriate. Compounds or pharmaceutical compositions in accordance with this invention or for use in the methods disclosed herein can be administered by means of a medical device or appliance such as an implant graft prosthesis stents and wound dressings. Also implants can be devised that are intended to contain and release such compounds or compositions. An example would be an implant made of a polymeric material adapted to release the compound over a period of time.

One skilled in the art will appreciate that suitable methods of administering a Granzyme B inhibitor directly to the eye are available i.e. invasive and noninvasive methods . Although more than one route can be used to administer the Granzyme B inhibitor a particular route can provide a more immediate and more effective reaction than another route. The present use is not dependent on the mode of administering the agent to an animal preferably a human to achieve the desired effect and the described routes of administration are exemplary. As such any route of administration is appropriate so long as the agent contacts an ocular cell. Thus the Granzyme B inhibitor can be appropriately formulated and administered in the form of an injection eye lotion ointment and implant.

The Granzyme B inhibitor can be applied for example systemically topically intracamerally subconjunctivally intraocularly retrobulbarly periocularly e.g. subtenon delivery subretinally or suprachoroidally. In certain cases it can be appropriate to administer multiple applications and employ multiple routes to ensure sufficient exposure of ocular cells to the Granzyme B inhibitor e.g. subretinal and intravitreous . Multiple applications of the Granzyme B inhibitor can also be required to achieve the desired effect.

Depending on the particular case it may be desirable to non invasively administer the Granzyme B inhibitor to a patient. For instance if multiple surgeries have been performed the patient displays low tolerance to anesthetic or if other ocular related disorders exist topical administration of the Granzyme B inhibitor may be most appropriate. Topical formulations are well known to those of skill in the art. Such formulations are suitable in the context of the use described herein for application to the skin or to the surface of the eye. The use of patches corneal shields see U.S. Pat. No. 5 185 152 and ophthalmic solutions see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 710 182 and ointments is within the skill in the art.

The Granzyme B inhibitor also can be present in or on a device that allows controlled or sustained release such as an ocular sponge meshwork mechanical reservoir or mechanical implant. Implants see U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 443 505 4 853 224 and 4 997 652 devices see U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 554 187 4 863 457 5 098 443 and 5 725 493 such as an implantable device e.g. a mechanical reservoir an intraocular device or an extraocular device with an intraocular conduit or an implant or a device comprised of a polymeric composition are particularly useful for ocular administration of the expression vector . The Granzyme B inhibitor also can be administered in the form of sustained release formulations see U.S. Pat. No. 5 378 475 comprising for example gelatin chondroitin sulfate a polyphosphoester such as bis 2 hydroxyethyl terephthalate or a polylactic glycolic acid.

When used for treating an ocular disease the Granzyme B inhibitor is administered via an ophthalmologic instrument for delivery to a specific region of an eye. Use of a specialized ophthalmologic instrument ensures precise administration while minimizing damage to adjacent ocular tissue. Delivery of the Granzyme B inhibitor to a specific region of the eye also limits exposure of unaffected cells to the Granzyme B inhibitor. A preferred ophthalmologic instrument is a combination of forceps and subretinal needle or sharp bent cannula.

Alternatively the Granzyme B inhibitor can be administered using invasive procedures such as for instance intravitreal injection or subretinal injection optionally preceded by a vitrectomy or periocular e.g. subtenon delivery. The pharmaceutical composition of the invention can be injected into different compartments of the eye e.g. the vitreal cavity or anterior chamber .

While intraocular injection is preferred injectable compositions can also be administered intramuscularly intravenously intraarterially and intraperitoneally. Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers for injectable compositions are well known to those of ordinary skill in the art see Pharmaceutics and Pharmacy Practice J. B. Lippincott Co. Philadelphia Pa. Banker and Chalmers eds. pages 238 250 1982 and ASHP Handbook on Injectable Drugs Toissel 4th ed. pages 622 630 1986 .

An effective amount of a Granzyme B inhibitor or a pharmaceutical composition of the invention as described herein includes a therapeutically effective amount or a prophylactically effective amount. A therapeutically effective amount refers to an amount effective at dosages and for periods of time necessary to achieve the desired therapeutic result such as reduced levels of Granzyme B activity. A therapeutically effective amount of a compound may vary according to factors such as the disease state age sex and weight of the subject and the ability of the compound to elicit a desired response in the subject. Dosage regimens can be adjusted to provide the optimum therapeutic response. A therapeutically effective amount is also one in which any toxic or detrimental effects of the compound are outweighed by the therapeutically beneficial effects. A prophylactically effective amount refers to an amount effective at dosages and for periods of time necessary to achieve the desired prophylactic result such as Granzyme B activity. Typically a prophylactic dose is used in subjects prior to or at an earlier stage of disease so that a prophylactically effective amount may be less than a therapeutically effective amount.

It is to be noted that dosage values can vary with the severity of the condition to be alleviated. For any particular subject specific dosage regimens can be adjusted over time according to the individual need and the professional judgment of the person administering or supervising the administration of the compositions. Dosage ranges set forth herein are exemplary only and do not limit the dosage ranges that can be selected by a medical practitioner. The amount of active compound s in the composition can vary according to factors such as the disease state age sex and weight of the subject. Dosage regimens can be adjusted to provide the optimum therapeutic response. For example a single bolus can be administered several divided doses can be administered over time or the dose can be proportionally reduced or increased as indicated by the exigencies of the therapeutic situation. It may be advantageous to formulate parenteral compositions in dosage unit form for ease of administration and uniformity of dosage.

In general compounds of the invention should be used without causing substantial toxicity. Toxicity of the compounds of the invention can be determined using standard techniques for example by testing in cell cultures or experimental animals and determining the therapeutic index i.e. the ratio between the LD the dose lethal to 50 of the population and the LD the dose lethal to 100 of the population . In some circumstances however such as in severe disease conditions it may be necessary to administer substantial excesses of the composition.

In a further aspect the invention provides methods of using the compounds of the invention as Granzyme B inhibitors.

In one embodiment the invention provides a method for inhibiting Granzyme B in a subject. In the method an effective amount of a compound of the invention e.g. a compound of Formulae I or II is administered to a subject in need thereof.

In another embodiment the invention provides a method for treating a disease disorder or condition treatable by inhibiting Granzyme B. In the method a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of the invention e.g. a compound of Formulae I or II is administered to a subject in need thereof.

As used herein the term disease disorder or condition treatable by inhibiting Granzyme B refers to a disease disorder or condition in which Granzyme B is involved in the pathway related to for the disease disorder or condition and that inhibiting Granzyme B results in the treatment or prevention of the disease disorder or condition.

Representative methods of treatment using the compounds of the invention include those described for Granzyme B inhibitors in WO 2007 101354 Methods of Treating Reducing and Inhibiting the Appearance of Ageing in the Skin WO 2009 043170 Treatment of Dissection Aneurysm and Atherosclerosis Using Granzyme B Inhibitors WO 2012 076985 Granzyme B Inhibitor Compositions Methods and Uses for Promoting Wound Healing each expressly incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. The compounds of the invention are useful for treating reducing and inhibiting the appearance of aging of the skin treating dissection aneurysm and atherosclerosis and promoting wound healing.

Other disease and disorders described as treatable using the Granzyme B inhibitors are disclosed in WO 2003 065987 Granzyme B Inhibitors expressly incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Disease and disorders described as treatable by Granzyme B inhibitors in this reference include autoimmune or chronic inflammatory diseases such as systemic lupus erythematosis chronic rheumatoid arthritis type I diabetes mellitus inflammatory bowel disease biliary cirrhosis uveitis multiple sclerosis Crohn s disease ulcerative colitis bullous pemphigoid sarcoidosis psoriasis autoimmune myositis Wegener s granulomatosis ichthyosis Graves ophthalmopathy asthma schleroderma and Sjogren s syndrome. The Granzyme B inhibitors described in the reference are noted as more particularly useful to treat or prevent diseases or disorders including diseases or disorders resulting from transplantation of organs or tissue graft versus host diseases brought about by transplantation autoimmune syndromes including rheumatoid arthritis systemic lupus erythematosus Hashimoto s thyroiditis multiple sclerosis myasthenia gravis type I diabetes uveitis posterior uveitis allergic encephalomyelitis glomerulonephritis post infectious autoimmune diseases including rheumatic fever and post infectious glomerulonephritis inflammatory and hyperproliferative skin diseases psoriasis atopic dermatitis contact dermatitis eczematous dermatitis seborrhoeic dermatitis lichen planus pemphigus bullous pemphigoid epidermolysis bullosa urticaria angioedemas vasculitis erythema cutaneous eosinophilia lupus erythematosus acne alopecia areata keratoconjunctivitis vernal conjunctivitis uveitis associated with Behcet s disease keratitis herpetic keratitis conical cornea dystrophia epithelialis corneae corneal leukoma ocular pemphigus Mooren s ulcer scleritis Graves opthalmopathy Vogt Koyanagi Harada syndrome sarcoidosis pollen allergies reversible obstructive airway disease bronchial asthma allergic asthma intrinsic asthma extrinsic asthma dust asthma chronic or inveterate asthma late asthma and airway hyper responsiveness bronchitis gastric ulcers vascular damage caused by ischemic diseases and thrombosis ischemic bowel diseases inflammatory bowel diseases necrotizing enterocolitis intestinal lesions associated with thermal burns coeliac diseases proctitis eosinophilic gastroenteritis mastocytosis Crohn s disease ulcerative colitis migraine rhinitis eczema interstitial nephritis Goodpasture s syndrome hemolytic uremic syndrome diabetic nephropathy multiple myositis Guillain Barre syndrome Meniere s disease polyneuritis multiple neuritis mononeuritis radiculopathy hyperthyroidism Basedow s disease pure red cell aplasia aplastic anemia hypoplastic anemia idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura autoimmune hemolytic anemia agranulocytosis pernicious anemia megaloblastic anemia anerythroplasia osteoporosis sarcoidosis fibroid lung idiopathic interstitial pneumonia dermatomyositis leukoderma vulgaris ichthyosis vulgaris photoallergic sensitivity cutaneous T cell lymphoma arteriosclerosis atherosclerosis aortitis syndrome polyarteritis nodosa myocardosis scleroderma Wegener s granuloma Sjogren s syndrome adiposis eosinophilic fascitis lesions of gingiva periodontium alveolar bone substantia ossea dentis glomerulonephritis male pattern alopecia or alopecia senilis by preventing epilation or providing hair germination and or promoting hair generation and hair growth muscular dystrophy pyoderma and Sezary s syndrome Addison s disease ischemia reperfusion injury of organs which occurs upon preservation transplantation or ischemic disease endotoxin shock pseudomembranous colitis colitis caused by drug or radiation ischemic acute renal insufficiency chronic renal insufficiency toxinosis caused by lung oxygen or drugs lung cancer pulmonary emphysema cataracta siderosis retinitis pigmentosa senile macular degeneration vitreal scarring corneal alkali burn dermatitis erythema multiforme linear IgA ballous dermatitis and cement dermatitis gingivitis periodontitis sepsis pancreatitis diseases caused by environmental pollution aging carcinogenesis metastasis of carcinoma and hypobaropathy disease caused by histamine or leukotriene C4 release Behcet s disease autoimmune hepatitis primary biliary cirrhosis sclerosing cholangitis partial liver resection acute liver necrosis necrosis caused by toxin viral hepatitis shock or anoxia B virus hepatitis non A non B hepatitis cirrhosis alcoholic cirrhosis hepatic failure fulminant hepatic failure late onset hepatic failure acute on chronic liver failure augmentation of chemotherapeutic effect cytomegalovirus infection HCMV infection AIDS cancer senile dementia trauma and chronic bacterial infection. To the extent that the diseases and disorders noted in the reference are treatable by the Granzyme B inhibitors described in the reference the Granzyme B inhibitors of the present invention are also useful in treating and or ameliorating a symptom associated with these diseases and conditions.

Elevated Granzyme B levels have been identified in cells and tissues from subjects suffering from a variety of diseases and conditions including Rasmussen encephalitis amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ALS chronic inflammation Stevens Johnson syndrome SJS toxic epidermal necrolysis TEN Kawasaki disease idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis chronic obstructive pulmonary disease COPD coronary artery disease CAD transplant vascular disease TVD restenosis acute respiratory distress syndrome ARDS chronic obstructive sialadentis associated with sialolithiasis vitiligo allergic contact dermatitis ACD atopic dermatitis AD pityriasis rosea PR rheumatoid arthritis RA osteoarthritis OA vasculitic neuropathy sensory perineuritis ischemic stroke spinal cord injury myasthenia gravis MG lymphocytic gastritis autoimmune cholangitis AIC nodular regenerative hyperplasia NRH of the liver achalasia esophagitis eosinophilic fasciitis cryptorchidism necrotizing lymphadenitis Duchenne muscular dystrophy facioscapulo humeral muscular dystrophy and Higashi syndrome. Other diseases and conditions in which elevated Granzyme B levels have been identified include those described in WO 2009 043167 Granzyme A and Granzyme B Diagnostics expressly incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. The Granzyme B inhibitors of the invention may be useful for treating alleviating or ameliorating a symptom of diminishing the extent of stabilizing or ameliorating or palliating the diseases and conditions noted above in which elevated Granzyme B levels have been identified. A description of intracellular versus extracellular Granzyme B in immunity and disease is provided in Granville et al. Laboratory Investigation 2009 1 26 expressly incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. The reference provides a listing of conditions in which the pathogenic role of Granzyme B has been identified.

The compounds of the invention are useful in treating cutaneous scleroderma epidermolysis bullosa radiation dermatitis alopecia areata and discoidal lupus erythematosus.

Scleroderma refers to a heterogeneous group of autoimmune fibrosing disorders. Limited cutaneous systemic sclerosis CREST syndrome or LcSSc develop sclerosis of the skin distal to their elbows and knees and have facial involvement. Patients with diffuse cutaneous systemic sclerosis DcSSc develop proximal in addition to distal skin sclerosis. Both groups of patients are also at high risk of developing internal organ involvement. Patients with LcSSc and DcSSc suffer from Raynaud s phenomenon excessively reduced blood flow in response to cold or emotional stress causing discoloration of the fingers toes and occasionally other areas believed to be the result of vasospasms that decrease blood supply to the respective regions with high frequencies. Management of progressive skin involvement is dependent on additional comorbidities. In patients with skin involvement only mycophenolate mofetil Cellsept immunomodulator or methotrexate T cell modulator have been recommended.

Epidermolysis bullosa acquisita EBA is a chronic mucocutaneous autoimmune skin blistering disease. EBA patients can be classified into two major clinical subtypes noninflammatory classical or mechanobullous and inflammatory EBA which is characterized by cutaneous inflammation. In patients with inflammatory EBA widespread vesiculobullous eruptions are observed typically involving the trunk central body extremities and skin folds. Usually the patients suffer from pruritus rashes . Autoantibodies targeting type VII collagen COLT has been implicated in the pathogenesis. Therefore EBA is a prototypical autoimmune disease with a well characterized pathogenic relevance of autoantibody binding to the target antigen. EBA is a rare disease with an incidence of 0.2 0.5 new cases per million and per year. The current treatment of EBA relies on general immunosuppressive therapy which does not lead to remission in all cases.

Radiation Dermatitis acute skin reaction ranges from a mild rash to severe ulceration. Approximately 85 90 of patients treated with radiation therapy will experience a moderate to severe skin reaction. Acute radiation induced skin reactions often lead to itching and pain delays in treatment and diminished aesthetic appearance and subsequently to a decrease in quality of life. Skin reactions related to radiation therapy usually manifest within 1 4 weeks of radiation start persist for the duration of radiation therapy and may require 2 4 weeks to heal after completion of therapy. The severity of the skin reaction ranges from mild erythema red rash and dry desquamation itchy peeling skin to more severe moist desquamation open wound and ulceration. Treatments that have been assessed for the management of radiation induced skin reactions include topical steroid creams nonsteroidal creams dressings and herbal remedies. Only three trials have showed a significant difference one in favor of a corticosteroid cream one favoring a nonsteroidal cream and one for a dressing. However all three of these trials were small and had limitations thus there is still an unmet medical need.

Late effects of radiation therapy typically months to years post exposure occur at doses greater than a single dose of 20 25 Gy or fractionated doses of 70 Gy or higher. The major underlying histopathological findings at the chronic stage include telangiectasia dense dermal fibrosis round fibrosis sebaceous and sweat gland atrophy loss of hair follicles and with higher doses increased melanin deposition or depigmentation and skin ulcers.

Ramipril was very effective in reducing the late effects of skin injury whereas its mitigating effects on the acute and sub acute injury were modest. However the dose required to mitigate these late effects may be pharmacologically too high to be clinically relevant. More recently it has been shown that significant mitigation of acute skin injury using an adeno associated virus encoding the manganese SOD gene when injected subcutaneously shortly after irradiation. However difficulties in delivery application and cost limit the utility of this treatment strategy.

Alopecia areata AA is a CD8 T cell dependent autoimmune disease of the hair follicle HF in which the collapse of HF immune privilege IP plays a key role. Mast cells MCs are crucial immunomodulatory cells implicated in the regulation of T cell dependent immunity IP and hair growth. Many of these infiltrating immune cells express GzmB suggesting it may be a key mediator in immune cell mediated follicular attack. The peptide substance P was shown to increase the CD8 cells expressing GzmB in the intrafollicular dermis co relating to a regression of follicles into the catagen stage of follicle growth cessation Siebenhaar et al. 2007 127 1489 1497 .

In mice fed a diet with excess vitamin A AA was accelerated and GzmB expressing cells were found in excess surrounding hair follicles including in the isthmus the region of the follicle containing stem cells Duncan et al. 2013 133 334 343 . As GzmB is expressed in the immune cell infiltrate within and surrounding growing follicles it may be a key protease involved in hair loss through autoimmunity apoptosis and ECM degradation.

No drug is currently approved by the US FDA for the treatment of alopecia areata. A number of treatments have been found to be effective using the American College of Physician s criteria for example topical and oral corticosteroids and the sensitizing agents diphenylcyclopropenone and dinitrochlorobenzene. However there is no cure for alopecia areata nor is there any universally proven therapy that induces and sustains remission.

Granzyme B is a serine protease found in cytoplasmic granules of cytotoxic lymphocytes and natural killer cells that plays an important role in inducing apoptotic changes in target cells during granule exocytosis induced cytotoxicity. When Granzyme B is secreted into the cytoplasm of a target cell through the pore formed by perforin it triggers cytotoxic induced cell death Shah et al. 2011 269 16 21 .

Lupus erythematosus LE is a chronic autoimmune multisystem disease that displays many diverse symptoms in which localized cutaneous LE CLE is on one end of the spectrum and severe systemic LE SLE on the other end. CLE is a disfiguring chronic skin disease with a significant impact on the patients everyday life. CLE are further divided into four main subsets Acute CLE ACLE subacute CLE SCLE and chronic CLE CCLE where classic discoid LE DLE is the most common form. There is also a drug induced form of the disease. The disease often has a chronic and relapsing course that can be induced or aggravated by UV light. CLE patients display well defined skin lesions often in sun exposed areas. Discoid LE is the most common subtype of CLE 60 80 is localized above the neck and 20 40 is generalized lesions both above and below the neck . 70 90 of the DLE patients suffer from photosensitivity and sun exposed areas such as the scalp ears and cheeks which are most commonly involved areas. The lesions start as erythematosus maculae or papules with a scaly surface and then grow peripherally into larger discoid plaques that heal with atrophic scar and pigmentary changes. DLE often results in scarring and alopecia. Mutilation with tissue loss can be seen when the lesions affect the ears and tip of the nose. CLE can be managed but so far not cured. Avoidance of trigger factors is of utmost importance such as cessation of smoking and avoidance of sun exposure. The treatment is about the same for the different CLE subsets where first line of treatment is sun protection and local therapy with corticosteroids or calcineurin inhibitors. Antimalarial are the first choice of systemic treatment.

Strong co expression of Granzyme B and the skin homing molecule cutaneous lymphocyte antigen CLA was found in lesional lymphocytes of patients with scarring localized chronic DLE and disseminated chronic DLE which was enhanced compared with nonscarring subacute CLE and healthy controls Wenzel et al. 2005 153 1011 1015 . Wenzel et al. conclude that skin homing cytotoxic Granzyme B positive lymphocytes play an important role in the pathophysiology of scarring chronic DLE and that the potentially autoreactive cytotoxic lymphocytes targeting adnexal structures may lead to scarring lesions in chronic DLE.

Correlation between Granzyme B positive lymphocytes and the presence of CLE was shown by Grassi Grassi et al. 2009 34 910 914 . Granzyme B is an apoptosis immunological mediator that once synthesized and free from activated cytotoxic lymphocytes enters the target cell and starts apoptotic mechanisms involved at different levels in all apoptotic pathways. In CLE apoptosis is characterized by the presence of colloid or Civatte bodies which are evident in the epidermis and papillary dermis of CLE lesions and since Granzyme B is mainly expressed in CLE lesions Grassi et al. conclude that Granzyme B could play a role in the induction of apoptotic mechanisms in CLE.

The expression of Granzyme B and perforin was correlated with clinicopathological features in patients with DLE where both Granzyme B and perform were expressed in DLE with absent expression in normal skin Abdou et al. 2013 Early Online 1 9 . Abdou et al. concluded that cytotoxicity in dermal lymphocytic inflammation was due to expression of both Granzyme B and perforin.

Extracellular Granzymes B is also reported to play a role in DLE by Grassi et al. Further UV light increases Granzyme B expression in keratinocytes as well as mast cells Hernandez Pigeon 2007 282 8157 8164 . As Granzymes B is in abundance at the dermal epidermal junction DEJ where many key extracellular matrix substrates are present for example laminin fibronectin decorin it follows that Granzymes B may also be damaging the DEJ as is observed in DLE. Given its expression in adnexal structures Granzyme B may also be contributing to alopecia as reduced Granzymes B is associated with reduced hair loss in a murine model of skin aging. Similarly reduced extracellular Granzyme B activity is associated with improved collagen organization and reduced scarring in the skin and aorta.

In view of the established connection between Granzyme B and DLE by virtue of their ability to inhibit Granzyme B the compounds of the invention are useful in methods for treating lupus erythematosus LE including severe systemic LE SLE and localized cutaneous LE CLE e.g. acute CLE ACLE subacute CLE SCLE chronic CLE CCLE and the most common form classic discoid LE DLE . In one embodiment the invention provides a method for treating DLE comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of the invention to a subject suffering from DLE.

In the above methods the administration of the Granzyme B inhibitor can be a systemic administration a local administration e.g. administration to the site an inflamed microenvironment an inflamed joint an area of skin a site of a myocardial infarct an eye a neovascularized tumor or a topical administration to a site e.g. a site of inflammation or a wound .

The term subject or patient is intended to include mammalian organisms. Examples of subjects or patients include humans and non human mammals e.g. nonhuman primates dogs cows horses pigs sheep goats cats mice rabbits rats and transgenic non human animals. In specific embodiments of the invention the subject is a human.

The term administering includes any method of delivery of a Granzyme B inhibitor or a pharmaceutical composition comprising a Granzyme B inhibitor into a subject s system or to a particular region in or on a subject. In certain embodiments a moiety is administered topically intravenously intramuscularly subcutaneously intradermally intranasally orally transcutaneously intrathecal intravitreally intracerebral or mucosally.

As used herein the term applying refers to administration of a Granzyme B inhibitor that includes spreading covering at least in part or laying on of the inhibitor. For example a Granzyme B inhibitor may be applied to an area of inflammation on a subject or applied to for example the eye or an area of inflammation by spreading or covering the surface of the eye with an inhibitor by injection oral or nasal administration.

As used herein the term contacting includes contacting a cell or a subject with a Granzyme B inhibitor. Contacting also includes incubating the Granzyme B inhibitor and the cell together in vitro e.g. adding the inhibitor to cells in culture as well as administering the inhibitor to a subject such that the inhibitor and cells or tissues of the subject are contacted in vivo.

As used herein the terms treating or treatment refer to a beneficial or desired result including but not limited to alleviation or amelioration of one or more symptoms diminishing the extent of a disorder stabilized i.e. not worsening state of a disorder amelioration or palliation of the disorder whether detectable or undetectable. Treatment can also mean prolonging survival as compared to expected survival in the absence of treatment.

In further aspects the invention provides cosmetic compositions that include one or more granzyme B inhibitors of the invention and methods for using the compositions to treat reduce and or inhibit the appearance of ageing of the skin.

This aspect of the invention is based in part on the observation that granzyme B expression is induced in keratinocytes and immune cells such as mast cells in the skin during aging. When released by these cells granzyme B cleaves extracellular matrix proteins such as decorin which can result in collagen disorganization. This invention is also based in part on the observation that granzyme B cleaves decorin in addition to other extracellular matrix proteins in the interstitial space surrounding cells.

Skin is comprised of three main layers the epidermis the dermis and subcutaneous layers. Each of these three layers has individual compositions. The functions and structures of these layers are known to a person of skill in the art. The epidermis is the outermost layer of skin and includes both living and dead cell layers. The dermis is the middle layer of skin and is comprised of arrangements of collagen fibers which surround many specialized cells and structures. Hair follicles are found within the dermis and produce the hair shaft which grows out through layers of the dermis and epidermis to become visible as hair. The lowermost layer of the skin is the subcutaneous layer often called the sub dermis. The subcutaneous layer is comprised largely of fat and connective tissue and houses larger blood vessels and nerves. Collagen may be found in all layers of the skin but is most prominently in the dermis layer.

A youthful appearance is achieved by not having at least one of the characteristic signs of age. This is often achieved by being young. Nevertheless there are circumstances in which being young does not confer a youthful appearance as a disease or disorder or other non time related event has conferred the characteristics associated with age. A youthful appearance is often characterized by the condition of the skin and the following skin qualities are typically associated with but not limited to a youthful appearance small pore size healthy skin tone radiance clarity tautness firmness plumpness suppleness elasticity softness healthy skin texture healthy skin contours such as few or no wrinkles shallow wrinkle depth few or no fine lines healthy skin luster and brightness moisturized skin healthy skin thickness and resilient skin. If a skin of a subject comprises any one or more of these characteristics then a youthful appearance is achieved.

The appearance of ageing can occur for a variety of reasons but typically happens at a normal rate associated with the passage of time. A rate of appearance of ageing will be different for different subjects depending on a variety of factors including age gender diet and lifestyle. An appearance of ageing is often characterized by the condition of the skin. Characteristics associated with an appearance of ageing in the skin include but are not limited to skin fragility skin atrophy skin wrinkles fine lines skin discoloration skin sagging skin fatigue skin stress skin inelasticity skin fragility skin softening skin flakiness skin dryness enlarged pore size skin thinning reduced rate of skin cell turnover deep and deepening of skin wrinkles. The rate of appearance of ageing can be measured by measuring the rate at which any one or more of the above characteristics appear. An appearance of ageing may be inhibited reduced or treated by reducing or maintaining a state of any one or more of these skin characteristics.

In many circumstances a reduction in the appearance of ageing of skin occurs when the rate of collagen cleavage exceeds the rate of collagen formation. In many other circumstances a youthful appearance of skin is maintained when the rate of collagen formation is equal to the rate of collagen cleavage. In many other circumstances a reduction in a rate of appearance of ageing of skin is achieved when the rate of decorin cleavage and collagen disorganization and cleavage is slowed such that the rate of collagen fibrillogenesis exceeds the rate of collagen cleavage and the ratio of the rate of collagen fibrillogenesis to the rate of collagen cleavage is greater after application of granzyme B inhibitor compound compared to the ratio before application of the compound. In many other circumstances an extracellular protein other than decorin is also cleaved by granzyme B and the beneficial effects of inhibiting granzyme B can be enhanced beyond what is realized by inhibiting decorin cleavage alone.

In one aspect the invention provides a cosmetic composition. The composition comprises a cosmetically acceptable carrier and one or more compounds of the invention e.g. a compound of Formulae I or II or stereoisomers tautomers and cosmetically acceptable salts thereof as described herein .

As used herein the term cosmetically acceptable salt refers to a salt prepared from a cosmetically acceptable base such as an inorganic base and an organic base or a salt prepared from a cosmetically acceptable acid. Representative salts derived from inorganic bases include aluminum ammonium calcium copper ferric ferrous lithium magnesium manganic manganous ammonium potassium sodium and zinc salts. Representative salts derived from cosmetically acceptable organic bases include salts of primary secondary and tertiary amines substituted amines including naturally occurring substituted amines cyclic amines and basic ion exchange resins such as arginine betaine caffeine choline N N dibenzylethylenediamine diethylamine 2 diethylaminoethanol 2 dimethylaminoethanol ethanolamine ethylenediamine N ethyl morpholine N ethylpiperidine glucamine glucosamine histidine hydrabamine isopropylamine lysine methylglucamine morpholine piperazine piperidine polyamine resins procaine purines theobromine triethylamine trimethylamine tripropylamine and trimethamine.

The cosmetic compositions can be formulated by means known in the art and their mode of administration and the amount of granzyme B inhibitor compound as described herein can be determined by a person of skill in the art. Compositions for use in the methods described herein can comprise one of more of a granzyme B inhibitor compound or a cosmetically acceptable salt thereof as an active ingredient in combination with a cosmetically acceptable carrier.

The cosmetic compositions can include diluents excipients solubilizing agents emulsifying agents and salts known to be useful for cosmetic compositions. Examples of suitable agents include thickeners buffers preservatives surface active agents neutral or cationic lipids lipid complexes liposomes and penetration enhancers. In certain embodiments the cosmetic compositions further include other cosmetic ingredients known in the art.

In certain embodiments the cosmetic composition can include one or more penetration enhancers. Numerous types of penetration enhancers are known such as fatty acids bile salts chelating agents surfactants and non surfactants Lee et al. Critical Reviews in Therapeutic Drug Carrier Systems 8 91 192 1991 Muranishi Critical Reviews in Therapeutic Drug Carrier Systems 7 1 33 1990 . Fatty acids and their derivatives which act as penetration enhancers include for example cabrylic acid oleic acid lauric acid capric acid caprylic acid hexanoic acid myristic acid palmitic acid valeric acid stearic acid linoleic acid linolenic acid arachidonic acid oleic acid elaidic acid erucic acid nervonic acid dicaprate tricaprate recinleate monoolein also known as 1 monooleoyl rac glycerol dilaurin arachidonic acid glyceryll monocaprate 1 dodecylazacycloheptan 2 one acylcarnitines acylcholines mono and di glycerides and physiologically acceptable salts thereof e.g. oleate laurate caprate myristate palmitate stearate linoleate Lee et al. Critical Reviews in Therapeutic Drug Carrier Systems page 92 1991 Muranishi Critical Reviews in Therapeutic Drug Carrier Systems 7 1 1990 El Hariri et al. 44 651 654 1992 .

In certain embodiments the cosmetic composition further includes other cosmetic ingredients known in the art to be useful for cosmetic skincare and or dermatological applications e.g. anti wrinkle active ingredients including flavone glycosides such as alpha glycosylrutin coenzyme Q10 vitamin E and derivatives as well as sunblock ingredients moisturizers and perfumes .

The cosmetic compositions of the invention can be administered for cosmetic or skincare e.g. dermatologic applications either alone or as an additive in combination with other suitable agents or ingredients. As used herein cosmetic and skincare applications includes for example preventive and or restorative applications in connection with dermatological changes in the skin such as for example during pre mature skin aging dryness roughness formation of dryness wrinkles itching reduced re fatting e.g. after washing visible vascular dilations e.g. telangiectases cuperosis flaccidity formation of wrinkles and lines local hyperpigmentation hypopigmentation incorrect pigmentation e.g. age spots increased susceptibility to mechanical stress e.g. cracking skin sagging e.g. lack of firmness and the appearance of dry or rough skin surface features.

The cosmetic compositions of the invention can be formulated for topical administration. Such compositions can be administered topically in any of a variety of forms. Such compositions are suitable in the context of the use described herein for application to the skin or to the surface of the eye. The use of patches corneal shields see U.S. Pat. No. 5 185 152 and ophthalmic solutions see for example U.S. Pat. No. 5 710 182 and ointments is within the skill in the art.

Compositions for topical administration include dermal patches ointments lotions serums creams gels hydrogels pastes foams oils semi solids shampoos soaps drops sprays films liquids and powders. Examples of such compositions include those in which a cosmetically effective amount of a compound of the invention is encapsulated in a vehicle selected from macro capsules micro capsules nano capsules liposomes chylomicrons and microsponges. Another example of such a composition includes absorption of a compound of the invention on or to a material selected from powdered organic polymers talcs bentonites and other mineral supports. A third example of such a composition or formulation includes a mixture of a cosmetically effective amount of a compound of the invention with other ingredients selected from extracted lipids vegetable extracts liposoluble active principles hydrosoluble active principles anhydrous gels emulsifying polymers tensioactive polymers synthetic lipids gelifying polymers tissue extracts marine extracts vitamin A vitamin C vitamin D vitamin E solar filter compositions and antioxidants. Other examples of suitable composition ingredients can be found in US2005 0249720.

In the cosmetic compositions the compounds of the invention can be incorporated into any gelanic form such as oil water emulsions and water oil emulsions milks lotions gelifying and thickening tensioactive and emulsifying polymers pomades lotions capillaries shampoos soaps powders sticks and pencils sprays and body oils.

Regardless of the compound or formulation described herein application administration to a subject as a colloidal dispersion system can be used as a delivery vehicle to enhance the in vivo stability of the compound and or to target the granzyme B inhibitor compound to a particular skin layer tissue or cell type. Colloidal dispersion systems include but are not limited to macromolecule complexes nanocapsules microspheres beads and lipid based systems including oil in water emulsions micelles mixed micelles liposomes and lipid inhibitor complexes of uncharacterized structure. An example of a colloidal dispersion system is a plurality of liposomes. Liposomes are microscopic spheres having an aqueous core surrounded by one or more outer layers made up of lipids arranged in a bilayer configuration see generally Chonn et al. 6 698 708 1995 . Sustained release dosage forms of the compounds described herein can also be used.

The amount of the granzyme B inhibitor compound administered or applied to a subject is not critical except that it should be an amount sufficient to effect improvement of the condition for which the composition is administered applied. Application can be dependent on a number of factors including severity and responsiveness of the condition to be treated and with the course of treatment lasting from several days to several months or until improvement of a condition is effected or a diminution of a symptom is achieved.

A cosmetically effective amount of a granzyme B inhibitor compound includes a cosmetically effective amount or a prophylactically effective amount. A cosmetically effective amount refers to an amount effective at dosages and for periods of time necessary to achieve the desired cosmetic result such as improved skin elasticity skin durability skin firming skin texture decrease the appearance or decrease rate of appearance of aging and the like. A cosmetically effective amount of a compound may vary according to factors such as the skin state age sex and weight of the subject and the ability of the compound to elicit a desired response in the subject. Dosage regimens can be adjusted to provide the optimum cosmetic response. A cosmetically effective amount is also one in which any toxic or detrimental effects of the compound are outweighed by the cosmetically beneficial effects. A prophylactically effective amount refers to an amount effective at dosages and for periods of time necessary to achieve the desired prophylactic result such as improved skin elasticity skin durability skin firming skin texture a decrease appearance or a decrease in the rate of appearance of aging and the like. Typically a prophylactic dose is used in subjects prior to or at an earlier stage of skin deterioration so that a prophylactically effective amount may be less than a cosmetically effective amount.

The amount of granzyme B inhibitor administered applied may vary with the severity of the appearance or rate of appearance of age of the skin. For any particular subject specific dosage regimens may be adjusted over time according to the individual need and the judgment of the person applying or supervising the applying of the compositions. Dosage ranges set forth herein are exemplary only and do not limit the dosage ranges that may be selected. The amount of granzyme B inhibitor compound s in the composition or formulation can vary according to factors such as the skin state age sex and weight of the subject. Dosage regimens can be adjusted to provide the optimum response. For example a single application can be administered applied several divided doses can be administered applied over time or the amount of the composition administered applied can be proportionally reduced or increased as indicated by the exigencies of the situation. It can be advantageous to formulate the granzyme B inhibitor compounds in a composition into a dosage unit form for ease of administration and uniformity of application.

By way of example a granzyme B inhibitor compound of the cosmetic composition can be administered applied to achieve from about 0.01 micrograms per milliliter g mL to about 10 milligrams per milliliter from about 0.1 g mL to about 500 g mL from about 0.1 g mL to about 1500 g mL from about 1 g mL to about 2000 g mL and from about 0.1 g mL to about 5000 g mL including any range within these ranges final concentrations at a target site.

Appropriate dosage values can depend on the characteristics of the site to which the composition is to be applied administered and on the form of the granzyme B inhibitor compound used. Guidance as to particular dosages and methods of delivery is provided in the literature and generally available to practitioners in the art. Those skilled in the art will employ different formulations for different uses and the granzyme B inhibitor compound used. Persons of ordinary skill in the art can easily estimate repetition rates for dosing based on measured residence times and concentrations of the granzyme B inhibitor compound in for example a bodily fluid or a tissue. Following successful treatment it can be desirable to have the subject undergo maintenance therapy to prevent the recurrence of the condition wherein a selected compound is administered applied in maintenance doses applied for example once or more daily to once every few days. In certain embodiments granzyme B inhibitor compounds are administered applied in an amount to achieve ex vivo concentrations from about 1 micromolar to about 10 millimolar from about 10 micromolar to about 5000 micromolar or from about 30 micromolar to about 3000 micromolar and from about 25 micromolar to about 3000 micromolar final concentration over a site of interest and including about 25 micromolar or about 1600 micromolar or about 3000 micromolar final concentration over the site and still more typically between about 1 micromolar to about 1000 micromolar.

Compounds or compositions of granzyme B inhibitors can be administered applied by means of a device or appliance such as an implant graft prosthesis garment of clothing stent and the like. Also implants can be devised which are intended to contain and release such compounds or compositions. An example would be an implant made of a polymeric material adapted to release the compound over a period of time. Such implants can be placed into a garment to be worn by a subject for example a glove shirt mask or hat.

The cosmetic compositions of the invention can be used to inhibit or reduce the appearance of ageing. Ageing is a natural phenomenon that cannot be reversed per se but the appearance of ageing such as skin deterioration including but not limited to skin inelasticity skin fragility skin softening skin flakiness skin dryness enlarged pore size skin thinning reduced rate of skin cell turnover skin wrinkling deepening of skin wrinkles skin sagging fine lines and skin discoloration may be inhibited or reduced.

The cosmetic compositions can be used to increase or decrease a rate of increasing or a rate of decreasing occurrences of a particular skin characteristic. In other words the composition when applied to the skin or a portion of the skin of a subject delays the onset of an appearance of aging. For example in a population of subjects where half of the population applies a granzyme B inhibitor to their skin and another half of the population does not apply a granzyme B inhibitor to their skin the half which applied a granzyme B inhibitor would not appear as aged as the half which did not apply the granzyme B inhibitor after a period of time had elapsed. The half of the population which applied a granzyme B inhibitor to the skin would also have maintained a youthful appearance.

The rate at which a particular subject experiences a change in the rate of appearance of a particular skin characteristic i.e. an increasing or decreasing rate of the appearance of a particular skin characteristic will depend on a variety of factors including but not limited to age weight sex and lifestyle of the subject. As such rates are not necessarily constant but a normal rate of increase or of decrease of an appearance of a characteristic defined as being the new occurrence of a particular characteristic over a predetermined period of time under a set of conditions that do not include the presence of a granzyme B inhibitor applied by a method or use of this invention is increased or decreased by applying a granzyme B inhibitor in accordance with a method or use of this invention. Methods of measuring skin characteristics rates of increasing appearance of skin characteristics and rates of decreasing appearance of skin characteristics are known to a person of skill in the art see for example by Agache et al. Springer 2004 .

Surprisingly granzyme B inhibitors can also be used to increase the density of hair follicles of a skin of a subject and may be used to reduce the occurrences of cutaneous xanthomas of a skin of a subject. Actively growing hair follicles contain melanocytes that transfer pigment to matrix keratinocytes imparting color to hair. Additionally sebum produced in sebaceous glands is often secreted via hair follicles. Increased density of hair follicles results in increased pigment production and increased sebum secretion resulting in improved hair appearance e.g. hair that is less grey in color or not grey at all as well as healthier hair and skin. Granzyme B inhibitors also cause hair follicles to appear deeper in the skin which provide stronger hair that is less susceptible to mechanical damage. Additionally a characteristic sign of ageing is the reduction in hair follicle density. It is known in the art that age and follicular miniaturization are weak predictors of total hair count see Chapman et al. 152 646 649 2005 . Consequently the characteristic sign of age associated with hair follicle density is not predictive of hair density.

The cosmetic composition may be applied to a portion of the skin of a subject or to the whole of the skin of the subject. For example the composition may be applied to the skin only on the face only on the scalp on the whole head or to each part of the body.

Representative compounds of the invention were prepared according to Methods A to F as described below and illustrated in .

It will be appreciated that in the following general methods and preparation of synthetic intermediates reagent levels and relative amounts or reagents intermediates can be changed to suit particular compounds to be synthesized up or down by up to 50 without significant change in expected results.

HCl Solution in dioxane 4M 5 ml was added to respective carbamate compound 0.125 mmol and stirred for 2 hrs at RT. The reaction mixture was concentrated to dryness under vacuum and swapped with MeOH 5 ml three times. The resulting residue was dried well under vacuum and subjected to next reaction as it was. The residue obtained above respective acid moiety 0.125 mmol EDC 0.19 mmol HOBt 0.16 mmol and DIPEA 0.5 mmol were stirred in anhydrous DCM 5 ml for 16 hrs. The reaction mixture was concentrated under vacuum to give the crude product which was purified on a C18 column using 10 50 MeOH in water to yield product as an off white solid 35 55 .

The above scheme and following description illustrates is representative method utilizing an azaindoline P2 component.

HCl Solution in dioxane 4M 5 ml was added to a representative Boc protected compound 0.125 mmol and stirred for 2 hrs at RT. The reaction mixture was concentrated to dryness under vacuum and washed with MeOH 5 ml three times. Resulting residue was dried well under vacuum and subjected to next reaction as it is. The residue obtained above the respective anhydride moiety 0.125 mmol and triethylamine 0.5 mmol were added to anhydrous DCM 5 mL and stirred for 16 hrs. The mixture was concentrated under vacuum to give the crude product which was purified on a C18 column using 10 50 MeOH in water to yield product as an off white solid 40 60 .

The above scheme and following description illustrates is representative method utilizing an azaindoline P2 component.

The respective acid moiety 0.125 mmol HATU 0.17 mmol DIPEA 0.5 mmol and respective amine moiety 0.125 mmol were stirred in anhydrous DCM 5 ml for 16 hrs. The reaction mixture was concentrated under vacuum to give the crude product which was purified on a C18 column using 10 50 MeOH in water or similar ratio as needed to yield product as an off white solid 35 55 .

The above scheme and following description illustrates is representative method utilizing an azaindoline P2 component.

To the stirring solution of the ester compound 0.08 mmol in ethanol 1 ml was added solution of lithium hydroxide monohydrate 0.4 mmol in water 0.5 ml . After stirring the reaction mixture for 5 hrs at RT the mixture was acidified using citric acid saturated solution and concentrated under vacuum to give the crude product which was purified on a C18 column using 10 40 MeOH in water to yield product as an off white solid 50 65 .

HCl Solution in dioxane 4M 0.5 ml was added to the respective carbamate compound 0.06 mmol and stirred for 3 hrs at RT. The reaction mixture was concentrated under vacuum to give the crude product which was purified on a C18 column using 10 40 MeOH in water to yield product as an off white solid 50 60 .

To a flask containing the respective benzylated compound 1.0 eq. under a nitrogen atmosphere was added palladium on carbon 10 wt wetted 0.2 eq. then MeOH 0.05 M . The atmosphere was changed to hydrogen vacuum Hbackfill 3 and the suspension of black solids was stirred for 3 hrs then filtered over a pad of CELITE and washed with excess MeOH. The reaction mixture was concentrated under vacuum to give the crude product which was purified on a C18 column using 10 50 MeOH in water to yield the product 50 95 .

The following is a description of synthetic intermediates I 1 to I 10 useful for making representative compounds of the invention.

 2S 2 3 dihydro 1H indole 2 carboxylic acid 500 mg 306 mmol was suspended in EtOH 5 mL at 0 C. and thionyl chloride 0.45 mL 6.13 mmol 2 eq. was added. The resulting clear mixture was allowed to come to RT and stirred for 16 hours. The reaction mixture was then concentrated to dryness and swapped with EtOH 2 10 mL . The solid obtained was dried well under reduced pressure to give ethyl 2S 2 3 dihydro 1H indole 2 carboxylate hydrochloride as a light brown solid 0.58 g quantitative . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d6 1.18 3H s 3.10 3.18 1H m 3.30 3.40 1H m 4.05 4.17 2H m 4.55 1H bs 6.80 2H bs 7.02 7.08 2H m 7.7 2H bs . Compound was used further as described.

I 1 was prepared from ethyl 2S 2 3 dihydro 1H indole 2 carboxylate hydrochloride and 2 tert butoxycarbonyl amino acetic acid using method C however the purification was performed on normal phase using 0 to 50 ethyl acetate in hexanes as the eluent. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d6 1.18 3H t J 6 Hz 1.38 9H s 3.19 1H d J 16 Hz 3.48 3.62 2H m 3.95 4.20 3H m 5.35 1H d J 11 Hz 7.00 2H t J 8 Hz 7.15 7.25 2H m 8.01 1H d J 8 Hz MS LC MS m z 370.95 M Na 

 2S Ethyl 1 2 2S 3S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl amino 3 methylpentanamido acetyl indoline 2 carboxylate was prepared from I 1 and Boc L isoleucine using method A. MS LC MS m z observed 461.98 expected 462.26 M H . Compound was confirmed using LC MS and moved to next step as it was.

 2S 1 2 2S 3S 2 tert Butoxycarbonylamino 3 methyl pentanoylamino acetyl 2 3 dihydro 1H indole 2 carboxylic acid I 2 was prepared from 2S 1 2 2S 3S 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 3 methyl pentanoylamino acetyl 2 3 dihydro 1H indole 2 carboxylic acid ethyl ester using method D with 2 eq. of LiOH HO. MS LC MS m z observed 433.96 expected 434.23 M H . Compound was confirmed using LC MS and moved to next step as it was.

I 3 was prepared from Boc L Isoleucine and Glycine ethyl ester hydrochloride using method A but the purification was performed on normal phase using 0 to 30 ethyl acetate in hexanes as the eluent. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 0.91 3H t J 7 Hz 0.96 3H d J 7 Hz 1.14 1H m 1.28 3H t J 7 Hz 1.45 9H s 1.51 1H m 1.92 1H m 3.95 4.12 3H m 4.22 2H q J 7 Hz 5.55 1H d J 9 Hz 6.52 1H bs MS LC MS m z observed 317.42 expected 317.21 M H .

This intermediate was generated by a modified procedure based on that disclosed in Rebek J. et al. 107 7487 1985 . A three neck round bottom flask with a stir bar was flame dried cooled under vacuum and purged with N. To the flask were added 2 bromo 3 methylpyridine 5.2 mL 29.1 mmol N bromosuccinimide 5.5 g 32.0 mmol and degassed benzene 126 mL . The flask was fitted with a condenser heated to 40 C. and AIBN 0.24 g 1.5 mmol was added in several portions. The reaction was irradiated using a sun lamp as it was stirred at 40 C. The reaction was monitored using TLC and HPLC and was stopped after 80 conversion of the pyridine reagent approximately 8 hrs . The reaction was concentrated under reduced pressure then redissolved in DCM EtOAc 120 mL 4 1 v v and extracted once with 50 mL of NaHCO sat d aqueous water and brine. The organic phase was dried over anhydrous sodium sulphate filtered and concentrated. Upon standing the residue could not be fully redissolved in DCM and the resultant suspension was filtered to remove the insoluble solid. The filtrate was concentrated to near dryness and the residue was purified by normal phase flash chromatography EtOAc Hexanes to give the title compound 1 4 3.0 g 11.9 mmol 41 as a yellow solid. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.33 1H dd J 5.2 Hz 7.78 1H dd J 7.2 Hz 7.28 1H dd J 5.4 Hz 4.57 2H s MS LC MS m z observed 249.97 expected 249.89 M H 

This intermediate was generated by a generic procedure based on that disclosed in US2010 0189644 and O Donnell 37 506 2004 . A round bottom flask was charged with a stir bar diphenylmethanimine 8.6 g 47.5 mmol tert butyl 2 bromoacetate 9.3 g 47.5 mmol and acetonitrile 40 mL . The reaction was heated to 70 C. and DIPEA 8.3 mL 47.5 mmol was added slowly. The flask was fitted with a reflux condenser and heated at 70 C. for 16 hrs. Analysis of the reaction by HPLC and TLC showed complete conversion of the reactants and the reaction was cooled to room temperature. A solution of 5 3 water formic acid 1 mL was added the reaction was concentrated under reduced pressure. The resultant solid was filtered and washed 2 60 mL of a cold solution of water ethanol 3 3 v v and once with 30 mL of a cold solution of water ethanol 1 1 v v . The solid was dried under high vacuum to give tert butyl 2 diphenylmethylene amino acetate I 5 as a white solid 14.9 g 47.0 mmol 99 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.66 2H m 7.47 3H m 7.41 1H t J 8 Hz 7.34 1H t J 8 Hz 7.20 2H m 4.13 2H s 1.48 9H s MS LC MS m z observed 295.93 expected 296.16 M H .

This intermediate was generated by a procedure based on that disclosed in Corey E. J. et al. 119 12414 1997 . A round bottom flask was charged with a stir bar quinolin 4 yl 1S 2S 4S 5R 5 vinylquinuclidin 2 yl methanol 1.5 g 5.10 mmol also known as cinchonine 9 chloromethyl anthracene 1.21 g 5.35 mmol and toluene 15 mL . The flask was fitted with a condenser and heated for 2 hrs at 110 C. Conversion of the amine was confirmed by LCMS and the reaction was cooled to room temperature and poured into 100 mL of diethyl ether. The formed yellow precipitate was filtered and washed with 2 10 mL of cold DCM. The solid was set aside and the filtrate was concentrated and suspended overnight in 10 EtO DCM at 0 C. The cold suspension was filtered. The solids were pooled together and dried on high vacuum to give the title compound 1S 2S 4S 5R 1 anthracen 9 ylmethyl 2 hydroxy quinolin 4 yl methyl 5 vinylquinuclidin 1 ium chloride 1 6 as a bright yellow solid 2.6 g 5.0 mmol 98 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 9.06 1H d J 8 Hz 8.84 2H d J 4 Hz 8.73 1H d J 8 Hz 8.20 1H d J 4 Hz 8.03 1H d J 4 Hz 7.99 1H s 7.70 7.55 3H m 7.40 1H d J 8 Hz 7.30 7.15 6H m 7.15 7.05 2H m 6.83 1H t J 14 Hz 6.68 1H t J 14 Hz 5.44 1H m 4.91 1H dd J 10.4 Hz 4.74 2H m 6.83 1H d J 14 Hz 6.68 1H d J 14 Hz 5.44 1H m 5.27 1H d J 16 Hz 6.68 1H dd J 8.3 Hz 4.74 2H m 2.59 1H dd J 14.12 Hz 2.42 1H m 2.36 2H s 2.13 1H m 1.90 1.75 3H m 1.70 1H m 2.42 1H m 1.12 1H m 1.01 1H m MS LC MS m z observed 485.08 expected 485.26 M Cl .

This catalyst was generated by a procedure based on that disclosed in Corey E. J. et al. 119 12414 1997 . A round bottom flask with a stir bar was flame dried cooled under vacuum and purged with N. To the flask were added 1 6 1.0 g 1.92 mmol allyl bromide 0.5 mL 5.76 mmol and DCM 8 mL . To the yellow foamy mixture was added a solution of 50 w w KOH 2 mL 9.60 mmol at RT. A slight exotherm was observed. Analysis of the reaction by HPLC after 4 hrs showed complete conversion of I 6 and the reaction was diluted with 30 mL of DCM and water and transferred to a separatory funnel. The organic phase was collected then extracted 2 20 mL of water and washed with NaCl sat d aqueous . The organic phase was dried over anhydrous sodium sulphate filtered and concentrated. To the residue was added 8 mL of methanol which produced a clear red solution with a small amount of precipitate. Diethyl ether was slowly added to the solution at 0 C. and the solution became cloudy. After the addition of 50 mL of ether the precipitate was filtered washed once with cold ether 10 mL and dried under high vacuum to give the title compound 1S 2S 4S 5R 2 allyloxy quinolin 4 yl methyl 1 anthracen 9 ylmethyl 5 vinylquinuclidin 1 ium bromide 1 7 0.63 g 1.03 mmol 54 . MS LC MS m z observed 525.08 expected 525.29 M H . Compound was confirmed using LC MS and moved to next step as it was.

This intermediate was generated by a modified procedure based on that disclosed in Viswanathan R. et al. 125 163 2003 and 2 330 2005 . A three neck round bottom flask with a stir bar was charged with 1 5 40.1 g 135.7 mmol 1 7 8.2 g 13.6 mmol powdered KOH 69.1 g 1221.4 mmol and DCM 600 mL . The opaque yellow suspension was cooled to 78 C. and the flask fitted with a dropping funnel. A suspension of I 4 152.0 g 610.7 mmol in 400 mL DCM was transferred to the dropping funnel and added to the reaction at 78 C. over about 1 hr. The suspension in the dropping funnel would occasionally settle and the solid would be resuspended. After the end of the addition the funnel was rinsed with an additional 200 mL of DCM and the rinse was added to the reaction. After 10 hrs at 78 C. the reaction was allowed to stir overnight as it warmed to room temperature. Analysis of the reaction by HPLC and TLC showed complete conversion of I 4. The reaction was diluted with 3 L of DCM transferred to a 15 L reactor and extracted 2 1 L of water. During the separation the organic phase appeared cloudy due to a solid formed from I 4. The organic phase was collected then washed with NaCl sat d aqueous dried over anhydrous sodium sulphate filtered and concentrated to near dryness and purified by normal phase flash chromatography. A three solvent mobile phase was used for the separation initially DCM hexanes to elute the excess I 4 followed by EtOAc Hexanes to elute the title compound S tert butyl 3 2 bromopyridin 3 yl 2 diphenylmethylene amino propanoate 1 8 obtained as a yellow solid 23.1 g 226.0 mmol 37 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.20 1H dd J 4.2 Hz 7.60 2H d J 8 Hz 7.56 1H dd J 4.2 Hz 7.45 7.25 6H m 7.12 1H dd J 8.4 Hz 6.67 1H d J d Hz 4.39 1H dd J 8.4 Hz 3.39 1H dd J 12.4 Hz 3.21 1H dd J 12.4 Hz 1.46 9H s MS LC MS m z observed 464.87 expected 465.12 M H .

This intermediate was generated by a modified procedure based on that disclosed in Viswanathan R. et al. 125 163 2003 and 2 330 2005 . A three neck round bottom flask with a stir bar was flame dried cooled under vacuum and purged with N. To the flask were added 1 8 3.0 g 6.46 mmol tri n butyltin hydride 3.8 mL 14.2 mmol and degassed toluene 646 mL . The flask was fitted with a condenser and a dropping funnel and heated to 85 C. A solution of AIBN 1.27 g 7.8 mmol in 40 mL toluene was prepared in the dropping funnel and added to the reaction over the course of 1 hr. After 2 hrs the reaction was monitored by LC MS and approximately 50 conversion. Another portion of tri n butyltin hydride was added and the reaction was heated at 85 C. for another 4 hrs. Analysis of the reaction by TLC HPLC and LC MS showed complete conversion of I 8. The reaction was concentrated to near dryness and to the residue was added 250 mL of diethyl ether and 100 mL of a KF sat d aqueous . The biphasic mixture was stirred vigorously at room temperature for 3 hrs during with time a white solid formed at the interface and on the flask wall. The mixture was filtered through CELITE and the cake washed with 200 mL of diethyl ether. The filtrate was transferred to a separatory funnel the organic phase was collected dried over anhydrous sodium sulphate filtered and concentrated to near dryness. The residue was purified by normal phase flash chromatography EtOAc Hexanes to give the title compound 1 9 as an off white solid 1.37 g 3.5 mmol 55 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.87 1H d J 4 Hz 7.41 2H d J 8 Hz 7.35 7.15 8H m 6.55 6.45 2H m 4.21 1H dd J 10.6 Hz 3.43 1H dd J 18.10 Hz 3.21 1H dd J 18.6 Hz 1.73 9H s MS LC MS m z observed 487.04 expected 487.21 M H .

This intermediate was generated by a modified procedure based on that disclosed in Viswanathan R. et al. 125 163 2003 and 2 330 2005 . A round bottom flask was charged with 1 9 670 mg 1.7 mmol DCM 5 mL and triethylsilane 1 mL 8.65 mmol . To the clear yellow solution was added TFA 3.3 mL at room temperature and the yellow orange reaction was stirred at room temperature for 16 hrs. Analysis of the reaction by HPLC showed complete conversion of I 9 and the reaction was concentrated to approximately one quarter of the volume. Diethyl ether 60 mL was added slowly to the residue which resulted in the precipitation of a fine white solid. The mixture was cooled to 0 C. for 10 min then sonicated and filtered. The white solid was washed with 10 mL of cold diethyl ether to give 2S 2 carboxy 2 3 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 b pyridin 1 ium trifluoroacetate I 10 263 mg 0.93 mmol 54 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 8.52 1H bs 7.69 1H d J 4 Hz 7.55 1H d J 4 Hz 6.68 2H dd J 8.4 Hz 4.59 1H dd J 12.4 Hz 3.45 1H dd J 16.12 Hz 3.15 1H dd J 20.4 Hz MS LC MS m z observed 165.02 expected 165.07 M C1 .

The following is a description of the preparation of representative Granzyme B inhibitor compounds of the invention.

A solution of DMSO 0.52 mL 7.27 mmol in DCM 20 ml was cooled to 78 C. To this solution was added oxalyl chloride 0.3 ml 3.63 mmol and stirred for 20 min. at 78 C. Solution of S tert butyl 3 tert butoxycarbonyl amino 4 hydroxybutanoate 0.5 gm 1.82 mmol in DCM 8 ml was added and stirred for 30 min. at 78 C. Solution of triethylamine 1.2 mL 8.72 mmol in DCM 5 ml was added and stirred for 10 min. at 78 C. Diethyl ether 40 ml was added and the reaction mixture warmed to RT. The resulting reaction mixture washed with sodium bisulfate sat d aqueous and with brine. Separated organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Flash chromatography EtOAc Hexane 0 30 afforded S tert butyl 3 tert butoxycarbonyl amino 4 oxobutanoate 0.4 g 79.5 as a pale yellow oil. H NMR 400 MHz Chloroform d 1.44 9H s 1.47 9H s 2.71 2.77 1H dd J 16 4 Hz 2.89 2.94 1H dd J 16 4 Hz 4.31 4.35 1H m 5.59 5.61 1H d J 8 Hz 9.65 1H s .

HCl solution in dioxane 4 M 4 ml was added to S tert butyl 3 tert butoxycarbonyl amino 4 oxobutanoate 0.20 g 0.7326 mmol and stirred for 2 hrs at RT. EtOH 4 ml was added and the reaction mixture stirred further for 1 hr. The reaction mixture was concentrated to dryness under vacuum and swapped with EtOH 4 ml three times. The resulting residue was dried well under vacuum and subjected to next reaction as it is. The residue obtained above 1 2 0.32 gm 0.7326 mmol EDC 0.24 gm 1.25 mmol HOBt 0.17 gm 1.1 mmol and DIPEA 0.51 ml 2.9 mmol were all stirred in anhydrous DMF 15 ml for 16 hrs. The reaction mixture was concentrated under vacuum to give the crude product which was purified on a C18 column using 10 50 MeOH in water to yield 3 S 1 2 S 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 3 S methyl pentanoylamino acetyl 2 3 dihydro 1H indole 2 S carbonyl amino 4 oxo butyric acid tert butyl ester as an off white solid 0.13 g 30 . MS LC MS m z observed 589.08 expected 589.32 M H . Compound was confirmed using LC MS and moved to next step as it was.

3 S 1 2 2 S 3 Carboxy propionylamino 3 S methyl pentanoylamino acetyl 2 3 dihydro 1H indole 2 S carbonyl amino 4 oxo butyric acid tert butyl ester was prepared from 3 S 1 2 S 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 3 S methyl pentanoylamino acetyl 2 3 dihydro 1H indole 2 S carbonyl amino 4 oxo butyric acid tert butyl ester and succinic anhydride using method B. MS LC MS m z observed 589.14 expected 589.65 M H . Compound was confirmed using LC MS and moved to next step as is.

A solution of compound 3 S 1 2 S 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 3 S methyl pentanoylamino acetyl 2 3 dihydro 1H indole 2 S carbonyl amino 4 oxo butyric acid tert butyl ester 0.07 g 0.119 mmol in DCM 2 ml was cooled to 0 C. To this solution was added TFA 2 ml . Reaction mixture was warmed to RT and stirred for 30 min. The reaction mixture was concentrated to dryness and dried well under vacuum and subjected to next reaction as it was. The residue obtained above was dissolved in EtOH 1 ml and solution of LiOH HO 0.05 gm 1.19 mmol in water 0.5 ml was added and stirred for 1 hr. The reaction mixture was concentrated under vacuum to give the crude product which was purified on a C18 column using 10 60 MeOH in water to yield title compound S 3 1 2 2S 3S 2 3 carboxypropanamido 3 methylpentanamido acetyl 2 3 dihydro 1H indol 2 yl formamido 4 oxobutanoic acid C1 as an off white solid 0.02 g 32 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d6 0.80 0.84 3H t J 8 Hz 0.86 0.88 3H d J 8 Hz 1.08 1.15 1H m 1.43 1.49 1H m 1.72 1.78 1H m 2.37 2.46 4H m 3.06 3.10 2H d J 16 Hz 3.57 3.64 2H m 4.06 4.14 2H t J 16 Hz 4.23 4.28 2H m 5.09 5.14 1H m 6.99 7.03 1H t J 8 Hz 7.16 7.24 2H m 7.90 7.93 1H d J 12 Hz 8.03 8.05 1H d J 8 Hz 8.17 1H s 8.89 1H bs 12.17 2H bs MS LC MS m z observed 532.98 expected 533.22 M H .

I 1 368 mg 1.058 mmol was dissolved in a HCl in dioxane solution 4 M 15 mL at RT and was left under stirring for 2 hrs. The reaction mixture was then concentrated to dryness and swapped with EtOH 2 10 mL . The solid obtained was dried well under vacuum to get a brown solid 300 mg quantitative which was suspended in anhydrous DCM 10 mL . DIPEA 551 mL 3.162 mmol was then added and the solution became clear. Acetyl chloride 71 mL 1.58 mmol was then added slowly to the reaction mixture at RT which was stirred for 10 minutes and then quenched with MeOH 1 mL . The solvent was then evaporated to dryness and the residue was hydrolyzed following method D to give S 1 2 acetamidoacetyl indoline 2 carboxylic acid as an off white solid 275 mg quantitative . MS LC MS m z observed 262.89 expected 263.27 M H . Compound was confirmed using LC MS and moved to next step as it was.

 S tert Butyl 3 tert butoxycarbonyl amino 4 oxobutanoate 1.73 g 2.12 mmol was dissolved in HCl in dioxane 4M 25 mL at RT and the reaction was left under stirring for 3 hrs. EtOH 10 mL was then added to the reaction mixture which was stirred at RT for 2 additional hrs. The reaction mixture was then concentrated and swapped with EtOH 10 mL twice to yield a mixture of 4 ethoxy 1 4 dioxobutan 2 aminium chloride aldehyde and 1 4 diethoxy 4 oxobut 1 en 2 aminium chloride enol ether as an orange oil 1.14 g quantitative . MS LC MS m z observed 146.00 expected 146.08 M H for the aldehyde and m z observed 174.05 expected 174.22 M H for the enol ether. The mixture was confirmed using LC MS and moved to next step as they were.

The mixture S 3 1 2 acetylamino acetyl 2 3 dihydro 1H indole 2 carbonyl amino 4 oxo butyric acid ethyl ester and S 3 1 2 acetylamino acetyl 2 3 dihydro 1H indole 2 carbonyl amino 4 ethoxy but 3 enoic acid ethyl ester was prepared from S 1 2 acetamidoacetyl indoline 2 carboxylic acid and the mixture of 4 ethoxy 1 4 dioxobutan 2 aminium chloride and 1 4 diethoxy 4 oxobut 1 en 2 aminium chloride using method A in DMF but without HCl treatment. This gave the mixture S 3 1 2 acetylamino acetyl 2 3 dihydro 1H indole 2 carbonyl amino 4 oxo butyric acid ethyl ester aldehyde and S 3 1 2 acetylamino acetyl 2 3 dihydro 1H indole 2 carbonyl amino 4 ethoxy but 3 enoic acid ethyl ester enol ether as a yellow oil. MS LC MS m z observed 389.95 expected 390.17 M H for the aldehyde and m z observed 418.03 expected 418.20 M H for the enol ether. The mixture was confirmed using LC MS and moved to next step as it was.

The mixture of S 3 1 2 acetylamino acetyl 2 3 dihydro 1H indole 2 carbonyl amino 4 oxo butyric acid ethyl ester and S 3 1 2 acetylamino acetyl 2 3 dihydro 1H indole 2 carbonyl amino 4 ethoxy but 3 enoic acid ethyl ester 180 mg was dissolved in DCM 5 mL and cooled to 0 C. TFA 5 mL was then added and the reaction was stirred at 0 C. for 5 minutes and then allowed to warm up to RT and stirred for an additional two hrs. All enol ether was converted to the aldehyde. The reaction mixture was then concentrated and the residue was dissolved in dioxane 10 mL and lithium hydroxide 0.5 M aqueous was added until a pH of 7 was seen by pH paper. The reaction was left for 15 minutes and then acidified with citric acid sat d aqueous to pH 4. The solvents were then evaporated and the product was purified on a C18 column using 15 30 MeOH in water to yield title compound 3 2S 1 2 acetamidoacetyl 2 3 dihydro 1H indol 2 yl formamido 4 oxobutanoic acid C2 as an off white solid 89 mg 57 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d6 1.89 3H s 2.80 3.12 2H m 3.35 1H m 3.51 3.68 2H m 4.05 4.28 2H m 5.10 1H m 7.01 1H t J 7 Hz 7.14 7 26 2H m 8.03 1H d J 8 Hz 8.18 1H bs 8.90 1H bs MS LC MS m z observed 361.93 expected 362.14 M H 

I 2 300 mg 0.65 mmol was dissolved in a HCl in dioxane solution 4 M 15 mL at RT and was left under stirring for 2 hrs. The reaction mixture was then concentrated to dryness and swapped with EtOH 2 10 mL . The solid obtained was dried well under vacuum to get a brown solid 258.6 mg quantitative which was suspended in anhydrous DCM 10 mL . DIPEA 339 mL 1.95 mmol was then added and the solution became clear. Acetyl chloride 69 mL 0.975 mmol was then added slowly to the reaction mixture at RT which was stirred for 10 minutes and then quenched with MeOH 1 mL . The solvent was then evaporated to dryness and the residue was hydrolyzed following method D to give S 1 2 2S 3S 2 acetamido 3 methylpentanamido acetyl indoline 2 carboxylic acid as an off white solid 244 mg quantitative . MS LC MS m z observed 375.97 expected 376.19 M H . Compound was confirmed using LC MS and moved to next step as it was.

The mixture of S 3 1 2 2S 3S 2 acetylamino 3 methyl pentanoylamino acetyl 2 3 dihydro 1H indole 2 carbonyl amino 4 oxo butyric acid ethyl ester and S 3 1 2 2S 3S 2 acetylamino 3 methyl pentanoylamino acetyl 2 3 dihydro 1H indole 2 carbonyl amino 4 ethoxy but 3 enoic acid ethyl ester was prepared from S 1 2 2S 3S 2 acetamido 3 methylpentanamido acetyl indoline 2 carboxylic acid and the mixture 4 ethoxy 1 4 dioxobutan 2 aminium chloride and 1 4 diethoxy 4 oxobut 1 en 2 aminium chloride from Example C2 using method A in DMF but without HCl treatment. This gave a mixture as a yellow solid. MS LC MS m z observed 502.94 expected 503.25 M H for the aldehyde and m z observed 531.08 expected 531.28 M H for the enol ether. Compounds were confirmed using LC MS and moved to next step as they were.

The mixture S 3 1 2 2S 3S 2 acetylamino 3 methyl pentanoylamino acetyl 2 3 dihydro 1H indole 2 carbonyl amino 4 oxo butyric acid ethyl ester and S 3 1 2 2S 3S 2 acetylamino 3 methyl pentanoylamino acetyl 2 3 dihydro 1H indole 2 carbonyl amino 4 ethoxy but 3 enoic acid ethyl ester 164 mg was dissolved in DCM 5 mL and cooled to 0 C. TFA 5 mL was then added and the reaction was stirred at 0 C. for 5 minutes and then allowed to warm up to RT and stirred for an additional two hrs. All enol ether was converted to the aldehyde. The reaction mixture was then concentrated and the residue was dissolved in dioxane 10 mL and lithium hydroxide 0.5 M aqueous was added until a pH of 11 was seen by pH paper. The reaction was left for 15 minutes and then acidified with citric acid sat d aqueous to pH 4. The solvents were then evaporated and the product was purified on a C18 column using 15 50 MeOH in water to yield S 3 1 2 S 2S 3S 2 acetamido 3 methylpentanamido acetyl 2 3 dihydro 1H indol 2 yl formamido 4 oxobutanoic acid C3 as an off white solid 39 mg 26 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d6 0.81 3H t J 7.4 Hz 0.87 3H d J 7 Hz 1.06 1.16 1H m 1.45 1H m 1.72 1H m 1.87 3H s 2.90 3.13 2H m 3.35 1H m 3.51 3.68 2H m 4.05 4.20 2H m 4.25 1H m 5.11 1H m 7.01 1H t J 7 Hz 7.14 7.26 2H m 7.92 1H d J 8 Hz 8.03 1H d J 8 Hz 8.25 1H m 8.90 1H bs MS LC MS m z observed 474.91 expected 475.22 M H .

Ethyl 2 2S 3S 2 2 1H tetrazol 5 yl acetamido 3 methylpentanamido acetate 620 mg 1.64 mmol 57 was collected as an off white solid from I 3 0.91 g 2.88 mmol and 2 2H tetrazol 5 yl acetic 307 mg 2.4 mmol using method A in DMF. MS LC MS m z observed 326.86 expected 327.18 M H . Compound structure was confirmed using LC MS and moved to next step as it was.

A round bottom flask was charged with a stir bar Ethyl 2 2S 3S 2 2 1H tetrazol 5 yl acetamido 3 methylpentanamido acetate 290 mg 0.89 mmol LiOH 94 mg 2.23 mmol BuOH 6.6 ml and water 3.3 mL . The reaction was stirred at RT for 2 hrs. Analysis of the reaction by LC MS showed complete conversion and HCl concentrated aqueous was added to reach pH 2. The reaction was concentrated under reduced pressure and reconcentrated from BuOH. 2 2S 3S 2 2 1H Tetrazol 5 yl acetamido 3 methylpentanamido acetic acid was collected as an off white solid. MS LC MS m z observed 298.89 expected 299.15 M H . Compound was confirmed using LC MS and moved to next step as it was.

 S 1 2 2S 3S 2 2 1H Tetrazol 5 yl acetamido 3 methylpentanamido acetyl 2 3 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 b pyridine 2 carboxylic acid 129 mg 0.29 mmol 46 was prepared from I 10 176 mg 0.63 mmol via method C with 3 eq. 1.9 mmol of 2 2S 3S 2 2 1H tetrazol 5 yl acetamido 3 methylpentanamido acetic acid. MS LC MS m z observed 444.94 expected 445.19 M H . Compound was confirmed using LC MS and moved to next step as it was.

A round bottom flask was charged with a stir bar S tert butyl 3 tert butoxycarbonyl amino 4 oxobutanoate 303 mg 1.11 mmol from Example C1 and HCl in dioxane 4 M 4 mL . The reaction was stirred at room temperature for 1 hr then concentrated to near dryness. Another aliquot of HCl in dioxane 4 M 2 mL were added followed by allyl alcohol 1 mL . The reaction was stirred for 40 min at room temperature at which time the reaction changed from cloudy to clear. Analysis of the reaction by LC MS showed complete conversion and the reaction was concentrated to dryness and reconcentrated twice from diethyl ether. The remaining solid contained the E 1 4 bis allyloxy 4 oxobut 1 en 2 aminium 2 2 2 trifluoroacetate in quantitative yield. MS LC MS m z observed 197.96 expected 198.11 M C1 . Compound was confirmed using LC MS and moved to next step as it was.

4 Allyloxy 3 1 2 S 3 S methyl 2 2 2H tetrazol 5 yl acetylamino pentanoylamino acetyl 2 3 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 b pyridine 2 S carbonyl amino but 3 enoic acid allyl ester 15 mg 0.03 mmol 10 was prepared from S 1 2 2S 3S 2 2 2H tetrazol 5 yl acetamido 3 methylpentanamido acetyl 2 3 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 b pyridine 2 carboxylic acid 129 mg 0.29 mmol via method A without HCl treatment and with 3 eq. 0.87 mmol of E 1 4 bis allyloxy 4 oxobut 1 en 2 aminium 2 2 2 trifluoroacetate. 4 Allyloxy 3 1 2 S 3 S methyl 2 2 2H tetrazol 5 yl acetylamino pentanoylamino acetyl 2 3 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 b pyridine 2 S carbonyl amino but 3 enoic acid allyl ester was purified by preparative HPLC 10 70 MeOH HO. During the purification 3.5 mg of title compound S 3 2S 1 2 2S 3S 3 methyl 2 2 2H 1 2 3 4 tetrazol 5 yl acetamido pentanamido acetyl 1H 2H 3H pyrrolo 2 3 b pyridin 2 yl formamido 4 oxobutanoic acid C4 was also formed and collected separately. MS LC MS m z observed 624.03 expected 623.28 M H . Compound was confirmed using LC MS and moved to next step as it was.

A round bottom flask was charged with a stir bar 4 allyloxy 3 1 2 S 3 S methyl 2 2 2H tetrazol 5 yl acetylamino pentanoylamino acetyl 2 3 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 b pyridine 2 S carbonyl amino but 3 enoic acid allyl ester 15 mg 0.03 mmol and TFA 2 mL . The reaction was stirred at room temperature for 1 hr then concentrated to near dryness and reconcentrated twice from diethyl ether. The remaining solid contained desired compound in quantitative yield. MS LC MS m z observed 583.87 expected 584.26 M H . Compound was confirmed using LC MS and moved to next step as it was.

A round bottom flask was charged with a stir bar then purged with Nand 3 1 2 3 S methyl 2 S 2 2H tetrazol 5 yl acetylamino pentanoylamino acetyl 2 3 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 b pyridine 2 S carbonyl amino 4 oxo butyric acid allyl ester 18 mg 0.037 mmol Pd PPh 2.6 mg 0.0023 mmol and DCM 6 mL were added under N. Morpholine 3 mg 0.039 mmol was added and the reaction was stirred at RT for 90 min under N. Analysis of the reaction by LC MS showed complete conversion of 3 1 2 3 S methyl 2 S 2 2H tetrazol 5 yl acetylamino pentanoylamino acetyl 2 3 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 b pyridine 2 S carbonyl amino 4 oxo butyric acid allyl ester and the reaction was acidified to pH 5 using formic acid. The reaction was concentrated and the residue was purified by preparative HPLC 10 70 MeOH HO. The title compound C4 9.0 mg 0.017 mmol 44 was collected as an off white solid. The H NMR spectrum consistently did not show the aldehyde proton. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d6 8.72 1H m 8.45 8.35 2H m 8.12 1H d J 6 Hz 7.62 1H d J 6 Hz 7.00 1H t J 6 Hz 4.90 1H m 4.70 1H m 4.45 1H dd J 20.4 Hz 4.28 1H m 3.91 2H m 3.45 3.38 2H m 3.23 1H m 2.98 2.80 2H m 1.74 1H m 1.46 1H m 1.11 1H m 0.86 3H d J 4 Hz 0.81 3H t J 8 Hz MS LC MS m z observed 543.94 expected 544.23 M H .

 S 4 BENZYLCARBAMOYL 3 2S 1 2 2S 3S 3 METHYL 2 2 2H 1 2 3 4 TETRAZOL 5 YL ACETAMIDO PENTANAMIDO ACETYL 2 3 DIHYDRO 1H INDOL 2 YL FORMAMIDO 4 OXOBUTANOIC ACID

Z L aspartic acid methyl ester 2 g 7.11 mmol 1 eq. EDC 1.77 g 9.244 mmol 1.3 eq. and DMAP 86.9 mg 0.711 mmol 0.1 eq. were combined in a round bottom flask. DCM 40 mL was then added and within one minute triphenylphosphoranylidene acetonitrile 2.79 g 9.24 mmol 1.3 eq. was added in one portion. The reaction was left at RT for 4 hrs and then successively washed with water 1 40 mL and NaHCO sat d aqueous 1 40 mL . The organic layer was dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated. The product was purified on normal phase using 0 to 50 ethyl acetate in hexanes as the eluent to give S methyl 3 benzyloxy carbonyl amino 5 cyano 4 oxo 5 triphenylphosphoranylidene pentanoate as a white foam 1.75 g 44 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 3.15 1H dd J 5 17 Hz 3.53 1H dd J 5 17 Hz 3.65 3H s 5.12 2H s 5.18 1H m 5.84 1H d J 7 Hz 7.21 7.42 20H m MS LC MS m z observed 564.94 expected 565.19 M H .

 S Methyl 3 benzyloxy carbonyl amino 5 cyano 4 oxo 5 triphenylphosphoranylidene pentanoate 500 mg 0.886 mmol 1 eq. was ozonized in dry DCM 15 mL at 78 C. for 1 hour. The blue green reaction mixture was then purged with Ofor 10 min and Nfor 10 min at 78 C. The mixture became yellow. A solution of BnNH 0.145 mL 1.328 mmol 1.5 eq. was added and the reaction was left at 78 C. for 1 hour and then allowed to warm up to RT. The solvent was then concentrated and the product was purified on normal phase using 0 to 35 ethyl acetate in hexanes as the eluent to give S methyl 5 benzylamino 3 benzyloxy carbonyl amino 4 5 dioxopentanoate as a greenish solid 126.8 mg 36 . MS LC MS m z observed 399.05 expected 399.16 M H . Compound was confirmed using LC MS and moved to next step as it was.

 S Methyl 5 benzylamino 3 benzyloxy carbonyl amino 4 5 dioxopentanoate 126.8 mg 0.318 mmol was dissolved in MeOH 20 mL and treated with Pd C 10 wt 60 mg under a hydrogen atmosphere for 6 hrs. The reaction mixture was then filtered over CELITE and the solids were washed with MeOH 3 15 mL . The filtrate and washings were concentrated to give S methyl 3 amino 5 benzylamino 4 5 dioxopentanoate 56.7 mg 68 as a yellow solid. MS LC MS m z observed 265.66 expected 265.12 M H . Compound was confirmed using LC MS and moved to next step as it was.

 S 4 Benzylcarbamoyl 3 2S 1 2 2 amino 2S 3S 3 methyl pentano yl amino acetyl 2 3 dihydro 1H indol 2 yl formamido 4 oxobutanoic acid methyl ester was prepared from S methyl 3 amino 5 benzylamino 4 5 dioxopentanoate and 1 2 using method A but the purification was performed on normal phase using 10 to 95 ethyl acetate in hexanes as the eluent. MS LC MS m z observed 680.35 expected 680.33 M H . Compound was confirmed using LC MS and moved to next step as it was.

 S 4 Benzylcarbamoyl 3 2S 1 2 2S 3S 3 methyl 2 2 2H 1 2 3 4 tetrazol 5 yl acetamido pentanamido acetyl 2 3 dihydro 1H indol 2 yl formamido 4 oxobutanoic acid methyl ester was prepared from S 4 benzylcarbamoyl 3 2S 1 2 2 amino 2S 3S 3 methyl pentanoylamino acetyl 2 3 dihydro 1H indol 2 yl formamido 4 oxobutanoic acid methyl ester and 2 2H tetrazol 5 yl acetic acid using method A but with DMF as solvent for the coupling reaction. MS LC MS m z observed 690.12 expected 690.30 M H . Compound was confirmed using LC MS and moved to next step as it was.

Title compound S 4 benzylcarbamoyl 3 2S 1 2 2S 3S 3 methyl 2 2 2H 1 2 3 4 tetrazol 5 yl acetamido pentanamido acetyl 2 3 dihydro 1H indol 2 yl formamido 4 oxobutanoic acid C5 was prepared from S 4 benzylcarbamoyl 3 2S 1 2 2S 3S 3 methyl 2 2 2H 1 2 3 4 tetrazol 5 yl acetamido pentanamido acetyl 2 3 dihydro 1H indol 2 yl formamido 4 oxobutanoic acid methyl ester using method D with 2 eq. of LiOH HO. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d6 0.83 3H m 0.88 3H d J 7 Hz 1.12 1H m 1.48 1H m 1.78 1H m 2.96 3.15 2H m 3.32 1H m 3.48 3.67 2H m 3.93 4.12 4H m 4.20 4.38 3H m 5.08 1H m 7.00 1H t J 7 Hz 7.12 7.34 7H m 8.04 1H m 8.30 8.48 3H m MS LC MS m z observed 676.45 expected 676.28 M H .

 S Methyl 3 benzyloxy carbonyl amino 5 cyano 4 oxo 5 triphenylphosphoranylidene pentanoate 800 mg 1.417 mmol 1 eq. from Example C5 was ozonized in dry DCM 20 mL at 78 C. for 1 hour. The blue green reaction mixture was then purged with Ofor 10 min and Nfor 10 min at 78 C. The mixture became yellow. A solution of MeNH40 wt in water 165 mg 2.13 mmol 1.5 eq. was added and the reaction was left at 78 C. for 1 hour and then allowed to warm up to RT. The solvent was then concentrated and the product was purified on normal phase using 0 to ethyl acetate in hexanes as the eluent to give S methyl 3 benzyloxy carbonyl amino 5 methylamino 4 5 dioxopentanoate as a colorless glass 110.9 mg 24 . MS LC MS m z observed 322.84 expected 323.12 M H . Compound was confirmed using LC MS and moved to next step as it was.

 S Methyl 3 benzyloxy carbonyl amino 5 methylamino 4 5 dioxopentanoate 110.9 mg 0.344 mmol was dissolved in MeOH 20 mL and treated with Pd C 10 wt 55 mg under a hydrogen atmosphere for 6 hrs. The reaction mixture was then filtered over CELITE and the solids were washed with MeOH 3 15 mL . The filtrate and washings were concentrated to give S methyl 3 amino 5 methylamino 4 5 dioxopentanoate 56.7 mg 68 as a yellow oil. MS LC MS m z observed 189.40 expected 189.09 M H . Compound was confirmed using LC MS and moved to next step as it was.

 S 3 2S 1 2 2 Amino 2S 3S 3 methyl pentanoylamino acetyl 2 3 dihydro 1H indol 2 yl formamido 4 methylcarbamoyl 4 oxobutanoic methyl ester was prepared from S methyl 3 amino 5 methylamino 4 5 dioxopentanoate and 1 2 using method A. MS LC MS m z observed 604.66 expected 604.30 M H . Compound was confirmed using LC MS and moved to next step as it was.

 S 3 2S 1 2 2S 3S 3 Methyl 2 2 2H 1 2 3 4 tetrazol 5 yl acetamido pentanamido acetyl 2 3 dihydro 1H indol 2 yl formamido 4 methylcarbamoyl 4 oxobutanoic methyl ester was prepared from S 3 2S 1 2 2 amino 2S 3S 3 methyl pentanoylamino acetyl 2 3 dihydro 1H indol 2 yl formamido 4 methylcarbamoyl 4 oxobutanoic methyl ester and 2 2H tetrazol 5 yl acetic acid using method A but with DMF as solvent for the coupling reaction. MS LC MS m z observed 614.65 expected 614.27 M H . Compound was confirmed using LC MS and moved to next step as it was.

Title compound S 3 2S 1 2 2S 3S 3 methyl 2 2 2H 1 2 3 4 tetrazol 5 yl acetamido pentanamido acetyl 2 3 dihydro 1H indol 2 yl formamido 4 methylcarbamoyl 4 oxobutanoic acid C6 was prepared from S 3 2S 1 2 2S 3S 3 methyl 2 2 2H 1 2 3 4 tetrazol 5 yl acetamido pentanamido acetyl 2 3 dihydro 1H indol 2 yl formamido 4 methylcarbamoyl 4 oxobutanoic methyl ester using method D with 2 eq. of LiOH HO. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d6 0.83 3H m 0.88 3H d J 7 Hz 1.12 1H m 1.48 1H m 1.78 1H m 2.57 3H d J 4 Hz 2.96 3.15 2H m 3.32 1H m 3.48 3.67 2H m 3.88 4.00 2H m 4.10 1H m 4.28 4.35 2H m 5.08 1H m 7.00 1H m 7.12 7.34 2H m 7.80 1H m 8.04 1H m 8.30 8.48 2H m MS LC MS m z observed 600.03 expected 600.25 M H .

 S Ethyl 1 2 2S 3S 2 2 2H tetrazol 5 yl acetamido 3 methylpentanamido acetyl indoline 2 carboxylate was prepared from S ethyl 1 2 2S 3S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl amino 3 methylpentanamido acetyl indoline 2 carboxylate from the synthesis of I 2 and 2 2H tetrazol 5 yl acetic acid using method A but with DMF as solvent for the coupling reaction. MS LC MS m z observed 471.82 expected 472.23 M H . Compound was confirmed using LC MS and moved to next step as it was.

 S Ethyl 1 2 2S 3S 2 2 2H tetrazol 5 yl acetamido 3 methylpentanamido acetyl indoline 2 carboxylate 291.4 mg 0.618 mmol was dissolved in tert butanol 20 mL and a solution of LiOH HO 51.9 mg 1.236 mmol 2 eq. in water 10 mL was added. The reaction was left at RT for 2 hrs and then acidified to pH 3 with a HCl solution aqueous 1 N . The solvents were then concentrated and the residue was suspended in water 20 mL and the white solid was filtered and washed with water 3 15 mL to give S 1 2 2S 3S 2 2 1H tetrazol 5 yl acetamido 3 methylpentanamido acetyl indoline 2 carboxylic acid as a white solid 157 mg 57 . MS LC MS m z observed 443.82 expected 444.20 M H . Compound was confirmed using LC MS and moved to next step as it was.

3 tert Butoxycarbonylamino 5 chloro 4 oxo pentanoic acid benzyl ester 25 mg 0.0703 mmol was treated with HCl in dioxane 2 mL 4 N for 30 minutes. The solvent was then evaporated and the residue was swapped with CHCl 2 mL twice to give a white solid that was dissolved in CHCl 2 mL and added HOBt 12.9 mg 0.0844 mmol 1.2 eq. EDC 20.2 mg 0.105 mmol 1.5 eq and S 1 2 2S 3S 2 2 1H tetrazol 5 yl acetamido 3 methylpentanamido acetyl indoline 2 carboxylic acid 31.1 mg 0.0703 mmol 1 eq. . DIPEA 0.049 mL 0.281 mmol 4 eq. was then added and the reaction was left at RT for 45 minutes and quenched with AcOH 0.2 mL . The reaction went to 40 conversion. The solvent was evaporated and the product was purified by reverse phase C18 chromatography 10 to 60 methanol in water to give 5 chloro 3 S 1 2 S 3 S methyl 2 2 2H tetrazol 5 yl acetylamino pentanoylamino acetyl 2 3 dihydro 1H indole 2 S carbonyl amino 4 oxo pentanoic acid benzyl ester as a white solid 15.5 mg 32 . MS LC MS m z observed 680.87 expected 681.26 M H . Compound was confirmed using LC MS and moved to next step as it was.

Title compound S 5 chloro 3 1 2 2S 3S 3 methyl 2 2 2H 1 2 3 4 tetrazol 5 yl acetamido pentanamido acetyl 2 3 dihydro 1H indol 2 yl formamido S 4 oxopentanoic acid C7 was prepared from 5 chloro 3 S 1 2 S 3 S methyl 2 2 2H tetrazol 5 yl acetylamino pentanoylamino acetyl 2 3 dihydro 1H indole 2 S carbonyl amino 4 oxo pentanoic acid benzyl ester using method F but with a mixture of methanol CHCl 1 1 v v as the solvent. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d6 0.77 0.93 6H m 1.15 1H m 1.48 1H m 1.79 1H m 2.73 1H m 3.11 1H m 3.20 3.45 2H m 3.55 3.70 2H m 3.97 2H s 4.13 1H m 4.32 1H m 4.52 1H m 4.72 1H m 5.20 1H m 7.02 1H m 7.15 7.30 2H m 8.05 1H m 8.35 8.50 2H m 8.90 1H m . MS LC MS m z observed 590.90 expected 591.21 M H .

I 10 200 mg 0.719 mmol was dissolved in a mixture of allyl alcohol and HCl in dioxane 4 M 20 mL 1 1 v v and the reaction mixture was stirred at RT for 3 hours. The reaction mixture was then concentrated to dryness and swapped with allyl alcohol 2 25 mL . The solid obtained was dried well under reduced pressure to give S allyl 2 3 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 b pyridine 2 carboxylate hydrochloride as a white solid 173 mg quantitative . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d6 3.23 1H dd J 5 18 Hz 3.55 1H dd J 11 18 Hz 4.65 2H d J 5 Hz 4.86 1H dd J 5 11 Hz 5.25 1H d J 10 Hz 5.36 1H d J 17 Hz 5.94 1H m 6.80 1H t J 7 Hz 7.68 7.74 2H m 9.29 1H bs MS LC MS m z observed 204.98 expected 205.10 M H .

 S Allyl 1 S 5 benzyloxy 2 tert butoxycarbonyl amino 5 oxopentanoyl 2 3 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 b pyridine 2 carboxylate was prepared from S allyl 2 3 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 b pyridine 2 carboxylate hydrochloride and Boc L glutamic acid benzyl ester 1.2 eq. using method C in DMF. MS LC MS m z observed 523.95 expected 524.24 M H . Compound was confirmed using LC MS and moved to next step as it was.

 S Allyl 1 S 5 benzyloxy 2 2S 3S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl amino 3 methylpentanamido 5 oxopentanoyl 2 3 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 b pyridine 2 carboxylate was prepared from S allyl 1 S 5 benzyloxy 2 tert butoxycarbonyl amino 5 oxopentanoyl 2 3 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 b pyridine 2 carboxylate and Boc L Isoleucine using method A but without swapping with MeOH. MS LC MS m z observed 636.97 expected 637.32 M H . Compound was confirmed using LC MS and moved to next step as it was.

 S Allyl 1 13S 16S 16 3 benzyloxy 3 oxopropyl 13 S sec butyl 2 2 dimethyl 4 11 14 trioxo 3 oxa 5 12 15 triazaheptadecan 17 oyl 2 3 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 b pyridine 2 carboxylate was prepared from S Allyl 1 S 5 benzyloxy 2 2S 3S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl amino 3 methylpentanamido 5 oxopentanoyl 2 3 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 b pyridine 2 carboxylate and Boc 6 aminohexanoic acid using method A in DMF as the solvent for the coupling reaction but without swapping with MeOH. MS LC MS m z observed 749.95 expected 750.41 M H . Compound was confirmed using LC MS and moved to next step as it was.

 S Allyl 1 13S 16S 16 3 benzyloxy 3 oxopropyl 13 S sec butyl 2 2 dimethyl 4 11 14 trioxo 3 oxa 5 12 15 triazaheptadecan 17 oyl 2 3 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 b pyridine 2 carboxylate 655 mg 0.874 mmol 1 equiv and Pd PPh 202 mg 0.175 0.2 equiv were dissolved in CHCl 25 mL under N. Morpholine 0.228 mL 2.622 mmol 3 equiv was then added and the reaction was left at RT for 1 h. The solvent was then evaporated and the product was purified by column chromatography reverse phase using 10 to 60 methanol in water as the eluent to give pure S 1 13S 16S 16 3 benzyloxy 3 oxopropyl 13 S sec butyl 2 2 dimethyl 4 11 14 trioxo 3 oxa 5 12 15 triazaheptadecan 17 oyl 2 3 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 b pyridine 2 carboxylic acid as a yellow foam 216 mg 35 . The remaining compound was contaminated with triphenylphosphine oxide. MS LC MS m z observed 709.78 expected 710.38 M H . Compound was confirmed using LC MS and moved to next step as it was.

Boc L aspartic acid beta benzyl ester chloromethylketone 50 mg 0.141 mmol 2 eq. was treated with HCl in dioxane 4 N 4 mL for 30 minutes. The solvent was then evaporated and the residue was swapped with CHCl 4 mL twice to give a white solid that was dissolved in CHCl 2 mL and added HOBt 12.9 mg 0.0844 mmol 1.2 eq. EDC 20.2 mg 0.105 mmol 1.5 eq and S 1 413S 16S 16 3 benzyloxy 3 oxopropyl 13 S sec butyl 2 2 dimethyl 4 11 14 trioxo 3 oxa 5 12 15 triazaheptadecan 17 oyl 2 3 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 b pyridine 2 carboxylic acid 50 mg 0.070 mmol 1 eq. . DIPEA 0.049 mL 0.281 mmol 4 eq. was then added and the reaction was left at RT for 45 minutes and quenched with AcOH 0.3 mL . The reaction went to 55 conversion. The solvent was evaporated and the product was purified by reverse phase C18 chromatography 10 to 85 methanol in water to give 13S 16S benzyl 16 S 2 R 1 benzyloxy 5 chloro 1 4 dioxopentan 3 yl carbamoyl 2 3 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 b pyridine 1 carbonyl 13 S sec butyl 2 2 dimethyl 4 11 14 trioxo 3 oxa 5 12 15 triazanonadecan 19 oate as a colorless glass 22.4 mg 33 . MS LC MS m z observed 946.77 expected 947.43 M H . Compound was confirmed using LC MS and moved to next step as it was.

 S 4 2S 3S 2 6 Aminohexanamido 3 methylpentanamido 5 S 2 R 1 carboxy 4 chloro 3 oxobutan 2 yl carbamoyl 2 3 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 b pyridin 1 yl 5 oxopentanoic acid hydrochloride was prepared from 13S 16S benzyl 16 S 2 R 1 benzyloxy 5 chloro 1 4 dioxopentan 3 yl carbamoyl 2 3 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 b pyridine 1 carbonyl 13 S sec butyl 2 2 dimethyl 4 11 14 trioxo 3 oxa 5 12 15 triazanonadecan 19 oate using method F but with a mixture of methanol CHCl 1 1 v v as the solvent followed by method E but without any purification. MS LC MS m z observed 666.96 expected 667.29 M H . Compound was confirmed using LC MS and moved to next step as it was.

D biotin 140 mg 0.573 mmol 10 eq. HOBt 87.7 mg 0.573 mmol 10 eq. and EDC 110 mg 0.573 mmol 10 eq. were dissolved in DMF 3 mL and DIEA 0.150 mL 0.860 mmol 15 eq. was added. This mixture was stirred at rt for 5 minutes and was then added quickly a solution of S 4 2S 3S 2 6 aminohexanamido 3 methylpentanamido 5 S 2 R 1 carboxy 4 chloro 3 oxobutan 2 yl carbamoyl 2 3 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 b pyridin 1 yl 5 oxopentanoic acid hydrochloride 40.3 mg 0.0573 mmol 1 eq. in DMF 3 mL . The reaction mixture was left at RT for 30 minutes and then quenched with AcOH 0.5 mL . The solvent was evaporated and the product was purified by preparative HPLC reverse phase using a 10 minutes gradient from 43 to 55 methanol in water as the eluent to give S 3 1 2S 2 2S 3S 2 6 5 3aS 4S 6aR 2 oxo hexahydro 1H thieno 3 4 d imidazolidin 4 yl pentanamidohexanamido 3 methylpentanamido 4 carboxybutanoyl 1H 2H 3H pyrrolo 2 3 b pyridin 2 yl formamido 5 chloro S 4 oxopentanoic acid C8 as a beige solid 8.7 mg 17 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d6 0.74 0.87 6H m 1.10 1H m 1.16 1.71 16H m 1.85 1H m 1.95 2.20 5H m 2.25 2.45 2H m 2.57 1H m 2.82 1H dd J 5 12 Hz 2.95 3.02 2H m 3.09 1H m 3.28 3.42 3H m 3.56 3.62 2H m 3.69 1H m 4.11 1H m 4.20 1H m 4.30 1H m 5.02 0.5H m 5.32 0.5H m 5.83 1H m 6.35 1H s 6.42 1H s 7.05 1H m 7.62 7.85 3H m 8.12 8.25 2H m 12.05 12.30 2H bs MS LC MS m z observed 892.79 expected 893.36 M H .

An assay buffer 50 mM HEPES pH 7.5 10 w v sucrose 0.2 w v CHAPS and 5 mM DTT was prepared for testing Granzyme B activity. As the assay buffer included DTT it was added immediately prior to running the assay. A 2 GzmB enzyme mix was prepared 10 nM enzyme Substrate Ac IEPD AMC 150 uM California Peptide Research Inc. Napa Calif. USA excitation emission wavelengths were 380 nm and 460 nm respectively. Assay temperature was 30 C. at 80 uL per well. Compounds were screened at one or two appropriate concentrations to determine the percent inhibition at those concentrations and or a full dose response curve typically 8 points to identify the IC in duplicate triplicate or higher replicates as needed. Ac IEPD AMC Biovision Inc. Milpitas Calif. USA was used as a control and was also assessed in full dose response in duplicate for each assay plate. Background control wells consisted of 1 assay buffer DMSO 5 v v and substrate. Positive control wells consisted of GzmB enzyme DMSO 5 v v and substrate. Test compounds and control compounds were diluted in DMSO to 40 the final desired concentration. For example a test compound may be tested in dose response in serial tripling dilution condition starting at 20 uM and ending at 9.1 nM or any appropriate concentration range and dilution scheme . Control compounds were prepared similarly. Diluted compounds were prepared in a dilution plate and transferred to the reaction plate 96 well medium binding plate Greiner Bio One FLUOTRAC to allow for the desired final concentrations when added to the enzyme with the assay buffer. After mixing the reaction plate was placed on a shaker at 300 RPM for 5 min followed by incubation covered on the bench for 20 min. Plates were warmed to 30 C. for a total incubation time of 30 min. Plates so prepared were ready for addition of substrate and the subsequent reaction.

The substrate assay was prepared in advance at 2 the final desired concentration in DMSO. The appropriate substrate mix was added to each appropriate well on the reaction plate and the plate was read immediately in the TECAN plate reader TECAN INFINITE M1000 Pro set to the correct wavelength using 25 cycles kinetic interval of 1 min number of reads per well of 20 with shaking set to 1 s double orbital 2 mm amplitude. The gain was set to optimal 50 . When appropriate percent inhibition data was collected and fitted to generate ICdata using GraphPad Prism 5 GraphPad Software La Jolla Calif. USA www.graphpad.com and its non linear regression analysis tools or other equivalent tools.

Select compounds of Examples C1 C8 exhibited inhibitory activity against hGzmB. Each of the compounds of the invention identified in Table 1 exhibited Granzyme B inhibitory activity.

A 2 assay buffer 50 mM HEPES pH 7.5 0.2 w v CHAPS 5 mM DTT was prepared for the enzyme to be tested. Since the assay buffer included DTT it was added immediately prior to running the assay. A 2 enzyme mix 10 nM enzyme Substrate Ac IEPD AMC 50 uM California Peptide Research Inc. Napa Calif. USA excitation emission wavelengths were 380 nm and 460 nm respectively. Assay temperature was 30 C. was prepared at 26 uL per well. Compounds were screened at one or two appropriate concentrations to determine the percent inhibition at those concentrations and or a full dose response curve typically 12 points to identify the IC in duplicate triplicate or higher replicates as needed. Ac IEPD AMC Biovision Inc. Milpitas Calif. USA was used as a control and was also assessed in full dose response in duplicate for each assay plate. Background control wells consisted of 1 assay buffer and substrate. Positive control wells consisted of GzmB enzyme no DMSO and substrate. Test compounds and control compounds were diluted in 1 Assay Buffer to 15 the final desired concentration. For example a test compound may be tested in dose response in serial tripling dilution condition starting at 20 uM and ending at 0.1 nM or any appropriate concentration range and dilution scheme . The control compound was prepared similarly. Diluted compounds were prepared in a dilution plate and transferred to the reaction plate 384 well medium binding plate Greiner Bio One FLUOTRAC to allow for the desired final concentrations when added to the enzyme with AB. After mixing the reaction plate was placed on a shaker at 300 RPM for 5 min followed by incubation covered on the bench for 20 min. Plates were warmed to 30 C. for 5 mins for a total incubation time of 30 min. Plates so prepared were ready for addition of substrate and the subsequent reaction.

The assay substrate was prepared in advance at 2 the final desired concentration 50 uM in assay buffer. 30 uL of the substrate mix was added to each appropriate well on the reaction plate and the plate was read immediately in the TECAN plate reader TECAN INFINITE M1000 Pro set to the correct wavelength using 15 cycles kinetic interval of 1 min number of reads per well of 20 with shaking set to 1 s double orbital 2 mm amplitude. The gain was set to 85 with the z set at 23000 um . When appropriate percent inhibition data was collected and fitted to generate ICdata using GraphPad Prism 5 GraphPad Software La Jolla Calif. USA www.graphpad.com and its non linear regression analysis tools or other equivalent tools.

Select compounds of Examples C1 C8 exhibited inhibitory activity against hGzmB. Each of the compounds of the invention identified in Table 1 exhibited Granzyme B inhibitory activity.

Black 96 well high binding assay plates Griener Bio one were treated overnight at 4 C. with 40 uL of 8 ug mL Hilyte Fluor 488 labeled Fibronectin Cytoskeleton Inc . After fibronectin coating plates were washed 3 times in buffer 20 mM Tris HCl pH 7.4 20 mM NaCl then once with granzyme B assay buffer 50 mM HEPES pH 7.5 0.1 CHAPS . After washing 50 uL of granzyme B assay buffer was added to each fibronectin coated well. In a separate non binding 96 well assay plate 5 uL of 20 inhibitor serial dilution stocks were added to 45 uL of 2.22 GzmB mix to establish inhibition enzyme inhibitor mixes were all prepared in granzyme B assay buffer and were incubated first at room temperature for 20 minutes then at 30 C. for another 10 minutes . After incubation 50 uL of this 2 enzyme inhibitor mix was added to the corresponding coated well to initiate fibronectin cleavage 20 nM final granzyme B concentration 8 point inhibitor dilution series starting at 50 uM . The assay was conducted at 30 C. in the TECAN plate reader TECAN INFINITE M1000 Pro which was programmed to monitor the kinetic fluorescence polarization signal filter set Ex Em 470 nm 527 nm with readings taken every minute for 1 hour. Proteolytic activity was evaluated as the rate of fluorescence enhancement in the parallel emission over the linear range of the reaction. Inhibition values were calculated from assay controls and the resulting date is shown in Table 2.

