---

title: Sensing circuit for resistive memory cells
abstract: A sensing system may include a sense amplifier, a sensing circuit configured to sense a current difference, a data cell selectively coupled to the sensing circuit, a first reference cell selectively coupled to the sensing circuit, and a second reference cell selectively coupled to the sensing circuit. The resistance of the first reference cell and the second reference cell are different.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09502091&OS=09502091&RS=09502091
owner: Industry-Academic Cooperation Foundation, Yonsei University
number: 09502091
owner_city: Seoul
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20150902
---
This disclosure relates generally to integrated logic sensing circuits and more specifically but not exclusively to a sensing circuit for resistive data cells.

Memory devices conventionally include arrays of bit cells that each store a bit of data. Each data bit can represent a logical zero 0 or a logical one 1 which may correspond to a state of the bit cell. During a read operation of a selected bit cell a voltage level close to ground may be representative of 0 and a relatively higher voltage level may be representative of 1 . Bit lines are coupled to various bit cells in the memory array and the bit lines couple the bit cells to other components used in read write operations.

Magnetoresistive random access memory MRAM is a non volatile memory technology where data is stored based on magnetization polarities of bit cells. In contrast to conventional RAM technologies that store data as electric charges or current flows MRAM uses magnetic elements. A magnetic tunnel junction MTJ which is conventionally used as a storage element or bit cell for MRAM technology can be formed from two magnetic layers each of which can hold a magnetic moment separated by an insulating tunnel barrier layer. Conventionally the fixed layer is set to a particular polarity. The free layer s polarity is free to change to match that of an external magnetic field that can be applied. A change in the polarity of the free layer will change the resistance of the MTJ bit cell. For example when the magnetization polarities are aligned or parallel a low resistance state R exists which corresponds to a logical 0 . When the magnetization polarities are not aligned or are anti parallel a high resistance state R exists which corresponds to a logical 1 .

Thus in magnetoresistive random access memory MRAM each bit cell e.g. a MTJ bit cell has a resistance value based on whether the bit cell represents a logical zero 0 or a logical one 1 . Specifically the resistance of the bit cell R relates to the data stored in the bit cell.

Thus in order to write a logical 0 or a logical 1 corresponding write currents are passed through the MTJ bit cell to effect a corresponding alignment of the free layer and the fixed layer or in other words to program the MTJ bit cell to the corresponding resistance state.

In order to read the bit cell a sensing current is passed through the bit cell and a voltage Vdeveloped across the resistance Ris then compared to a reference voltage V. If Vis high relative to V then the bit cell is determined to have a logical 1 stored therein. If Vis low relative to V then the bit cell is determined to have a logical 0 stored therein. The difference between the voltage across the bit cell Vand the reference voltage V differential voltage V V V is therefore used to indicate the logic state stored in the bit cell. A sensing margin refers generally refers to the amount by which V must be correctly sensed as positive or negative in order to correctly read the value stored in the bit cell as 1 or 0 respectively.

In general the output voltage difference V Vdata Vref in the sensing circuit is determined by the sensing current difference I Iref Idata and output resistance of load PMOS r V I r.

In conventional sense amplifiers however the sensing margin is degraded with technology scaling due to a decrease in supply voltage an increase in process variation and limited sensing current to prevent read disturbances. To combat these problems designers have turned to tighter magnetic tunnel junction MTJ resistance RL and RH distributions or novel bit cell structures e.g. separated read and write paths . Unfortunately these solutions have their own problems such as poor sensing margins and slow speeds along with issues in manufacturing process variations that result in widely varying performance of the circuits. In general the degradation in the sensing margin is overcome by using offset tolerant sensing circuits. However these circuits have inherent performance degradation because of the use of a multi stage sensing operation.

In addition conventional offset tolerant sensing circuits use an irregular array structure. illustrates examples of a conventional offset tolerant sensing circuit in an irregular array structure. In a conventional offset tolerant sensing circuits in an irregular array structure uses two single pass transistor and double MTJs for Rref generation two 1T2MTJs . The irregular array structure using two 1T2MTJs has the following problems in the reference cell regularity problem because the reference cell requires a 1T2MTJ cell that is different from the 1T1MTJ data cell write current degradation because of the serially connected Rand Rreference cells and area overhead because of the inherent characteristics of the reference bit line Ref BL structure the number of word lines WLs e.g. 512 is much greater than the number of bit lines BLs e.g. 16 corresponding to an sense amplifier SA .

In a conventional offset tolerant sensing circuits in an irregular array structure uses four single pass transistor and single MTJ for Rref generation four 1T1MTJs . The irregular array structure using four 1T1MTJs has the following problems in the reference cell control signal complexity because only one reference cell is used for every four BLs and area overhead due to the additional write driver. For effective offset tolerant sensing as shown a conventional offset tolerant sensing circuit in an irregular array structure may cause a regularity problem additional cost and design complexity over the previous offset tolerant sensing scheme.

Thus an offset tolerant sensing scheme with a regular array structure is needed that does not have a regularity problem additional costs and design difficulty. Accordingly there is a need for systems apparatus and methods that improve upon conventional approaches including the improved methods systems and apparatus provided hereby for removing the effect of offset voltages in correctly sensing or reading the bit cells of a MTJ array without requiring irregular structures like specially created reference cells whose structure is different from the structure of the data cells.

The following presents a simplified summary relating to one or more aspects and or examples associated with the apparatus and methods disclosed herein. As such the following summary should not be considered an extensive overview relating to all contemplated aspects and or examples nor should the following summary be regarded to identify key or critical elements relating to all contemplated aspects and or examples or to delineate the scope associated with any particular aspect and or example. Accordingly the following summary has the sole purpose to present certain concepts relating to one or more aspects and or examples relating to the apparatus and methods disclosed herein in a simplified form to precede the detailed description presented below.

In one aspect a current sense system may include a sense amplifier configured to receive an input signal the sense amplifier having a first voltage output and a second voltage output a current sensing circuit configured to sense a current difference between the first voltage output and the second voltage output the current sensing circuit having a third voltage output and a fourth voltage output and coupled to the first voltage output and the second voltage output a data load selectively coupled to the third voltage output and the fourth voltage output a first reference load selectively coupled to the fourth voltage output and a second reference load selectively coupled to the third voltage output.

In another aspect a current sensing circuit may include a sense amplifier configured to output a data voltage and a reference voltage a current sensing circuit coupled to the sense amplifier for receiving the data voltage and the reference voltage the current sensing circuit outputting a first data current and a first reference current a data cell selectively coupled to the first data current and the first reference current and a reference cell selectively coupled to the first data current and the first reference current.

In still another aspect a memory array may include a sense amplifier configured to receive an input signal the sense amplifier having a first voltage output and a second voltage output a current sensing circuit configured to sense a current difference between the first voltage output and the second voltage output the current sensing circuit having a third voltage output and a fourth voltage output and coupled to the first voltage output and the second voltage output a plurality of data cells arranged in a regular array structure each of the plurality of data cells selectively coupled to the third voltage output and the fourth voltage output a first plurality of reference cells each of the first plurality of reference cells selectively coupled to the fourth voltage output and a second plurality of reference cells each of the second plurality of reference cells selectively coupled to the third voltage output.

Other features and advantages associated with the apparatus and methods disclosed herein will be apparent to those skilled in the art based on the accompanying drawings and detailed description.

In accordance with common practice the features depicted by the drawings may not be drawn to scale. Accordingly the dimensions of the depicted features may be arbitrarily expanded or reduced for clarity. In accordance with common practice some of the drawings are simplified for clarity. Thus the drawings may not depict all components of a particular apparatus or method. Further like reference numerals denote like features throughout the specification and figures.

The exemplary methods apparatus and systems disclosed herein advantageously address the industry needs as well as other previously unidentified needs and mitigate shortcomings of the conventional methods apparatus and systems. For example an offset tolerant sensing scheme with regular array structure that has the advantages of no regularity problems no additional cost and design easiness may include a sensing circuit with a selectively coupled resistor cell R Rcell for use during different operations of the sensing circuit such that the resistor cell is the same as the data cell resistive memory bit cell unlike the use of a reference cell Rcell of an irregular array structure.

With reference now to circuit may be utilized for reading a bit cell in an MRAM array. Circuit includes sensing circuit sense amplifier data circuit and reference circuit . Sensing circuit is configured as a dual stage sensing circuit. The operation of these circuits in each of the two stages will be discussed in further detail with reference to . In general sensing circuit is configured to sense a difference between data voltage Vdata developed across bit cell in data circuit and reference voltage Vref developed across reference cell or reference cell in reference circuit . Upon completion of the second stage the difference between the data voltage and reference voltage i.e. V Vdata Vref is sensed for determining the value stored in bit cell once again if V is positive then the value stored in bit cell is read as a logical value 1 and if V is negative the value stored in bit cell is read as a logical value 0. 

In further detail data circuit includes bit cell which may be an MTJ. Bit cell may be in a row i of the MRAM array and thus may be selected by the word line WLi and bit line BL sel . The same word line WLi and SS or SS are used to select reference cell SS or reference cell SS in reference circuit for a sensing operation of bit cell . Pull down transistors and e.g. n channel metal oxide semiconductor NMOS transistors may enable current flow through selected bit cell reference cell and reference cell . In sensing circuit stage selection transistors and e.g. NMOS transistors are enabled by control signal SS in a first stage see and stage selection transistors and e.g. NMOS transistors are enabled by control signal SS in a second stage see . The voltage clamp signal VG clamp is supplied by an external source and is used to clamp the gate voltages of data clamp transistor e.g. an NMOS transistor and reference clamp transistor e.g. an NMOS transistor . Thus VG clamp controls the current passing through bit cell and reference cell or reference cell . During a read operation data voltage Vdata is developed at node and reference voltage Vref is developed at node .

Equalization transistor e.g. an NMOS transistor is controlled by equalization signal EQ. Data load transistor e.g. a p channel metal oxide semiconductor PMOS transistor and reference load transistor e.g. a PMOS transistor are diode connected. Reference load transistor is coupled to reference node at which reference gate voltage VG load is generated. Once the read operation is completed the output i.e. the data value stored in bit cell is available at output node which provides output VOUT SC. Degeneration transistors and e.g. PMOS transistors are activated by coupling their gates to ground voltage and one of their terminals e.g. source terminal coupled to positive power supply voltage Vdd.

With reference now to a first stage of the sensing operation will be described. The first stage is entered by turning on the stage selection signal SS and turning off the stage selection signal SS . Initially at a starting point of the first stage equalization signal EQ is driven high to turn on equalization transistor which equalizes nodes and to the same voltage. Nodes and are rapidly charged through degeneration PMOS transistors and which leads to an improvement in sensing speed. Once nodes and are equalized and charged the equalization signal EQ is driven low which causes equalization transistor to be turned off thus decoupling nodes and . A first reference gate voltage VG load appears at reference node in this first stage based on bit cell and reference cell .

On the data side current Istage flows through data clamp transistor stage selection transistor BL selection transistor since control signal BLS is high into bit cell in a first direction. The current Istage is a first pulse of the sensing current for reading bit cell passed in the first direction. At node the voltage data voltage Vdata is formed. It is noted that Vdata at node in the first stage is based on the first reference gate voltage VG load at node . The data voltage Vdata developed in the first stage is stored in a first storage means such as a first capacitor until the second stage completes at which point Vref will be available for determining V Vdata Vref in a sense amplifier . The first capacitor may comprise for example gate capacitors and diffusion capacitors of the transistors e.g. NMOS and PMOS in circuit .

The second stage is entered by turning on the stage selection signal SS and turning off the stage selection signal SS . Once again at a starting point of the second stage equalization signal EQ is driven high to turn on equalization transistor which resets nodes and to the same voltage. Following this the equalization signal EQ is driven low which causes equalization transistor to be turned off severing the connection between nodes and .

In the second stage a second reference gate voltage VG load appears at node based on bit cell and reference cell . In more detail in the second stage current Istage flows through reference clamp transistor stage selection transistor into bit cell in a second direction and pull down transistor . The current Istage is a second pulse of the sensing current for reading bit cell passed in the second direction. At node reference voltage Vref is formed based on the second reference gate voltage VG load. Reference voltage Vref is stored in a second storage means such as a second capacitor. The second capacitor may also comprise for example gate capacitors and diffusion capacitors of the transistors e.g. NMOS and PMOS in circuit . For example When R R 

 V V 2 2 V Note V I rwhen I I I . I flowing between Rand Ris two times larger than I flowing between R or R and R 

Circuit may include a sense amplifier as illustrated. Sense amplifier may be coupled to sensing circuit in order to amplify the voltage difference V between the data voltage Vdata available at node at the end of the first stage and reference voltage Vref also available at node at the end of the second stage . Sense amplifier may be activated using signal SAE after the dual stage operation is completed as described previously at which point Vdata and Vref would have been stored in the first and second capacitors. After the dual stage operation when signal SAE is driven high and sense amplifier is activated which magnifies the difference between Vdata and Vref and causes the voltages of the output nodes OUT and OUTB to become rail to rail voltages corresponding to a logical value of 0 on one output node and 1 on the other output node. Sense amplifier may be coupled to circuit using pass gates and staged enable signals such that the values of Vref and Vdata available at different times from the same node may be transferred to inputs of sense amplifier . A further detailed explanation of the cooperation of sense amplifier with circuit will be avoided in this disclosure for the sake of brevity.

It will be appreciated that exemplary aspects include various methods for performing the processes and functions disclosed herein. For example as illustrated in an exemplary aspect can include a method of reading a resistive memory bit cell e.g. . At Block the method for reading the bit cell begins. During a first stage of the read operation on the bit cell Block a first sensing current e.g. I is passed in a first direction through the bit cell and a first reference cell e.g. . During a second stage of the read operation Block a second sensing current e.g. I is passed in a second direction through the bit cell and a second reference cell e.g. . In method the duration of the first stage and a duration of the second stage are equal to half of a duration of the read operation and a first resistance of the first reference cell is different from a second resistance of the second reference cell.

In this description certain terminology is used to describe certain features. The term mobile device can describe and is not limited to a music player a video player an entertainment unit a navigation device a communications device a mobile device a mobile phone a smartphone a personal digital assistant a fixed location terminal a tablet computer a computer a wearable device a laptop computer a server an automotive device in an automotive vehicle and or other types of portable electronic devices typically carried by a person and or having communication capabilities e.g. wireless cellular infrared short range radio etc. . Further the terms user equipment UE mobile terminal mobile device and wireless device can be interchangeable.

Sensing circuits according to the examples above e.g. the sensing circuit and the memory array can be used for a number of different applications such as in the circuit components of a mobile device. Referring to as an example an UE here a wireless device which has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from a radio access network RAN that may ultimately come from a core network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in a memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms such as the current sensing circuit the current sense system and the memory array . The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in the memory . The local database is typically a flash data cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as an antenna a display a push to talk button and a keypad among other components as is known in the art.

The wireless communication between UE and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA W CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM Global System for Mobile Communications GSM 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any details described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other examples. Likewise the term examples does not require that all examples include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation. Use of the terms in one example an example in one feature and or a feature in this specification does not necessarily refer to the same feature and or example. Furthermore a particular feature and or structure can be combined with one or more other features and or structures. Moreover at least a portion of the apparatus described hereby can be configured to perform at least a portion of a method described hereby.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular examples only and is not intended to be limiting of examples of the disclosure. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises comprising includes and or including when used herein specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

It should be noted that the terms connected coupled or any variant thereof mean any connection or coupling either direct or indirect between elements and can encompass a presence of an intermediate element between two elements that are connected or coupled together via the intermediate element.

Any reference herein to an element using a designation such as first second and so forth does not limit the quantity and or order of those elements. Rather these designations are used as a convenient method of distinguishing between two or more elements and or instances of an element. Thus a reference to first and second elements does not mean that only two elements can be employed or that the first element must necessarily precede the second element. Also unless stated otherwise a set of elements can comprise one or more elements.

Nothing stated or illustrated in this application is intended to dedicate any component step feature benefit advantage or equivalent to the public regardless of whether the component step feature benefit advantage or the equivalent is recited in the claims.

Although some aspects have been described in connection with a device it goes without saying that these aspects also constitute a description of the corresponding method and so a block or a component of a device should also be understood as a corresponding method step or as a feature of a method step. Analogously thereto aspects described in connection with or as a method step also constitute a description of a corresponding block or detail or feature of a corresponding device. Some or all of the method steps can be performed by a hardware apparatus or using a hardware apparatus such as for example a microprocessor a programmable computer or an electronic circuit. In some examples some or a plurality of the most important method steps can be performed by such an apparatus.

In the detailed description above it can be seen that different features are grouped together in examples. This manner of disclosure should not be understood as an intention that the claimed examples require more features than are explicitly mentioned in the respective claim. Rather the situation is such that inventive content may reside in fewer than all features of an individual example disclosed. Therefore the following claims should hereby be deemed to be incorporated in the description wherein each claim by itself can stand as a separate example. Although each claim by itself can stand as a separate example it should be noted that although a dependent claim can refer in the claims to a specific combination with one or a plurality of claims other examples can also encompass or include a combination of said dependent claim with the subject matter of any other dependent claim or a combination of any feature with other dependent and independent claims. Such combinations are proposed herein unless it is explicitly expressed that a specific combination is not intended. Furthermore it is also intended that features of a claim can be included in any other independent claim even if said claim is not directly dependent on the independent claim.

It should furthermore be noted that methods disclosed in the description or in the claims can be implemented by a device comprising means for performing the respective steps or actions of this method.

Furthermore in some examples an individual step action can be subdivided into a plurality of sub steps or contain a plurality of sub steps. Such sub steps can be contained in the disclosure of the individual step and be part of the disclosure of the individual step.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative examples of the disclosure it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the examples of the disclosure described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Additionally well known elements will not be described in detail or may be omitted so as to not obscure the relevant details of the aspects and examples disclosed herein. Furthermore although elements of the disclosure may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

