---

title: Worksite monitoring and management systems and platforms
abstract: A platform comprising sensing devices, servers and mobile devices for monitoring conditions of objects on worksites. Potential violations of operation rules are alarmed to avoid damage, collision, and disaster. Emergency is detected and responded to operating staff members in charge.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09466038&OS=09466038&RS=09466038
owner: SAFETY KEY SOLUTIONS FZ-LLC
number: 09466038
owner_city: Dubai
owner_country: AE
publication_date: 20150220
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. application Ser. No. 61 943 115 filed Feb. 21 2014 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Safety security health maintenance and supply chain on worksites e.g. constructions airports shipyards factories and mines are important issues to achieve service level agreements SLA and quality and to control costs. Existing systems of monitoring worksites merely focus on a single aspect of safety security or health rather than integrating all pieces of information on a single platform. Furthermore the lack of the integration cannot predict the potential damages and collisions leading to disasters taking place. Therefore a new system is necessary to avoid the damages and it in turn hopefully can enhance the quality of working environment.

Described herein in some embodiments are platforms and systems for monitoring and managing worksites. In further embodiments the worksite monitoring and management includes standards compliance risk mitigation e.g. risks to safety security health breakdown SLA quality costs etc. and emergency response coordination including automated or manually coordinated response .

Advantages of the systems and platforms described herein allow worksite managers to monitor the real time condition of the working environment. The platform comprising various modules to monitor all the aspects of the worksite can predict the potential damages and risks e.g. risks to safety security health breakdown SLA quality costs etc. . With an alarm and alerting system on the platform key personnel such as managers operators workers administrators government officers etc and automated devices can respond to the potential damages in a shortest time frame. Moreover the platform can provide feedbacks on quality control resource allocation and performance indication. The enterprises using the platform can reduce costs and enhance operating performance.

In one aspect disclosed herein is a computing platform for worksite monitoring the platform comprising a one or more sensing devices installed on one or more objects on a worksite wherein each of the one or more sensing devices comprises one or more sensors and a signal acquisition module configured to read sensing signals from the one or more sensors b a server with a server processor configured to provide a server user with a server application wherein the server application comprises a contextual data engine an anti collision module a risk management module and an operation resources planning module and c a mobile device with a mobile processor configured to provide a mobile user with a mobile application. In some embodiments each of the one or more sensing devices further comprises an embedded processor and an embedded operating system comprising an embedded multi application platform. In some embodiments each of the one or more sensing devices further comprises a data storage storing the sensing signals. In some embodiments each of the one or more sensing devices further comprises a command and control module configured to control the one or more objects. In some embodiments each of the sensing devices further comprises an embedded human machine interface HMI . In some embodiments each of the one or more sensing devices further comprises an embedded actionable data server. In some embodiments each of the one or more sensing devices further comprises a communication module configured to 1 transmit the sensing signals to the server and b receive instruction signals from the server. In some embodiments each of the instruction signals comprises a control on an object. In some embodiments each of the sensing signals comprises information of an object on the worksite the information comprising one or more of a location a direction a rotation angle a rotation speed a speed an acceleration an angular acceleration a lifting angle a pressure a temperature a concentration a force a torque a stability and a balance. In some embodiments the one or more sensing devices comprise one or more of one or more video cameras one or more sound recorders one or more global positioning systems and one or more weather stations. In some embodiments the one or more sensors comprise one or more of the following one or more position sensors one or more RF tags one or more GPS tracking units one or more wind speed sensors wind direction sensors one or more temperature sensors one or more rain sensors one or more snow sensors one or more liquid sensors one or more gas sensors one or more carbon dioxide sensors one or more carbon monoxide sensors one or more oxygen sensors one or more motion sensors one or more speed sensors one or more acceleration sensors one or more pressure sensors one or more torque sensors one or more force sensors one or more load sensors one or more electric current sensors one or more electric voltage sensors one or more stability sensor and one or more balance sensors. In some embodiments the contextual data engine is configured to analyze the sensing signals to track locations of the one or more objects. In some embodiments the contextual data engine is configured to record operation logs of the one or more objects. In some embodiments the contextual data engine is configured to record maintenance performed on the one or more objects. In some embodiments the contextual data engine is configured to infer operational context of the one or more objects and of the worksite. In some embodiments the anti collision module is configured to predict a collision between two or more objects. In some embodiments the anti collision module is configured to identify and track the locations of workers on the worksite. In some embodiments the anti collision module is configured to monitor a pediatrician collision. In some embodiments the operation resources planning module is configured to record skills of workers on the worksite. In some embodiments the operation resources planning module is configured to track materials or products in a logistic chain. In some embodiments the operation resources planning module is configured to control access to one or more of the following the worksite the one or more objects the one or more sensing devices. In some embodiments the operation resources planning module is configured to monitor a status of a task. In some embodiments the operation resources planning module is configured to evaluate a status or performance of a project. In some embodiments the operation resources planning module is configured to recommend resource allocation. In some embodiments the operation resources planning module is configured to monitor energy consumption. In some embodiments the operation resources planning module is configured to monitor a usage of an asset. In some embodiments the operation resources planning module is configured to allow the server user to set up one or more operation rules of the worksite. In some embodiments the one or more operation rules comprise one or more of the following a compliance with a law a safety rule a security rule a health rule a traffic rule a transportation rule a collision rule an object movement rule a risk management rule and a rescue rule. In some embodiments the risk management module is configured to produce an alert when an operation rule is violated. In some embodiments the risk management module is configured to monitor a health condition of workers on the worksite. In some embodiments the risk management module is configured to contact a health care provider when a risk occurs. In some embodiments the server application further comprises an interface to allow the server user to navigate the worksite on a display of the server. In some embodiments the mobile application comprises a software module configured to display a real time condition of the worksite. In some embodiments the real time condition comprises one or more of a map of the worksite a scene of the worksite an operation zone of the one or more objects a predicted movement of the one or more objects a predicted location of the one or more objects a weather condition a workforce condition and a supply chain condition. In some embodiments the mobile application comprises a software module configured to receive an alert from the server application and generate an alarm to the mobile user. In some embodiments the platform further comprises a cloud storage comprising a a software module configured to synchronize the sensing signals across the one or more sensing devices the server and the mobile device and b a software module configured to replicate the sensing signals in the cloud storage. In some embodiments the worksite comprises one or more of a construction site an airport a factory a port a mining site a nuclear plant a power plant a shipyard a building an air craft a battle zone a freeway a road a school a disaster area and an aerospace. In some embodiments the one or more objects comprise one or more of one or more vehicles one or more cranes one or more aircrafts one or more cargo one or more machines one or more freights one or more assets one or more raw materials one or more gates one or more heavy equipments one or more power plants one or more buildings and one or more tractors.

In another aspect disclosed herein is a computing system for worksite monitoring comprising a one or more sensing devices installed on one or more objects on a worksite b a server comprising a server processor and an operating system wherein the server is coupled to the one or more sensing devices and is configured to provide a server application the server application comprising a contextual data engine an anti collision module a risk management module and an operation resources planning module. In some embodiments the one or more sensing devices comprise one or more of one or more video cameras one or more sound recorders one or more global positioning systems and one or more weather stations. In some embodiments the one or more sensing devices comprise one or more of the following one or more position sensors one or more RF tags one or more GPS tracking units one or more wind speed sensors wind direction sensors one or more temperature sensors one or more rain sensors one or more snow sensors one or more liquid sensors one or more gas sensors one or more carbon dioxide sensors one or more carbon monoxide sensors one or more oxygen sensors one or more motion sensors one or more speed sensors one or more acceleration sensors one or more pressure sensors one or more torque sensors one or more force sensors one or more load sensors one or more electric current sensors one or more electric voltage sensors one or more stability sensor and one or more balance sensors. In some embodiments the contextual data engine is configured to receive sensing signals from the one or more sensing devices and analyze the sensing signals to track locations of the one or more objects. In some embodiments the contextual data engine is configured to record operation logs of the one or more objects. In some embodiments the contextual data engine is configured to record maintenance performed on the one or more objects. In some embodiments the contextual data engine is configured to infer operational context of the one or more objects and of the worksite. In some embodiments the anti collision module is configured to predict a collision between two or more objects. In some embodiments the anti collision module is configured to identify and track the locations of workers on the worksite. In some embodiments the anti collision module is configured to monitor a pediatrician collision. In some embodiments the operation resources planning module is configured to record skills of workers on the worksite. In some embodiments the operation resources planning module is configured to track materials or products in a logistic chain. In some embodiments the operation resources planning module is configured to control access to one or more of the following the worksite the one or more objects the one or more sensing devices. In some embodiments the operation resources planning module is configured to monitor a status of a task. In some embodiments the operation resources planning module is configured to evaluate a status or performance of a project. In some embodiments the operation resources planning module is configured to recommend resource allocation. In some embodiments the operation resources planning module is configured to monitor energy consumption. In some embodiments the operation resources planning module is configured to monitor a usage of an asset. In some embodiments the operation resources planning module is configured to allow the server user to set up one or more operation rules of the worksite. In some embodiments the one or more operation rules comprise one or more of the following a compliance with a law a safety rule a security rule a health rule a traffic rule a transportation rule a collision rule an object movement rule a risk management rule and a rescue rule. In some embodiments the risk management module is configured to produce an alert when an operation rule is violated. In some embodiments the risk management module is configured to monitor a health condition of workers on the worksite. In some embodiments the risk management module is configured to contact a health care provider when a risk occurs. In some embodiments the server application further comprises an interface to allow a server user to navigate the worksite on a display of the server.

In another aspect described herein are one or more sensing and control devices installed on one or more objects on a worksite wherein each sensing device comprises a computing processor an embedded operating system one or more sensors one or more controllers e.g. actioners actuators etc. a data storage a command and control module an embedded human machine interface HMI for operators and workers e.g. a LCD touchscreen audio interface voice command system etc. an embedded actionable data server for real time data collection remote control and or remote applications services an embedded multi application platform a signal acquisition module configured to read and store signals from the sensors wherein the signals comprise a location a data synchronization module for replication of data to a worksite server and re synchronization in the event of power loss and a communication module configured to transmit and or receive signals to and or from a server application the sensors and or the controllers.

In another aspect described herein are servers including one or more server processors configured to provide a server user with the server application comprising a software module configured to allow the server user to set up a plurality of operation rules of the worksite a software module configured to receive the signals from the sensing devices and track the locations of the objects on the worksite a software module configured to predict a collision between two or more objects and a software module configured to produce an alert when an operation rule is violated.

In another aspect described herein are mobile devices with one or more mobile processors configured to provide a mobile user with a mobile application comprising a software module configured to display a predicted collision and or a violation on the worksite and a software module configured to receive the alert from the server application and generate an alarm 

In another aspect described herein is cloud storage comprising a software module configured to synchronize the signals and data among the sensing devices the server and the mobile device and a software module configured to replicate the signals and data in the cloud storage.

In some embodiments the systems and platforms described herein comprise a plurality of server levels. In a particular embodiment the systems and platforms described herein comprise three server levels. For example in various embodiments the server levels include embedded servers in the objects site servers and cloud servers. In further embodiments each modular application described herein optionally runs at different levels exclusive collaborative or simultaneous .

In some embodiments the systems and platforms described herein comprise a plurality of storage levels. In a particular embodiment the systems and platforms described herein comprise three storage levels. For example in various embodiments the storage levels include embedded storage site server storage and cloud storage. In further embodiments embedded data are replicated in the site server and all worksite data are replicated on the cloud storage. An advantage of this arrangement is that at the main time the worksite instance in the cloud storage is replicated in the site storage then if there is a loss of the internet connectivity between the site and the cloud the local operations modules continue to work without stopping the production line. Another advantage of this arrangement is that the embedded object instance in the worksite storage is replicated in the embedded storage as well then if there is a loss of the connectivity between the object and the site server the embedded operations applications continue to work.

Safety security and health on a worksite e.g. constructions airports shipyards factories and mines are critical factors to maintain a quality working environment. Existing systems of monitoring worksites largely focus on a single aspect of safety security or health rather than integrating all pieces of information on a single platform. Furthermore the lack of the integration cannot predict the potential damages and collisions leading to disasters taking place. Therefore a new system is necessary to avoid the damages and it in turn hopefully can enhance the quality of working environment.

Advantages of the systems and platforms allow worksite managers to monitor the real time condition of the working environment. The platform comprising various modules to monitor all the aspects of the worksite can predict the potential damages. With an alarm system on the platform the managers and workers can respond to the potential damages in a shortest time frame. Moreover the platform can provide feedbacks on quality control resource allocation and performance indication. The enterprises using the platform can reduce costs and enhance operating performance.

Described herein in various embodiments is a platform comprising a one or more sensing devices installed on one or more objects on a worksite wherein each sensing device comprises a computing processor an embedded operating system one or more sensors a data storage a signal acquisition module configured to read and store signals from the sensors wherein the signals comprise a location and a communication module configured to transmit the signals to a server application b a server with a server processor configured to provide a server user with the server application comprising i a module to allow the server user to set up a plurality of operation rules of the worksite ii a module to receive the signals from the sensing devices and track the locations of the objects on the worksite iii a module to predict a collision between two or more objects and iv a module to produce an alert when an operation rule is violated c a mobile device with a mobile processor configured to provide a mobile user with a mobile application comprising a module to display a real time condition of the worksite and a module to receive the alert from the server application and generate an alarm d a cloud storage comprising i a module to synchronize the signals and data among the sensing devices the server and the mobile device and ii a module to replicate the signals and data in the cloud storage. The modules in the platform may be implemented by software hardware or combination of them.

Also described herein in various embodiments is a collision prediction system comprising a one or more sensing devices installed on one or more objects on a worksite wherein each sensing device includes a computing processor an embedded operating system one or more sensors a data storage a signal acquisition module configured to read and store signals from the sensors wherein the signals comprise a location and a communication module configured to transmit the signals to a server application b a server with a server processor configured to provide a server user with the server application comprising i a module to allow the server user to set up a plurality of operation rules of the worksite ii a module to receive the signals from the sensing devices and track the locations of the objects on the worksite iii a module to predict a collision between two or more objects and iv a module to produce an alert when an operation rule is violated c a mobile device with a mobile processor configured to provide a mobile user with a mobile application comprising i a module to display the predicted collision of the worksite and ii a module to receive the alert from the server application and generate an alarm. The modules in the platform may be implemented by software hardware or combination of them.

Also described herein in various embodiments is a collision emergency response system comprising a one or more sensing devices installed on one or more objects on a worksite wherein each sensing device comprises a computing processor an embedded operating system one or more sensors a data storage a signal acquisition module configured to read and store signals from the sensors wherein the signals comprise a location and a communication module configured to transmit the signals to a server application b a server with a server processor configured to provide a server user with the server application comprising i a module to allow the server user to set up a plurality of operation rules of the worksite and ii a module to detect a violation in one or more of the operation rules and produce an alert c a mobile device with a mobile processor configured to provide a mobile user with a mobile application comprising i a module to display the violation on the worksite and ii a module to receive the alert from the server application and generate an alarm and d a cloud storage comprising i a module to synchronize the signals and data among the sensing devices the server and the mobile device and ii a module to replicate the signals and data in the cloud storage. The modules in the platform may be implemented by software hardware or combination of them.

Unless otherwise defined all technical terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. As used in this specification and the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Any reference to or herein is intended to encompass and or unless otherwise stated.

In some embodiments the platforms systems software applications media and methods described herein include a worksite. Non limiting examples of worksites include construction sites airports factories ports mining sites nuclear plants power plant shipyards buildings aircrafts battle zones freeways roads schools disaster areas and aerospace. In some embodiments the platform monitors a single worksite. In some cases the platform monitors two or more worksites. When there are two or more worksites monitored by the platform the worksites may be in the same type or in different types. For example a construction company simultaneously monitors two constructions sites in different cities a government agency may simultaneously monitor the maintenance progresses on a freeway and on a city road.

In some embodiments the platforms systems software applications media and methods described herein include a sensing device or use of the same. A sensing device may be installed in an object on a worksite wherein each sensing device comprises one or more of the following a computing processor an embedded operating system one or more sensors a data storage a signal acquisition module configured to read and store signals from the sensors and a communication module configured to transmit the signals to a server application. The signals recorded by a sensor may comprise a location. In some cases the signals may comprise a physical quantity and or a chemical quantity. Non limiting examples of sensing devices include cameras video cameras global positioning systems weather stations carbon monoxide detectors smoke detectors light detectors and pressure sensing systems.

A sensing device is coupled to one or more sensors. Two or more sensors coupled with a sensing device may be a single type or different types. Non limiting examples of sensors include RF tags light sensors electromagnetic wave sensors wind sensors rain sensors snow sensors soil sensors water sensors liquid sensors gas sensors carbon dioxide sensors carbon monoxide sensors oxygen sensors chemical sensors toxicity sensors acid sensors alkaline sensors speed sensors temperature sensors pressure sensors load sensors weight sensors torque sensors force sensors electric current sensors and voltage sensors.

In some embodiments one or more sensing devices are coupled with one or more other modules in the platforms systems software applications media and methods. The sensing devices transmit the collected signals to the other modules and the modules analyze the signals to control the objects on the worksites to achieve anti collision. More details are described below.

In some embodiments the platforms systems software applications media and methods described herein include an operation rule setting up an operation rule and or use of the same. An operation rule may be a rule in compliance with a law or multiple laws. Operation rules may cover different aspects of a worksite non limiting examples include safety security health traffic transportation collision and movement. An operation rule may contain a description associated with one or more quantities. By way of non limiting examples a heavy truck should keep a distance of at least 10 meters away the previous vehicle a worker should take a one hour break after working for four hours in a row a concentration of carbon monoxide should be lower than 1 ppm the operating zone of a crane should not overlap with that of another crane.

In some embodiments the platforms systems software applications media and methods described herein include one or more objects present on the worksite. Non limiting examples of objects include people animals vehicles ships cranes aircrafts cargos machines freights assets materials gates heavy equipments tractors power plants factories and buildings. In further embodiments an object on a worksite is installed or attached with one or more sensing devices. Coupling an object with one or more sensing devices allows the sensing devices to reveal the condition based on physical chemical measurements such as locations latitude altitude temperature speed velocity acceleration pressure electrical properties current voltage torque force etc of the object. For example a sensing device determines the location of the object another can measure the load of the object and another can reveal the operating temperature of the object.

In some embodiments the platforms systems software applications media and methods described herein include displaying a worksite condition. Displaying the worksite condition is made on a digital screen. The screen is coupled to any kinds of digital processing devices e.g. mobile phones wearable electronics devices portable computers and servers. In some embodiments the display of the worksite condition shows one or more of the following non limiting examples a map of the worksite a scene of the worksite an operation zone of an object a predicted movement of an object a predicted location of an object a predicted event a weather condition a workforce condition an objects condition e.g. asset maintenance etc. supply chain and a job or task condition e.g. status quality level SLA costs etc. .

In some embodiments the display comprises an interactive interface to view various types of information. The interactive interface allows the user to use finger touch or a computer peripheral e.g. mouse keyboard microphone touch pen etc to interact with the display. In further embodiments the interactive interface allows the user to locally or remotely control a worksite object.

In a particular example operation rules are configured in a predictive anti collision module. In another particular example a worksite condition is collision potential which is monitored and displayed by a predictive anti collision module.

A predictive anti collision module for example monitors objects such as equipment and vehicles on a worksite to predict collisions. In some embodiments the predictive anti collision module is operates dynamically by integrating motion sensors sensing e.g. positions speeds acceleration stability balance etc. weather conditions e.g. wind speed wind direction etc. and equipment loads and torques. In further embodiments the predictive anti collision module includes an anti balancing system.

In some embodiments the predictive anti collision module described herein integrates an auto pilot feature which over rides operator commands and takes control to avoid automatically the collision in case of critical risk. In further embodiments the auto pilot uses the embedded controller interface for this purpose. In some embodiments the anti collision module optionally run in the embedded level at the site server or cloud level. In further embodiments multiple anti collision modules optionally run in parallel for redundancy purpose in view to match high safety standards.

In some embodiments the platforms systems software applications media and methods described herein include a server hosting a server application or use of the same. The server application may contain one or more of the following modules a module to allow the server user to set up a plurality of operation rules of the worksite a module to receive the signals from the sensing devices and track the locations of the objects on the worksite a module to predict a collision between two or more objects a module to produce an alert when an operation rule is violated a module to identify and track the locations of people on the worksite a module to record the skills of people on the worksite a module to monitor the health condition of people on the worksite a module to record the operation logs of the objects a module to record the maintenance performed on the objects a module to track materials in a logistics chain a module to track products in a logistics chain a module to control access to the worksite a module to control access to a part of the worksite a module to monitor the status of a task a module to evaluate the performance of a project a module to monitor the status of a project a module to evaluate the performance of a project a module to recommend resource allocation a module to monitor energy consumption a module to monitor pediatrician collision a module to navigate the worksite a module to monitor the usage of an asset a module to integrate enterprise resource planning.

The embodied modules on a platform may further allow real time access to the data associated with the modules. The data may be password protected or may be encrypted. The access may be limited to the users of the platforms. Sometimes the access may be allowed for a third party. The access to the data may be made through a wireless communication network.

In some embodiments the platforms systems software applications media and methods include a cloud storage or use of the same. The cloud storage may be on the same as the server hosting the server application or it may be on another independent server. The cloud storage may be associated with a module to synchronize the signals and data among the sensing devices the server and the mobile device. Another possible module associated with the cloud storage is to replicate the signals and data in the cloud storage. The server application may comprise these modules associated with cloud storage or these modules are independent of the server application.

In some embodiments the platforms systems software applications media and methods include a module for operation resource planning or use of the same. The operation resource planning module is coupled with sensing devices to collect the signals measured by the sensing devices. Once the signals are collected the module analyzes the signals to identify a resource need. Non limiting examples of the resource comprises staffing human workforce allocating communication channel arranging wireless networking among sensing devices and worksite objects allocating health medical resources monitoring worksite assets enhancing security controlling access to assets and providing real time customer services.

In some embodiments the resource is across different industries e.g. construction oil gas mining airports transportation ports health care financial banking recycling and waste management. For instance when a construction site is predicted to be short of concrete the resource planning module can measure the demand and automate contacting a supplier in the mining industry to deliver more concrete to the construction site.

In some embodiments the platforms systems software applications media and methods include a contextual data engine or use of the same. The contextual data engine is built and operated on an operating system. The contextual data engine converges database and application platform capabilities in memory to transform transactions analytics text analysis predictive and spatial processing so businesses can operate in real time.

In some embodiments the contextual data engine comprises an interface coupled to sensing devices to facilitate sensing and control.

In some embodiments the contextual data engine comprises safety integrity level to enhance data exchange security.

In some embodiments the contextual data engine comprises complex even processing CEP . The contextual data engine is coupled to sensing devices to receive and analyze streams of signals. When the signals are received by the contextual data engine the engine infers what events are happening and derives a conclusion from the signals. In some embodiments the contextual data engine combines signals from multiple sources e.g. multiple temporal signals from a single sensing device and signals from multiple sensing devices to infer events or patterns which are then concluded with a more meaningful event e.g. a potential collision a weather impact a possible disaster a resource shortage an opportunity a threat etc . The merit of the contextual data engine allows the worksite to respond to the events as fast as possible.

In some embodiments the contextual data engine comprises a synchronization module. The synchronization module synchronizes all the events across the objects and sensing devices on the worksite or even across the resource providers. For instance a collision is predicted to take place and the collision alarm is synchronized to cloud storage server application police office fire station and hospital. Meanwhile synchronization module configures some other objects to stop working in order to allow fire trucks and ambulances to enter the worksite and access the assets.

In some embodiments the contextual data engine comprises a communication module. The communication module relies on various protocols such as peer to peer P2P . Alternatively the communication module comprises mobile device management MDM as sensing device and objects on the worksite exchange signals via wireless networking. By controlling and protecting the signals data and configuration settings for all mobile devices in the network MDM reduces costs induced by human support and business risks.

In some embodiments the platforms systems software applications media and methods described herein include a digital processing device or use of the same. In further embodiments the digital processing device includes one or more hardware central processing units CPU that carry out the device s functions. In still further embodiments the digital processing device further comprises an operating system configured to perform executable instructions. In some embodiments the digital processing device is optionally connected a computer network. In further embodiments the digital processing device is optionally connected to the Internet such that it accesses the World Wide Web. In still further embodiments the digital processing device is optionally connected to a cloud computing infrastructure. In other embodiments the digital processing device is optionally connected to an intranet. In other embodiments the digital processing device is optionally connected to a data storage device.

In accordance with the description herein suitable digital processing devices include by way of non limiting examples server computers desktop computers laptop computers notebook computers sub notebook computers netbook computers netpad computers set top computers handheld computers Internet appliances mobile smartphones tablet computers personal digital assistants video game consoles and vehicles. Those of skill in the art will recognize that many smartphones are suitable for use in the system described herein. Those of skill in the art will also recognize that select televisions video players and digital music players with optional computer network connectivity are suitable for use in the system described herein. Suitable tablet computers include those with booklet slate and convertible configurations known to those of skill in the art.

In some embodiments the digital processing device includes an operating system configured to perform executable instructions. The operating system is for example software including programs and data which manages the device s hardware and provides services for execution of applications. Those of skill in the art will recognize that suitable server operating systems include by way of non limiting examples FreeBSD OpenBSD NetBSD Linux Apple Mac OS X Server Oracle Solaris Windows Server and Novell NetWare . Those of skill in the art will recognize that suitable personal computer operating systems include by way of non limiting examples Microsoft Windows Apple Mac OS X UNIX and UNIX like operating systems such as GNU Linux . In some embodiments the operating system is provided by cloud computing. Those of skill in the art will also recognize that suitable mobile smart phone operating systems include by way of non limiting examples Nokia Symbian OS Apple iOS Research In Motion BlackBerry OS Google Android Microsoft Windows Phone OS Microsoft Windows Mobile OS Linux and Palm WebOS .

In some embodiments the device includes a storage and or memory device. The storage and or memory device is one or more physical apparatuses used to store data or programs on a temporary or permanent basis. In some embodiments the device is volatile memory and requires power to maintain stored information. In some embodiments the device is non volatile memory and retains stored information when the digital processing device is not powered. In further embodiments the non volatile memory comprises flash memory. In some embodiments the non volatile memory comprises dynamic random access memory DRAM . In some embodiments the non volatile memory comprises ferroelectric random access memory FRAM . In some embodiments the non volatile memory comprises phase change random access memory PRAM . In other embodiments the device is a storage device including by way of non limiting examples CD ROMs DVDs flash memory devices magnetic disk drives magnetic tapes drives optical disk drives and cloud computing based storage. In further embodiments the storage and or memory device is a combination of devices such as those disclosed herein.

In some embodiments the digital processing device includes a display to send visual information to a user. In some embodiments the display is a cathode ray tube CRT . In some embodiments the display is a liquid crystal display LCD . In further embodiments the display is a thin film transistor liquid crystal display TFT LCD . In some embodiments the display is an organic light emitting diode OLED display. In various further embodiments on OLED display is a passive matrix OLED PMOLED or active matrix OLED AMOLED display. In some embodiments the display is a plasma display. In other embodiments the display is a video projector. In still further embodiments the display is a combination of devices such as those disclosed herein.

In some embodiments the digital processing device includes an input device to receive information from a user. In some embodiments the input device is a keyboard. In some embodiments the input device is a pointing device including by way of non limiting examples a mouse trackball track pad joystick game controller or stylus. In some embodiments the input device is a touch screen or a multi touch screen. In other embodiments the input device is a microphone to capture voice or other sound input. In other embodiments the input device is a video camera to capture motion or visual input. In still further embodiments the input device is a combination of devices such as those disclosed herein.

In some embodiments the platforms systems software applications media and methods disclosed herein include one or more non transitory computer readable storage media encoded with a program including instructions executable by the operating system of an optionally networked digital processing device. In further embodiments a computer readable storage medium is a tangible component of a digital processing device. In still further embodiments a computer readable storage medium is optionally removable from a digital processing device. In some embodiments a computer readable storage medium includes by way of non limiting examples CD ROMs DVDs flash memory devices solid state memory magnetic disk drives magnetic tape drives optical disk drives cloud computing systems and services and the like. In some cases the program and instructions are permanently substantially permanently semi permanently or non transitorily encoded on the media.

In some embodiments the platforms systems software applications media and methods disclosed herein include at least one computer program or use of the same. A computer program includes a sequence of instructions executable in the digital processing device s CPU written to perform a specified task. Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. In light of the disclosure provided herein those of skill in the art will recognize that a computer program may be written in various versions of various languages.

The functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments. In some embodiments a computer program comprises one sequence of instructions. In some embodiments a computer program comprises a plurality of sequences of instructions. In some embodiments a computer program is provided from one location. In other embodiments a computer program is provided from a plurality of locations. In various embodiments a computer program includes one or more software modules. In various embodiments a computer program includes in part or in whole one or more web applications one or more mobile applications one or more standalone applications one or more web browser plug ins extensions add ins or add ons or combinations thereof.

In some embodiments a computer program includes a web application. In light of the disclosure provided herein those of skill in the art will recognize that a web application in various embodiments utilizes one or more software frameworks and one or more database systems. In some embodiments a web application is created upon a software framework such as Microsoft .NET or Ruby on Rails RoR . In some embodiments a web application utilizes one or more database systems including by way of non limiting examples relational non relational object oriented associative and XML database systems. In further embodiments suitable relational database systems include by way of non limiting examples Microsoft SQL Server mySQL and Oracle . Those of skill in the art will also recognize that a web application in various embodiments is written in one or more versions of one or more languages. A web application may be written in one or more markup languages presentation definition languages client side scripting languages server side coding languages database query languages or combinations thereof. In some embodiments a web application is written to some extent in a markup language such as Hypertext Markup Language HTML Extensible Hypertext Markup Language XHTML or eXtensible Markup Language XML . In some embodiments a web application is written to some extent in a presentation definition language such as Cascading Style Sheets CSS . In some embodiments a web application is written to some extent in a client side scripting language such as Asynchronous Javascript and XML AJAX Flash Actionscript Javascript or Silverlight . In some embodiments a web application is written to some extent in a server side coding language such as Active Server Pages ASP ColdFusion Perl Java JavaServer Pages JSP Hypertext Preprocessor PHP Python Ruby Tcl Smalltalk WebDNA or Groovy. In some embodiments a web application is written to some extent in a database query language such as Structured Query Language SQL . In some embodiments a web application integrates enterprise server products such as IBM Lotus Domino . In some embodiments a web application includes a media player element. In various further embodiments a media player element utilizes one or more of many suitable multimedia technologies including by way of non limiting examples Adobe Flash HTML 5 Apple QuickTime Microsoft Silverlight Java and Unity

In some embodiments a computer program includes a standalone application which is a program that is run as an independent computer process not an add on to an existing process e.g. not a plug in. Those of skill in the art will recognize that standalone applications are often compiled. A compiler is a computer program s that transforms source code written in a programming language into binary object code such as assembly language or machine code. Suitable compiled programming languages include by way of non limiting examples C C Objective C COBOL Delphi Eiffel Java Lisp Python Visual Basic and VB .NET or combinations thereof. Compilation is often performed at least in part to create an executable program. In some embodiments a computer program includes one or more executable complied applications.

In some embodiments the platforms systems software applications media and methods disclosed herein include software server and or database modules or use of the same. In view of the disclosure provided herein software modules are created by techniques known to those of skill in the art using machines software and languages known to the art. The software modules disclosed herein are implemented in a multitude of ways. In various embodiments a software module comprises a file a section of code a programming object a programming structure or combinations thereof. In further various embodiments a software module comprises a plurality of files a plurality of sections of code a plurality of programming objects a plurality of programming structures or combinations thereof. In various embodiments the one or more software modules comprise by way of non limiting examples a web application a mobile application and a standalone application. In some embodiments software modules are in one computer program or application. In other embodiments software modules are in more than one computer program or application. In some embodiments software modules are hosted on one machine. In other embodiments software modules are hosted on more than one machine. In further embodiments software modules are hosted on cloud computing platforms. In some embodiments software modules are hosted on one or more machines in one location. In other embodiments software modules are hosted on one or more machines in more than one location.

In some embodiments the platforms systems software applications media and methods disclosed herein include one or more databases or use of the same. In view of the disclosure provided herein those of skill in the art will recognize that many databases are suitable for storage and retrieval of sensing signals operation rules and worksite operation data. In various embodiments suitable databases include by way of non limiting examples relational databases non relational databases object oriented databases object databases entity relationship model databases associative databases and XML databases. In some embodiments a database is internet based. In further embodiments a database is web based. In still further embodiments a database is cloud computing based. In other embodiments a database is based on one or more local computer storage devices.

The following illustrative examples are representative of embodiments of the software applications systems and methods described herein and are not meant to be limiting in any way. While preferred embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described herein it will be obvious to those skilled in the art that such embodiments are provided by way of example only. Numerous variations changes and substitutions will now occur to those skilled in the art without departing from the invention. It should be understood that various alternatives to the embodiments of the invention described herein may be employed in practicing the invention.

In the crane operator and the worksite manager were able to zoom into the load that a crane was carrying. With the video camera installed on the crane the monitor platform allowed the crane operator and the worksite manager to monitor the dimensions of the crane the location of the crane and the load carried by the crane.

In this example the contextual data engine comprises a synchronization SYNC module to synchronize all the events across the objects and sensing devices on the worksite or even across the resource providers. In addition the communication module comprised a mobile device management MDM module which managed scheduled controlled and protected the signals data and configuration settings for all mobile devices in the network. Last the engine comprised a communication module based on P2P protocol for exchanging signals and data between sensing devices and any platform components.

