---

title: System and method for controlling access to personal user data
abstract: Disclosed are system and methods for controlling access of a consumer to personal data of a user. An example method includes: collecting information about the consumer of personal data; comparing the collected information with one or more templates containing risk criteria to determine whether a risk is associated with the consumer; setting, based on the determined risk, consumer access parameters for access of the consumer to the personal information of the user; and controlling access of the consumer to the personal data of the user based on the set consumer access parameters.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09325715&OS=09325715&RS=09325715
owner: AO Kaspersky Lab
number: 09325715
owner_city: Moscow
owner_country: RU
publication_date: 20150528
---
This application claims benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 a d to a Russian Application No. 2015111426 filed on Mar. 31 2015 which is incorporated by reference herein.

The present disclosure relates generally the field of computer security and more specifically to systems and methods for controlling access of a consumer to personal data of a user.

At present services and applications are collecting a mass of personal information about the user behavior on the net and on the device data sets actions on the Internet location contacts with other users etc. . This is occurring in both a clear and clandestine manner and very often without awareness by the user of the data collection. Neither is the user aware of how the data collected is used afterwards or whether he can control this process.

Systems of centralized control of personal user information are being created to help the user exercise control over the use of his own personal data. These systems allow one to control the personal user data to determine and monitor the volume of personal information collected and saved such as a set of personal documents date of birth location passwords for authorization on other services history of actions on the Internet characteristic behavior patterns gender family status to determine the level of access by services to this information from total anonymity to a fully open profile and to carry out an authorization of services when accessing the personal user data. As an example of the functioning of such systems one can mention technologies such as MS Account Apple ID Google Account Mozilla Persona.

However the process of granting and revoking access rights to personal data is in no way automated and the user is forced to control this process by hand. For example patent application US20140143886A1 describes a system for control of personal data which lets the user from any given device manually revoke access rights to his personal data.

Disclosed are system and methods for controlling access of a consumer to personal data of a user. One technical result of the disclosed system and methods consists in an automated control of access to personal data of the user by changing the parameters of access to personal data as a function of risks associated with the consumer of personal data.

An example method for controlling access of a consumer to personal data of a user includes collecting information about the consumer of personal data comparing by a hardware processor the collected information with one or more templates containing risk criteria to determine whether a risk is associated with the consumer setting based on the determined risk by the hardware processor consumer access parameters for access of the consumer to the personal information of the user and controlling by the hardware processor access of the consumer to the personal data of the user based on the set consumer access parameters.

In one example aspect the received consumer data include at least one of parameters of the personal information consumer wherein the parameters comprise at least one of a consumer service price for the user a total price of consumer services provided to the user and a location of the server storing the personal information of the user statistics about the personal information consumer wherein the statistics comprise at least one of a number of user complaints over a time interval a number of a specific type of incidents per over a time interval a rating of the personal information consumer and a number of users using a service provided by the consumer notifications about the personal information consumer wherein the notifications comprise at least one of a notification from the consumer about server maintenance and a notification of broken connection to a customer server and security incident reports about the personal information consumer wherein the reports comprise at least one of a report of potential unauthorized access to a consumer server and a report of a personal data theft from the consumer.

In one example aspect the consumer data is received from at least one of an external or internal monitoring system a notification system a user security application and the consumer.

In one example aspect the set of templates includes at least one of a global set of templates and a local set of templates specific to the user.

In one example aspect the risk event is a political risk event a reputational risk event a financial risk event a security risk event or a legal risk event.

In one example aspect the setting of consumer access parameters includes at least one of changing consumer s time limits of access to the personal information of the user revoking consumer s access privileges to the personal information of the user granting consumer access privileges to the personal information of the user blocking consumer s access to the personal information of the user granting consumer access to the personal information of the user and rejecting services provided by the consumer.

In one example aspect each template includes a set of criteria wherein each criterion is assigned a numeric value based on the received consumer data and wherein the detecting whether a risk event exists includes at least one of comparing a linear function of criteria with a numeric threshold comparing a numeric function of criteria with a numeric threshold applying a neural network algorithm to the set of criteria and applying a fuzzy logic algorithm to the set of criteria.

In another aspect a example system for controlling access of a consumer to personal data of a user comprising an collection module executable on a hardware processor and configured to collect information about the consumer of personal data an template storage module configured to store a plurality of templates containing risk criteria an analysis module executable on the hardware processor and configured to compare the collected information with the one or more templates to determine whether a risk is associated with the consumer and an access control module executable on a hardware processor and configured to set based on the determined risk consumer access parameters for access of the consumer to the personal information of the user and control access of the consumer to the personal data of the user based on the set consumer access parameters.

In another aspect an example computer program product stored on a non transitory computer readable medium for controlling access of a consumer to personal data of a user the computer product including computer executable instructions for collecting information about the consumer of personal data comparing the collected information with one or more templates containing risk criteria to determine whether a risk is associated with the consumer setting based on the determined risk consumer access parameters for access of the consumer to the personal information of the user and controlling access of the consumer to the personal data of the user based on the set consumer access parameters.

The above simplified summary of example aspects serves to provide a basic understanding of the present disclosure. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated aspects and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all aspects nor delineate the scope of any or all aspects of the present disclosure. Its sole purpose is to present one or more aspects in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description of the disclosure that follows. To the accomplishment of the foregoing the one or more aspects of the present disclosure include the features described and particularly pointed out in the claims.

Example aspects are described herein in the context of a system method and computer program product for controlling access of a consumer of personal information to personal information of a user. Those of ordinary skill in the art will realize that the following description is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. Other aspects will readily suggest themselves to those skilled in the art having the benefit of this disclosure. Reference will now be made in detail to implementations of the example aspects as illustrated in the accompanying drawings. The same reference indicators will be used to the extent possible throughout the drawings and the following description to refer to the same or like items.

As used herein the term consumer of personal data the terms data and information will be used interchangeably herein may include a service an application or a device working with personal user data. A consumer of personal data may be connected to a system of centralized control of personal user data a description of which is provided below. An example of a consumer of personal data is Facebook or any other social network in which personal user data is processed. Control of the account of the user of any given social network can be done through a system of centralized control of personal user data. A consumer of personal data may be not only a social network or a cloud service in the near future as the Internet of Things is developed a concept of a computing network of physical objects including embedded technologies for interacting with each other or with the environment the consumers of personal data may be the physical objects in our environment including TV sets this has happed already consumer appliances cars furniture and clothing. The present disclosure allows controlling the usage of the personal user data by the consumers of personal data and to react promptly in response to various changes in the process.

The collection module transmits the information collected in regard to the consumers of personal data to the analysis module .

In one example aspect the analysis module performs an analysis of the information collected to identify risks associated with the consumers of personal data. Risks may be of different types political reputational financial security risks legal risks and so on. For example a user pays for a cloud or remote file repository service at one of the consumers of personal data. If the cost of the service increases and the user overlooks the notification from the consumer of personal data stating that the user should give up the service by a given date if he does not agree with the new cost then if the user does not give up the service he will be forced to pay the increased cost and thus incur a loss. In this regard the user incurs financial risks. Another example is the situation when the usage rules within an end user license agreement EULA with respect to one of the services provided to the user by the consumer of personal data change to the user s detriment for example to allow transmission of personal data to a third party which may contradict user s confidentiality requirements. The analysis module monitors information arriving from various sources and automatically make a decision for example to automatically give up the service being provided by the consumer of personal data when the corresponding risks are identified e.g. week data privacy . In one aspect the analysis module uses templates from the template storage module to identify risks. Each template from the template storage module consists of at least one risk criterion. In a particular instance the risk criterion is a feature a condition or a decision making rule for identifying the correspondence of something to given risk requirements. If the information collected with respect to a specific consumer of personal data corresponds to the requirements of the template then a risk is identified for this consumer of personal data.

In one example aspect the template storage module can include a global list of templates and a local list of templates. The templates from the global list of templates are configured to identify risks associated with groups of users for example a template identifying a risk of theft of payment information from personal data. The templates from the local list of templates are intended to identify risks in regard to a particular user. The templates from the local list of templates can be formed automatically from the user s requirements on the consumers of personal data or be specified by hand by the users. Such templates will apply only to a particular user. The templates may be grouped with respect to other properties for example in accordance with the type of risks identified by these templates.

In one example aspect the analysis module may sue templates with one or more criteria to identify risk by comparing the templates from the template storage module with the information obtained from the collection module . Thus a search is made for exact matches for example when processing the parameters of the consumers of personal data notifications in the context of the system of centralized control of personal data or messages from the monitoring system as well as any other data having a predetermined format and message structure. For example the country where the user resides introduces changes to the laws requiring all consumers of personal data to store the personal data of its citizens within the country. For this situation a template is generated from the global list of templates with a single criterion performing check of the parameters of the consumers of personal data pertaining to the country of storage of the personal data of users who are citizens of the country having introduced the changes in its laws. Based on the results of the check the corresponding users can be notified as to the presence of legal risks in regard to at least one consumer of personal data or instead the system for control of access to personal user data may automatically block access or revoke the access rights to personal data of the corresponding users until such time as the identified risk has been removed.

In another example aspect the analysis module may use heuristic analyzers to identify risks associated with the consumers of personal data by using templates consisting of sets of criteria linked by logical operators such as AND OR operators . Each criterion can be assigned either a Boolean value or a certain discrete value. For example a criterion identifying a certain message received from the monitoring systems will take on a value of 1 message identified or 0 no message. In another example aspect the criterion takes on a value from 0 to 10 where 0 means no incidents related to loss of personal user data by the consumer of personal data and 10 means frequent incidents. The criteria may include actions of users similar to the current user. For example if among the users with the same country of residence as the current user the number of rejections of PayPal electronic wallet services increases abruptly the current user can be at least informed of this fact. Each of the criteria may have a significance factor reflecting the importance of the criterion used. This factor is designated or hard coded. The use of this factor makes it possible to allow for differences in the significance of the criteria when identifying a risk. For templates consisting of more than one criterion one can use different methods of risk identification such as a neural net fuzzy logic summation with weighting of criteria. For example when using the method of summation with weighting of criteria for a template consisting of n criteria it is necessary to compute the total factor for fulfillment of the template by the following formula 1 1 2 2 3 3 . . . where 

Then to identify the risk corresponding to the particular template one can use a predetermined numeric threshold value chosen empirically for example which is compared to the calculated factor for fulfillment of the template. For example if the factor for fulfillment of the template exceeds a numeric threshold value then a risk corresponding to the template is deemed to have been identified and the analysis module will send appropriate instructions to the access control module .

In one example aspect the access control module is configured to change the consumer access parameters to personal data on the basis of the identified risks with respect to the consumer of personal data. The changing of the consumer access parameters to personal data includes but not limited to 

In one example aspect specific corresponding changes of access parameters may be assigned to specific templates. For example upon detecting a risk with a template A the access control module may block access to the personal user data for the consumer of personal data. The specific changes of access parameters may be assigned to a type of risk common to several templates. For example upon detecting a financial risk the access control module may automatically cancel the service provided by the consumer of personal data.

In another example aspect the changes of access parameters may depend on how much the factor for fulfillment of the template exceeds a numeric threshold value. For example if factor for fulfillment of the template exceeds a numeric threshold value by not more than 0.05 the access control module may notify the user about the identified risk without changing the access parameters automatically and in cases of greater excess revoke access rights to the personal user data.

The personal computer in turn includes a hard disk for reading and writing of data a magnetic disk drive for reading and writing on removable magnetic disks and an optical drive for reading and writing on removable optical disks such as CD ROM DVD ROM and other optical information media. The hard disk the magnetic disk drive and the optical drive are connected to the system bus across the hard disk interface the magnetic disk interface and the optical drive interface respectively. The drives and the corresponding computer information media are power independent modules for storage of computer instructions data structures program modules and other data of the personal computer .

The present disclosure provides the implementation of a system that uses a hard disk a removable magnetic disk and a removable optical disk but it should be understood that it is possible to employ other types of computer information media which are able to store data in a form readable by a computer solid state drives flash memory cards digital disks random access memory RAM and so on which are connected to the system bus via the controller .

The computer has a file system where the recorded operating system is kept and also additional program applications other program modules and program data . The user is able to enter commands and information into the personal computer by using input devices keyboard mouse . Other input devices not shown can be used microphone joystick game controller scanner and so on. Such input devices usually plug into the computer system through a serial port which in turn is connected to the system bus but they can be connected in other ways for example with the aid of a parallel port a game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus across an interface such as a video adapter . In addition to the monitor the personal computer can be equipped with other peripheral output devices not shown such as loudspeakers a printer and so on.

The personal computer is able to operate in a network environment using a network connection to one or more remote computers . The remote computer or computers are also personal computers or servers having the majority or all of the aforementioned elements in describing the nature of a personal computer as shown in . Other devices can also be present in the computer network such as routers network stations peer devices or other network nodes.

Network connections can form a local area computer network LAN such as a wired and or wireless network and a wide area computer network WAN . Such networks are used in corporate computer networks and internal company networks and they generally have access to the Internet. In LAN or WAN networks the personal computer is connected to the local area network across a network adapter or network interface . When networks are used the personal computer can employ a modem or other modules for providing communications with a wide area computer network such as the Internet. The modem which is an internal or external device is connected to the system bus by a serial port . It should be noted that the network connections are only examples and need not depict the exact configuration of the network i.e. in reality there are other ways of establishing a connection of one computer to another by technical communication modules such as Bluetooth.

In various aspects the systems and methods described herein may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the methods may be stored as one or more instructions or code on a non transitory computer readable medium. Computer readable medium includes data storage. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable medium can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM Flash memory or other types of electric magnetic or optical storage medium or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a processor of a general purpose computer.

In various aspects the systems and methods described in the present disclosure in terms of modules. The term module as used herein refers to a real world device component or arrangement of components implemented using hardware such as by an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or field programmable gate array FPGA for example or as a combination of hardware and software such as by a microprocessor system and a set of instructions to implement the module s functionality which while being executed transform the microprocessor system into a special purpose device. A module can also be implemented as a combination of the two with certain functions facilitated by hardware alone and other functions facilitated by a combination of hardware and software. In certain implementations at least a portion and in some cases all of a module can be executed on the processor of a general purpose computer such as the one described in greater detail in above . Accordingly each module can be realized in a variety of suitable configurations and should not be limited to any particular implementation exemplified herein.

In the interest of clarity not all of the routine features of the aspects are disclosed herein. It will be appreciated that in the development of any actual implementation of the present disclosure numerous implementation specific decisions must be made in order to achieve the developer s specific goals and that these specific goals will vary for different implementations and different developers. It will be appreciated that such a development effort might be complex and time consuming but would nevertheless be a routine undertaking of engineering for those of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of this disclosure.

Furthermore it is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology used herein is for the purpose of description and not of restriction such that the terminology or phraseology of the present specification is to be interpreted by the skilled in the art in light of the teachings and guidance presented herein in combination with the knowledge of the skilled in the relevant art s . Moreover it is not intended for any term in the specification or claims to be ascribed an uncommon or special meaning unless explicitly set forth as such.

The various aspects disclosed herein encompass present and future known equivalents to the known modules referred to herein by way of illustration. Moreover while aspects and applications have been shown and described it would be apparent to those skilled in the art having the benefit of this disclosure that many more modifications than mentioned above are possible without departing from the inventive concepts disclosed herein.

