---

title: System and method for remotely servicing an industrial printer
abstract: A method and system for remote servicing of an industrial printer includes obtaining, on a processor, sensor data that indicates values output by a sensors configured to measure physical phenomena related to a plurality of components of the industrial printer. Also obtained, on the processor, is parameter data that indicates values for parameters that indicate user settings for operation of the industrial printer. It is determined, on the processor, a service issue related to the industrial printer based on the sensor data and the parameter data, It is also determined, at least in part on the processor, an action to be performed on the industrial printer in response to the service issue. Furthermore; the action is caused to be initiated. In some embodiments, the action is initiated at one facility different from a facility where the industrial printer is located.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09524132&OS=09524132&RS=09524132
owner: Videojet Technologies, Inc.
number: 09524132
owner_city: Wood Dale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151006
---
Industrial printers such as continuous inkjet printers are used in production line printing to mark products or product packaging with information related to the product. These printers are sophisticated devices with many components. For example some components charge an ink mixture and other components apply electric fields in order to control movement of droplets of the makeup fluid to form desired patterns on the product or product packaging.

These printers may include various sensors to monitor sensor values associated with one or more components of the printer. For example sensors at the print head may be used to monitor the temperature at the print head or monitor the temperature of components of the print head. Temperatures exceeding a desired print head temperature may result in over consumption of solvent which directly affects the viscosity of the ink. To that end sensors may be provided at the ink supply of the printer to monitor the viscosity of the ink. In addition ink level sensors may be provided to monitor the level of ink remaining in an ink supply tank or an ink make up tank. Additionally a printer controller may be configured to generate alerts or warnings based sensor values generated by the sensors. In addition user interface data and event data is generated for some printers. For example user interface data may include print enable print disable data which may include the date and time a printer was enabled and then subsequently disabled by an operator or the date and time of one or more print head cleaning operations. Other data used by some industrial printers include values for user set parameters such as production line speed image height and width distance a substrate is from a print head and actual print head temperature.

It is here noted that sometimes operators do not timely react to alerts or warnings issued by a printer controller which could lead to component failures and printer downtime. Despite extant monitoring and data storage capabilities failures occur that result in production downtime to correct the problems. Therefore techniques are provided for remote servicing of an industrial printer.

In some embodiments various data are stored and communicated for automated use and proper attention. For example user interface data or event data or user set parameter values are stored for subsequent analysis and detection of current or potential issues. In some embodiments data derived relative to print head cleaning operations including the number of times a print head is cleaned over a specified time period or the number of quick clean operations that may have been performed over a specified time period are determined based on the data provided by an industrial printer.

In addition user set parameter values entered by a user during printer set up are stored and analyzed during printing operations. For example a printer may miss prints on products or packaging in the production line or the print on the product is stretched. In such cases the operator s may not have the technical expertise to evaluate the appropriateness of the values entered for the user set parameters or to determine the cause of the error and must contact the printer supplier to seek technical assistance which may include a supplier technician dispatched to the location of the printer

In a first set of embodiments a method includes obtaining on one or more processors sensor data that indicates multiple values output by corresponding sensors configured to measure physical phenomena related to multiple components of an industrial printer. The method also includes obtaining on the one or more processors parameter data that indicates multiple values for corresponding parameters that indicate user settings for operation of the industrial printer. The method further includes determining on the one or more processors a service issue related to the industrial printer based on the sensor data and the parameter data. Still further the method includes determining at least in part on the processor an action to be performed on the industrial printer in response to the service issue and causing the action to be initiated.

In some embodiments of the first set at least one of the one or more processors is at a remote site separated from a local site where the industrial printer is located. For example in some embodiments the remote site is separated from the local site by at least about one hour travel time. In some of these embodiments the local site is a facility of a first entity that uses the industrial printer and the remote site is a facility of a different second entity that services the industrial printer such as a manufacturer or supplier of the industrial printer.

In some embodiments of the first set determining the service issue includes determining the service issues based at least in part on historical data derived from sensor data and parameter data obtained over at least a month of time from a plurality of different industrial printers located at a plurality of different sites separated from the remote site.

In some embodiments of the first set determining the action to be performed includes determining that the action is replacement of a particular component of the plurality of components of the industrial printer. Then causing the action to be initiated includes causing a technician to be dispatched with the particular component from the remote site.

In some embodiments of the first set determining the action to be performed includes determining that a first value for a particular parameter of the plurality of parameters that indicate user settings should be changed to a different second value. Then causing the action to be initiated includes communicating from the remote site to the local site correction data that indicates the different second value and the particular parameter. In some of these embodiments communicating the correction data includes automatically sending a command to the industrial printer that causes the industrial printer to change the first value for the particular parameter to the different second value.

In some embodiments of the first set determining the action to be performed includes determining that a particular printer operation should be performed. Then causing the action to be initiated includes communicating from the remote site to the local site a command that automatically causes the particular printer operation to be performed.

In a second set of embodiments a system includes processors located at multiple facilities at corresponding different locations an industrial printer configured to apply ink to a package on an production line at a particular facility a communications network configured to support data communication among the plurality of processors and at least one memory including one or more sequences of instructions. The at least one memory and the one or more sequences of instructions are configured to with at least one processor cause the system to obtain sensor data that indicates a first plurality of values output by a first corresponding plurality of sensors configured to measure physical phenomena related to a plurality of components of the industrial printer. The system is also caused to obtain parameter data that indicates a second plurality of values for a second corresponding plurality of parameters that indicate user settings for operation of the industrial printer. Furthermore the system is caused to determine a service issue related to the industrial printer based on the sensor data and the parameter data. Still further the system is caused at least in part to determine an action to be performed on the industrial printer in response to the service issue and to cause the action to be initiated.

In other sets of embodiment a computer readable medium or apparatus is configured to perform one or more steps of the above method.

Still other aspects features and advantages of the invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description simply by illustrating a number of particular embodiments and implementations including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the invention. The invention is also capable of other and different embodiments and its several details can be modified in various obvious respects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

A method and apparatus are described for remote servicing of an industrial printer. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

Some embodiments of the invention are described below in the context of services provided by one entity e.g. a manufacturer re seller or retailer of industrial printers for many other entities e.g. different companies that are each customers and users of the industrial printer and that are remote from the service provider. However the invention is not limited to this context. For example in some embodiments one entity owns many printers at one or more facilities and the service is provided from a service center within one facility that has many printers by the same entity that uses the printers or the service is provided across several separated facilities that each has one or more industrial printers by the same entity that uses the printers. In some embodiments one entity provides a service center for many other entities that each have their own service center e.g. with a stock of spare parts or spare printers or one or more knowledgeable technicians or some combination.

Service call data indicates that in 70 of the cases a technician goes on site they do not replace a part. The techniques presented here allow tech support personnel to resolve most of these issues remotely. When they cannot it is expected that they can supply the technician with key information required for onsite resolution such as the part s that may be required ensuring a fix the first time. This will reduce downtime by automatically informing the customer maintenance team or the service provider technical support team or both of abnormal conditions and supplying the relevant information to address the service issue. The printer service provider personnel can connect to and monitor the printer to assess the issue and either provide corrective action remotely or dispatch an informed service technician with the correct parts to fix it right the first time. Real time performance is presented at a dashboard graphical user interface GUI to display how printers are performing and help service provider personnel to pinpoint areas for improvement in the coding process for setting user selectable options.

As shown in a print head cylinder is directed to the packages and is fed by a supply line from the body of the printer in which one or more ink and or makeup reservoirs are housed. The printer has a control panel such as graphical user interface GUI control panel to receive commands from a user. Some printers such as continuous ink printer model from Videojet Technologies Inc. of Wood Dale Ill. includes one or more processors configured to perform one or more software or firmware controlled processes. Such processors are often part of a chip set as described in more detail below with reference to .

In the illustrated embodiment the printer is configured to perform a printer service client process which allows control of the printer based on data exchanged with a remote processor as described in more detail with reference to some following figures. Often the remote processor is another chip set as described with reference to or a computer or computer systems as described in more detail below with reference to .

For example there may be various sensors for various components in the printhead ink system consumables and electronics. These sensors provide information on parameters related to the corresponding component. The combined information from the various sensors from various components provide unprecedented amounts of information on the status of various systems in the printer to allow a remote user to diagnose and predict potential issues such as faults warning or failures with the printer. The printhead may include a nozzle with sensor parameters such as the modulation voltage setpoint modulation current frequency temperature jet velocity setpoint actual velocity target pressure temperature compensated target pressure and actual pressure phase sensor parameters including selected phase phase rate of change profile and phase threshold EHT parameters such as voltage current trip value and of trip gutter parameters such as build up time since last clean warning level setting and presence of ink in gutter printhead heater parameters such as set temperature actual temperature and drive printhead cover parameters such as status on or off and time since last removed the status of various printhead valves open closed and time open or closed nozzle parameters such as nozzle size target velocity serial number manufacture date drop frequency print count run hours and drops deflected.

The ink system may include sensor parameters such as ink pump parameters such as pressure speed current and pump run hours ink reservoir parameters such as ink type ink expiry date fluid level ml and or print hours remaining and ink tank temperature make up reservoir parameters such as make up type expiry date makeup vacuum fluid level ml and or print hours remaining and makeup tank temp viscometer parameters such as target time to empty actual time to empty density viscosity and fill time ink quality parameters such as ink conductivity condenser parameters such as status on or off temperature and vent valve on or off filter damper module parameters such as ink filter pressure drop serial number manufacture date run hours and replacement date service module parameters such as flush pump speed flush pump current serial number manufacture date run hours replacement date and information for various service module valves open closed and time open or closed ink cartridge parameters such as ink type recommended make up type serial number manufacture date expiry date cartridge size fluid level run elapsed time time to cartridge replacement number of cartridge insertions viscosity coefficient s fluid density modulation algorithm numbers and cold start algorithm numbers make up cartridge parameters such as makeup type serial number manufacture date expiry date cartridge size fluid level run elapsed time time to cartridge replacement and number of insertions.

Other printer parameters include air filter parameters such as date last replaced run hours and replacement date fume gas sensors within the printer cabinet humidity sensors within the printer or for ambient measurement main control board parameters such as time and date electronics temperature HV voltage HV Current and the voltage of various other power supplies within the electronics.

Data is transferred from the sensors to a control process such as a control software program running on a processor of the industrial printer as indicated by dotted lines. The illustrated process presents a graphical user interface GUI for receiving user input including values for user set parameters or selections of a printer operation such as a quick clean operation or some combination. The values for the user set parameters are stored in a user settings data structure .

Based on the sensor data or the printer operations selected by the user or the user settings or some combination the control process is configured to issue a fault e.g. that a component is not working or is not working properly if appropriate or issue a warning e.g. that a sensor indicates a measured value is approaching a value outside the normal range for the corresponding component if appropriate. The fault or warning is displayed in a user interface such as GUI . Example faults and warnings include some or all those listed in Table 1 among others.

Faults and warnings are two kinds of events determined by the control process . Other events determined by the control process include user operations input through the user input and machine operations such as print cycles timestamps and other operations listed in Table 2.

Values for other variables used and maintained by the control process are called environmental variables. Example environmental variables include hardware firmware and software versions among others as listed in Table 3.

Values for the user set parameters are also used and maintained by the control process . Example user set parameters are listed in Table 4.

For a network including a plurality of industrial printers which may number in the thousands it can be seen that there is a huge amount of data that can be obtained including the above mentioned sensor data parameter data fault and warning events other events and environmental data. All of this data in combination can be considered historical data. Based on this historical data a computer system or processor can determine correlations between the data such as between environmental conditions and fault data. For example it may be determined that for printers in high temperature environments pump motors are more likely to overheat and have a shorter service life. These correlations can be used to determine the action to be performed on the printer.

The sensor data can be used potentially in combination with historical data to predict potential failures or other faults. Examples are shown in Table 5 below. For example if the speed of a pump is changing over time it may indicate that the pump is wearing and will fail at a certain point. As another example an increasing pressure drop across a filter indicates that maintenance on the filter may be required. By compiling historical data from hundreds or thousands of printers in the field under a variety of operating and environmental conditions correlations are made between the sensor data and the potential faults so that uptime can be maintained. For example it may be know that after the pressure drop across a filter reaches a certain value the printer will experience a failure 90 of the time within the next week. Therefore it is advisable to perform preventative maintenance on the filter before failure occurs. As another example for a fume gas sensor it may be determined that if the gas content e.g. solvent such as MEK in the printer cabinet exceeds a predetermined value that indicates that more likely than not there is a solvent leak in the printer and maintenance needs to be performed. It can be seen that a variety of such correlations may be deduced from sensor data and used to provide a variety of warnings or actions to be taken.

The system can also be used to monitor the operation of a printer in comparison to best practice operation data. The best practice operation data relates to predetermined processes for operating and or maintaining the printer. The best practice operation data may be determined from design data historical data from a plurality of printers or from other sources. For example it might be known that after the printer has been down more than 24 hours it is best to provide a clean start that cleans a portion of the print head before printing begins. If the user executes a quick start instead that action would not be in compliance with best practice data. As another example if the printer has a failure due to a high voltage trip the best practice may be to remove the print head cover clean the deflector plates with solvent and allow the parts to dry before going back to run mode. If the user does something different it would not be in compliance with best practices. The processor uses the parameter data the sensor data and the best practice data to determine compliance of the operation of the printer with the best practice data. As another example it is known that if too many clean starts are performed the printer will transfer a lot of solvent into the mix tank which will dilute the ink changing its viscosity and potentially negatively affecting the operation of the printer such as print quality. Thus if a user performs too many clean starts this would not be in compliance with best practice data. Using historical data from a variety of printers it may be determined from sensor data for example what the best practice operation is.

According to some embodiments the printer includes the printer service client process such as a control software program running on a processor of the industrial printer . The client process is configured to exchange data with a server process running on a different device and provides access to the data received by control process and also issues instructions to the control process e.g. by changing values in the user settings data structure or by issuing commands to which the control process responds such as a command issued by a user through the GUI or commands for an application programming interface API of the control process .

The client server model for interactions among separate processes is well known in the art. According to the client server model a client process sends a message including a request to a server process and the server process responds by providing a service. The server process may also return a message with a response to the client process. Often the client process and server process execute on different computer devices called hosts and communicate via a network using one or more protocols for network communications. The term server is conventionally used to refer to the process that provides the service or the host computer on which the process operates. Similarly the term client is conventionally used to refer to the process that makes the request or the host computer on which the process operates. As used herein the terms client and server refer to the processes rather than the host computers unless otherwise clear from the context. In addition the process performed by a server can be broken up to run as multiple processes on multiple hosts sometimes called tiers for reasons that include reliability scalability and redundancy but not limited to those reasons.

A remote servicing system for an industrial printer includes at least one industrial printer with a printer service client process and a printer service server process on a separate host in communication with the client e.g. through a local or wide area network or some combination. The server is configured to use at least the sensor measurements and the user set parameter values to determine any of at least a set of service related issues for the printer and to determine a remedial action for the service issue and initiate the remedial action e.g. by dispatching a service technician with the correct replacement component or by issuing a command to be executed by the printer or by changing one or more of the user set parameter values in data structure or some combination.

One or more significant advantages accrue if the server process is at a different location from the industrial printer. For example a printer service provider can reduce downtime at the production line facility of a customer using the printer by automatically informing the service provider s maintenance team or technical support of abnormal conditions and supplying the relevant information to address the problem. The service provider personnel can connect to and monitor the printer to assess the issue and either provide corrective action remotely or dispatch an informed service technician with the correct parts to fix it right the first time. Real time performance display presentations also called a dashboard hereinafter provide key data about the printer which can help the service provider pinpoint areas for improvement in the values of user set parameter.

Thus in some embodiments a system includes multiple processors an industrial printer configured to apply ink to a package on a production line a communications network configured to support data communication among the plurality of processors and at least one memory including one or more sequences of instructions. The at least one memory and the one or more sequences of instructions are configured to with at least one processor cause the system to obtain sensor data that indicates values output by corresponding sensors configured to measure physical phenomena related to one or more components of the industrial printer. The system is also caused to obtain parameter data that indicates values for corresponding user set parameters that indicate user settings for operation of the industrial printer. The system is also caused to determine a service issue related to the industrial printer based on the sensor data and the parameter data. Even further the system is caused to determine at least in part an action to be performed on the industrial printer in response to the service issue and cause the action to be initiated.

In some embodiments the multiple processors are located at multiple facilities at corresponding multiple different locations and the industrial printer is at a particular facility of the multiple facilities. is a block diagram that illustrates an example system for remote servicing of an industrial printer according to one embodiment. System includes at least one industrial printer at site such as one facility of a particular company and at least one printer servicing server e.g. printer servicing site server on site host or printer servicing central server on provider host at a remote service center at a different facility and at least one communications network e.g. site network or wide area network or servicing center network or some combination . A servicing operator interacts and controls the servers in some embodiments using an input device on the host such as site host or provider host or on a separate terminal such as site terminal connected to site host by the site network or the central terminal connected to the provider host by the servicing center network . In some embodiments the terminal used by the servicing operator is a mobile terminal such as a smart phone described below with reference to connected to the server host through a wide area network or in combination with one or more other networks such as site network or servicing center network .

According to an illustrated embodiment the system is implemented on one or more networks e.g. site network servicing center network and wide area networks as depicted in . The networks include the Internet that is configured to switch data packets among terminals using the Internet Protocol IP and any of a variety of application level protocols including the hypertext transfer protocol HTTP used to send World Wide Web pages between a World Wide Web client called a Web browser or simply a browser and a World Wide Web server. Connected to the networks are several processes operating on hosts including printer servicing client on printer and printer servicing site server on host and printer servicing central server on host . In some embodiments the terminals and connect to the servers or using Web browsers by exchanging HTTP data packets to transfer the GUI of the dashboard and other web page screens and transfer the operator response if any to the GUI of the dashboard and other screens.

In some embodiments site includes one or more other industrial printers and the printer servicing server e.g. server or server uses one or more databases e.g. printer servicing site database or printer servicing central database respectively or some combination to store data received from the printers and . In some embodiments system includes zero or more other facilities at other sites and the printer servicing central server is configured to service printers from all the sites and

Although processes equipment and data structures are depicted in and as integral blocks in a particular arrangement for purposes of illustration in other embodiments one or more processes or data structures or portions thereof are arranged in a different manner on the same or different hosts in one or more databases or are omitted or one or more different processes or data structures are included on the same or different hosts.

In step values for one or more environmental variables are determined. For example values for a serial number for the printer is determined. As another example the humidity of the ambient environment may be determined. In some embodiments the data includes data that indicates one or more optional components that can be included in a printer. In some embodiments the data includes data that indicates a network address for one or more processors on the printer such as an Internet Protocol IP address or a version 6 of the IP address IPv6 address . In some embodiments values for all the environmental variables listed in Table 4 are determined during step .

The values may be determined in any manner such as being received by a manual entry from a user in response to a prompt presented at a user interface such as a graphical user interface found included in the programming instructions retrieved from a data structure on the local host or another host on a network such as from one or more databases received in a message from another host either unsolicited or in response to a query or some combination.

In step the printer servicing client process discovers a printer servicing server on the network using any autodiscovery techniques known in the art. If several servers are discovered then one is selected e.g. the nearest server that involves the fewest hops between network nodes. For example printer servicing client discovers printer servicing site server if there is one or if not then printer servicing client discovers printer servicing central server .

In step it is determined whether the discovered server is off site. If so then in step encryption is enabled for all communications with the server. If not then encryption is not enabled. In some embodiments encryption is always enabled and steps and are omitted. Any suitable encryption or security protocol known in the art may be used.

In step a message is sent to the server which includes data that indicates the printer serial number and network address in order to allow the server to be configured to communicate with the printer. In other embodiments another identifier is used in lieu of the serial number to uniquely indicate the printer among all printers in the system.

In step it is determined whether there are any software updates e.g. by receiving an update from the server. If not then control passes to step . If so then in step the software update is installed and control passes then to step .

In step it is determined whether there are any changes to the user set parameter values called setting for convenience hereinafter such as those listed in Table 5 or changes to the values of any of the environmental variables such as those listed in Table 4. For example it is determined whether the user is inputting or has input a value for a user set parameter through the GUI . If not then control passes to step . If so then in step the current settings or at least the changes to the current settings and current values of the environmental variables or at least the changes to those such as the updated software version are reported to the printer servicing server along with the identifier for the printer such as the serial number. Control passes then to step .

In step it is determined whether it is time to make a measurement with one or more sensors such as those listed in Table 1. In various embodiments the measurement times are selected in a range from about 0.1 seconds to about 60 seconds. In some embodiments the measurement time depends on the sensor. For example it is determined to make a set of measurements every 5 seconds where the set includes at least a measurement from one of the sensors listed in Table 1. If not time to make a measurement then control passes to step . If so then in step a measurement from a sensor is made for one or more sensor and the values recorded locally. Control passes then to step .

In step it is determined whether it is time to report the measurements to the printer servicing server. In various embodiments the measurement reporting times are selected in a range from about 1 second to about 10 minutes. For example it is determined to report measurement every 30 seconds. If not time to report a measurement then control passes to step . If so then in step the identifier for the printer such as the serial number and the measurements are reported to the printer servicing server in one or more messages. Any reporting protocol may be used. In some embodiments the reporting protocol involves an acknowledgement. If an acknowledgement is not received in a certain time then the measurements are reported again. In some embodiments step includes deleting from the local storage the values of the measurements just reported. Control passes then to step .

In step it is determined whether an event has occurred such as one of the faults or warnings listed in Table 2 or the other events listed in Table 3 such as a user initiated operation. If not then control passes to step . If so then in step the identifier for the printer such as the serial number and the event are reported to the printer servicing server in one or more messages. Any reporting protocol may be used. In some embodiments the reporting protocol involves an acknowledgement. If an acknowledgement is not received in a certain time then the one or more messages are sent again. Control passes then to step .

In step it is determined whether an command for the printer has been received from the printer servicing server in one or more message such as a command to perform one of the user initiated operations e.g. nozzle flush listed in Table 3. If not then control passes to step . If so then in step the command is sent to the printer control process to be executed. Control passes then to step .

In step it is determined whether some end condition has been satisfied such as loss of communications with the printer servicing server or power down or system crash. If not then control passes back to step and following steps described above. If so then the process ends.

In step equipment data is determined that indicates the various printers to be serviced remotely such as printer manufacturer printer model components of each printer model sensors for each component faults and other events appropriate for each printer model or component or sensor user set parameters for each printer mode valid ranges for user set parameters valid ranges for components to detect faulty components valid ranges for sensors to detect faulty sensors and rules for alerts. Any method may be used to determine this data as described above for step .

Alerts are notification messages sent to technicians of the printer service provider or to customers of the printer service provider including technical support personnel managers or officers or some combination when a problem is identified with a printer. Problems include failures or impending failures or risk of failure above a certain threshold of risk. Rules determine which alerts are sent to which personnel based on the data received from a printer including data related to user set parameters sensor measurements events and environmental variables. In some embodiments rules are determined based on retrieving data from a notification rules data structure described in more detail below with reference to . In those data structures a rule indicates persons who receive the notifications by role. The actual person in the role depends on the printer being serviced.

In step customer data is determined that indicates the various users of the printers to be serviced remotely such as for each of one or more customers customer identifier facilities sites and associated locations e.g. physical or network address or some combination persons associated with the provider persons associated with each printer for each customer network credentials for persons gaining access to the printer servicing server and alert notification roles for each person. Any method may be used to determine this data as described above for step .

In step network communication is established with each printer servicing client process for example each printer servicing client process of a customer is added as that printer servicing client process discovers the server during step described above. The server is configured to communicate with the printer. In some embodiments step includes establishing communications with another server. For example site server establishes communications with a higher level server such as central server e.g. using autodiscovery or by means of manual configuration.

In step it is determined whether the discovered printer is not on a local network e.g. the printer is off site. If so then in step encryption is enabled for all communications with the printer. If not then encryption is not enabled. In some embodiments encryption is always enabled and steps and are omitted. Any suitable encryption or security protocol known in the art may be used. In some embodiments step includes determining whether the other server is offsite. If so then in step encryption is enabled for all communications with the other server.

In step the printer data received in the message from the printer which includes data that indicates the printer identifier e.g. serial number and network address is recorded locally in a data structure in a computer readable medium. If a higher level server is involved then the identifier and network address of the printer is also reported to the other server. For example if both site server and central server are involved in the system then the site server records the data in its computer readable medium e.g. in database and reports the data to the central server and the central server also records the data on its own computer readable medium e.g. in database .

In step it is determined whether there are any software updates since the version being used by the printer servicing client e.g. based on the original message or a subsequent exchange of messages with the printer servicing client . If not then control passes to step . If so then in step the software update is sent to the client for installation. In some embodiments the data set includes an automatic install process as is well known in the art. Then control passes to step . In some embodiments step includes receiving software updates from a higher level server if any.

In step it is determined whether the current settings or at least the changes to the current settings and current values of the environmental variables or at least the changes to those are received from the printer servicing client for a particular printer identified in the message or messages received. If not control passes to step . If so then in step the settings are recorded by the printer servicing server e.g. in a database or and if any higher level server reported to the higher level printer servicing server where it is also recorded. Control passes then to step .

In step it is determined whether the identifier for the printer such as the serial number and the measurements are received from the printer servicing client in one or more messages. Any reporting protocol may be used. In some embodiments the reporting protocol involves an acknowledgement. If so an acknowledgement is sent to the client . If no measurement message is received control passes to step . If one or more measurement messages are received then in step the data is recorded by the printer servicing server e.g. in a database or and if any higher level server reported to the higher level printer servicing server where it is also recorded. Control passes then to step .

In step it is determined whether a browser request is received from a user at a terminal such as site terminal or central terminal or mobile terminal . This is typically an HTTP message. If not then the method is at point linking to step and following steps depicted in . If an initial browser request is received from a user then in step the user is authenticated based on credentials of the user as determined in one or more authentication messages using authentication procedures well known in the art. If authenticated then further browser requests are honored. For example some browser requests identify a particular printer that is of interest. If the printer is one of the printers that is in communication with the server then a web page GUI called a dashboard is generated and sent to the user in step . The dashboard presents data from the data collected for any of the printers being serviced by the method as described in more detail below. Other GUI screens are also included. The GUI of the dashboard and other screens includes one or more active areas that can be selected by a user on their browser to cause the server to take one or more actions including presenting different data for the same printer data for a different printers and a issuing a remote command to be executed by the printer. Step includes responding to any request for presenting data from any printer for which the user is authorized. Requests to issue commands are handled in step described in more detail below. Control passes then to step through point .

In step performance of the printer is predicted based on the values of the measurements user set parameters and environmental variables. For example trends in measured values may be used with a Kaman filter or with a curve fits such as polynomial curve or a curve of principal components or to determine membership in a cluster associated with problems to predict one or more subsequent expected values. This may be combined with printer design data or data form a plurality of other printers. Based on those predictions it is determined in step whether there is a risk of a problem such as failure of a sensor or component or misapplication of a setting. If so control passes to step described below to determine whether to issue an alert. If not control passes to step . In some embodiments predictions are not made and steps and are omitted so control passes directly from point to step .

In step it is determined whether event data is received which includes data that indicates the identifier for the printer such as the serial number and an identifier for the event in one or more messages. Any reporting protocol may be used. In some embodiments the reporting protocol involves an acknowledgement. If so an acknowledgement is sent to the client . If no event message is received control passes to step .

If one or more event messages are received then in step the data is recorded by the printer servicing server e.g. in a database or and if any higher level server reported to the higher level printer servicing server where it is also recorded. Control passes then to step .

In step it is determined if the event satisfies conditions for one or more alert notification rules. If not control passes on to step described below to determine any remedial action. If conditions re satisfied for an alert then in step the alert is sent to the user based on the rule and the user roles at one of the terminals associated with the user e.g. site terminal or central terminal or mobile terminal or some combination using any terminal protocol known in the art. In some embodiments the alert message includes a link to the dashboard GUI. In some embodiments the message includes the credentials associated with the user for automatic authentication. In additions during step in some embodiments alert data is recorded by the printer servicing server e.g. in a database or and if any higher level server reported to the higher level printer servicing server where it is also recorded. Control then passes to step described below to determine any remedial action.

In step it is determined whether an error report is received which includes data that indicates the identifier for the printer such as the serial number and an identifier for the error in one or more messages. Any reporting protocol may be used. In some embodiments the reporting protocol involves an acknowledgement. If so an acknowledgement is sent to the client . In some embodiments the error report is an out of channel report e.g. a phone call or email to a technical support person at a terminal e.g. site terminal or central terminal or mobile terminal and step indicates a manual entry by the technical support person at the terminal. If no error report is received control passes to step . If an error report is received then in step the error report is recorded by the printer servicing server e.g. in a database or and if any higher level server reported to the higher level printer servicing server where it is also recorded. Control passes then to step to determine remedial action if any.

In step remedial action to stave off the problem whether predicted or actual event alert or error report is determined. In some embodiments step includes prompting a person in an expert role to provide or suggest the remedial action based on the current value or trends of the settings environment or measurements or some combination. In some of these embodiments step includes giving the expert access to historical data e.g. in database or of past problems and associated values of settings measurements or environmental variable or some combination for either the given printer or from a plurality of other printers. For example historical data includes time histories of values for settings environmental variables and measurements and any associated faults or warnings or failures or customer error reports for each printer for extended periods of time e.g. in a period of time range from about one month to about five years. In some embodiments an expert system is used to determine automatically the associations between certain problems and values of settings or measurements or environmental variables or some combination based on the historical data. In some embodiments during step the remedial action determined is recorded in the data base for the printer and if there is a higher level server reported to the higher level server.

In step it is determined if the remedial action includes one or more manual steps such as replacing an ink cartridge. If so then in step a message or instruction is sent to a person in an appropriate role e.g. user or on site technician or remote site technician at a terminal e.g. site terminal central terminal or mobile terminal to instruct that person to perform the one or more manual steps of the remedial action thus causing the system to initiate the action. The instructions may include showing an instructional video on the interface of the printer. The printer may also query a user to obtain additional data that is lacking from the sensor data such as that may be observed buy the user for example if fluids are visibly leaking from a portion of the printer . Control then passes to step to determine if there are automatic steps that can be performed by the control process . If it is determined in step that no manual steps are involved in the remedial action control passes directly to step .

In step it is determined if the remedial action includes one or more automatic steps that can be performed by the control process called controller in such as performing a nozzle flush or other operations listed in Table 3 or that can be performed by the printer servicing client such as resetting a value or a user set parameter listed in Table 5 such as message height. If so then in step a message is sent to the printer servicing client to change a value of a user set parameter or a command is sent to the control process thus causing the system to initiate the action. Control then passes to step to determine if end conditions are satisfied. If no remedial action involves automatic steps or if no remedial action is determined then control passes directly to step .

If it is determined in step that there is no error report then control passes to step . In step it is determined whether a command is received from a GUI of the dashboard or other screen operated by a user at a terminal that involves performing an automatic action or resetting a value for one or more user set parameters. If so then control passes to step described above to cause the system to initiate the action. If not control passes to step .

In step it is determined whether some end condition has been satisfied such as loss of communications with the printer or printer servicing client or power down or system crash. If so then the process ends. If not then control passes back to step to determine if there are software updates for a printer and following steps described above. In some embodiments step includes determining whether a message is received from another printer no previously communicating. If so then end conditions are not met but control passes back to step to establish communications with the new printer instead of passing to step to check for software updates for the printer.

Thus illustrates an example method that includes obtaining on a processor sensor data that indicates a first plurality of values output by a first corresponding plurality of sensors configured to measure physical phenomena related to a plurality of components of an industrial printer. The method also includes obtaining on the processor parameter data that indicates a second plurality of values for a second corresponding plurality of parameters that indicate user settings for operation of the industrial printer. Still further the method includes determining on the processor a service issue such as a predicted problem or actual fault or warning or error report or some combination related to the industrial printer based on the sensor data and the parameter data. Yet further the method includes determining at least in part on the processor an action such as a remedial action or lack thereof to be performed on the industrial printer in response to the service issue and causing the action to be initiated.

To understand the other properties of the rules consider the 8 example rules with identifiers 1 through 8 respectively. Rule 1 Notify after 1 occurrence of event do not retrigger for 30 minutes. Rule 2 Notify after 1 occurrence of event do not retrigger for 1 day. Rule 3 Notify after 3 occurrences in 30 minutes at least 5 minutes between occurrences. Rule 4 Notify if active for more than 15 minutes. Rule 5 Notify if active for more than 30 minutes. Rule 6 Notify if active for more than 1 day. Rule 7 Notify after 3 occurrences in 1 hour do not retrigger for 2 hours. Rule 8 Notify after 1 occurrence do not retrigger for 1 day.

The activation occurrence field holds data that indicates how many times the event has to occur before activating an alert notification. For example the value indicated by field would be 1 for Rules 1 2 and 8 would be a null value for rules 4 5 and 6 and would be 3 for Rules 3 and 7. The activation reset field holds data that indicates how long to wait before incrementing the number of occurrences. For example the value indicated by field would be 5 minutes for Rule 3 and null for the other rules. The activation watchdog field holds data that indicates how much time the event must persist or within which the number of occurrences should be accumulated. For example the value indicated by field would be 15 minutes for Rule 4 30 minutes for Rule 3 and Rule 5 1 hour for Rule 7 24 hours for Rule 6 and null for Rules 1 2 and 8.

The disable occurrence field holds data that indicates the number of occurrences after which a disable clock should start tracking time. For the example rules the value indicated in field match those in field . The disable reset field holds data that indicates when the disable function is reset. For the example rules the value indicated in field is null for all 8 rules. The re enable elapsed field holds data that indicates the elapsed time after the disable clock starts running that events can be accumulated or timed again called retriggered . For example the value indicated by field would be 0 minutes for Rule 4 5 and 6 would be 30 minutes for Rule 1 and 3 would be 2 hours for Rule 7 and would be 24 hours for Rule 2 and Rule 8.

Other fields in each rule record that may be used in other embodiments are indicated by ellipsis inside record . For example in some embodiments the ellipsis indicate a set of fields that list the events to which the rule applies and the roles of the persons to be notified when an alert notification rule is satisfied for that event. In other embodiments such lists are included in different data structures.

In general although data structures and fields are depicted in and subsequent diagrams in and as integral blocks in a particular order for purposes of illustration in other embodiments one or more data structures or fields or portions thereof are arranged in a different order in the same or different number of data structures or databases in one or more hosts or messages or are omitted or one or more additional fields are included or the data structures and messages are changed in some combination of ways.

The valid range field holds data that indicates one or more values or ranges of values within which a user may select a value for the parameter. The units field holds data that indicate the physical dimensions represented by the parameter. The scaling field holds data that indicates how to generate the physical dimensions represented by the parameter from the values stored such as multiplicative factor or additive factor or a logarithmic function or exponential function or polynomial function or other function or some combination. The default value field holds data that indicates a value used initially or in the absence of a value input by a user.

The time stamp field holds data that indicates a time when the user sets a value for the parameter. The value field holds data that indicates the use selected value. The ellipsis within the record indicates other fields in the record such as subsequent time stamp and value fields inserted when a user changes the value of the user set parameter.

The sensor type field holds data that indicate a sensor type used to collect the measurement type such as a thermostat or thermocouple of a certain model to measure a head temperature. The sensor ID field holds data that indicates a unique identifier for a sensor such as its serial number. In some embodiments field includes a time and sensor identifier to indicate each time a different sensor is placed or replaced in the printer. The component type field holds data that indicate a component type that the sensor is measuring such as a print head or nozzle of a certain model. The component ID field holds data that indicates a unique identifier for a component such as its serial number. In some embodiments field includes a time and component identifier to indicate each time a different component of that type is placed or replaced in the printer.

The units field holds data that indicate the physical dimensions represented by the measurement such as temperature in degrees Celsius. The scaling field holds data that indicates how to generate the physical dimensions represented by the measurement from the values stored such as multiplicative factor or additive factor or a logarithmic function or exponential function or polynomial function or other function or some combination. For example if the temperature is stored as an integer that is 1000 times the actual temperature then the multiplicative factor is 1 1000.

The normal range field holds data that indicates one or more values or ranges of values within which a measured value will not raise a warning or fault. The warning range field holds data that indicates one or more values or ranges of values within which a measured value will raise a warning that something is wrong or about to go wrong. The component fault range field holds data that indicates one or more values or ranges of values within which a measured value will indicate that the component is faulty and should be operated differently or repaired or replaced. The sensor fault range field holds data that indicates one or more values or ranges of values within which a measured value will indicate that the sensor itself is faulty and should be repaired or replaced.

The time stamp field holds data that indicates a time when the measurement is made. The value field holds data that indicates the measured value. The ellipsis within the record indicates other fields in the record such as subsequent time stamp and value fields inserted when another measurement of the type is collected.

The information and active areas on the dashboard are designed to allow a technician i.e. the remote user to detect or diagnose a problem or other servicing issue for a printer and determine any remedial action. Data range area presents text or graphics that indicates a date range for the information presented in the other areas. In some embodiments area is an active area that depicts a calendar that allows a user to select a different date range start or end date. Export area is an active area that allows a user to export data presented on the dashboard to another computer application program such as a spreadsheet or slide show or word processing program. In some embodiments a pull down menu to select a site and a printer at the sight is included elsewhere on the dashboard. In some embodiments the printer to be characterized on the dashboard is selected on a different screen.

The dashboard includes multiple summary panels among others indicated by ellipsis collectively referenced as summary panels graph panels and optionally others collectively referenced as graph panels and trend panels among others indicated by ellipsis collectively referenced as trend panels .

Each summary panel gives a current or average value of one measurement type e.g. from one sensor or of a quantity derived from one or more measurement types for a particular printer selected in export area for the date range indicated in data range area . For example each panel includes an item name area a summary area a change area and a more info area among zero or more others indicated by ellipsis.

The item name area presents data that indicates the name or description or other identifier for the sensor measurement or derived quantity e.g. as text of a particular font size and color. In some embodiments the item name area is an active area that can be selected to scroll to a different measurement or derived quantity.

The summary area presents data that indicates the current value or average value or other statistical value of the sensor measurement or derived quantity e.g. as numerals of a particular font size and color that differ from that of the item name area in some embodiments.

The change area presents data that indicates the percent change in the sensor measurement or derived quantity over the date range e.g. as numerals of a particular font size and color that differ from that of the item name area in some embodiments.

The more info area is an active area. When selected by a user the panel is replaced with a list of related information such as sensor ID date the sensor was installed component ID date the component was installed or statistic used to compute the value in the summary area among other information or a graph or some combination.

Each graph panel presents a graph of that provides context for the printer by showing a trace for the subject printer against other printers at the same site. For example panel includes an area with a line graph of print jobs by day for a week for the subject printer and zero or more other printers at the same site. An active area allows a user to select properties for the plot such as the type of graph line bar pie chart scatter etc which printers to display how many days or categories to display and symbols or colors or line types to be used to represent each printer. In the illustrated embodiment the graph panel includes an area with a bar graph of consumable usage e.g. ink and makeup fluid for the subject printer and zero or more other printers at the same site. An active area allows the user to select properties for the plot such as the type of graph line bar pie scatter etc which printers to display how many days or categories to display and symbols or colors or line types to be used to represent each printer. For example in some embodiments a user can select a pie chart of number of occurrences of each of multiple event types for one or more printers.

Each trend panel presents a graphical trend for a metric such as any measured value from a sensor or any user set parameter value or any environmental value or any event for a particular printer selected in export area for the date range indicated in data range area . For example each panel includes a metric identifier area a trend graph area and a value area among zero or more others.

The metric area give a name or other identifier for the metric being displayed. In some embodiments it is an active area that the user can operate to select a different metric. The trend area presents a graph of the trend in some embodiments without a horizontal or vertical axis. In some embodiments the trend graph includes only points during the date range of area . In other embodiments the trend graph shows the summary value for the date range and the summary values for two or more previous and contiguous date ranges of approximately equal duration. The value areas show the current value of average value over the date range of area .

Thus the dashboard allows a user at a terminal removed from the printer to determine the relative state of each of one or more printers at each of one or more sites and to detect or diagnose any service issue. In some embodiments the dashboard also provides an active area so a user at a terminal removed from the printer can issue a command or suggest an operation to be performed at the printer.

Thus the dashboard shows information about one or more printers to the remote user. It allows a remote user to easily find and view parameters or other settings of the one or more printers. It allows the user to review the event history for the printer. The event history may include faults warnings information events and parameter changes for example by an operator . Thus the remote user can see for example if an operator may have changed parameters of the printer which may have contributed to a fault failure or other change in performance of the printer. The dashboard also allows a user to graphically represent these values to try to visualize correlations between the various data. Other data available to the user includes sensor readings and out of range warnings. Thus for example a user can try to find correlations in values that precede a fault to try to predict when a fault will occur again the future in order to then take preventive steps to avoid the fault. For example if a nozzle failure typically occurs when the temperature is above a certain value and the printer has been running for a certain period of time a user may ascertain that a nozzle flush needs to be performed under those conditions before the nozzle fails. The remote user can also view the GUI for the remote printer and operate the controls for the remote printer via the GUI of the remote printer.

According to an example embodiment a Plant Server e.g. printer servicing site server and some minimal networking gear site network is installed at each plant site but this is expected to be an off the shelf personal computer PC . The service provider is prepared to supply the PC or provide required specifications so that the customer may supply their own PC. The service provider is also prepared to supply appropriate networking gear or specifications. The networking gear is expected to be limited to hubs routers and patch cables. There are two use embodiments. In a Cloud Remote Service embodiment the customer agrees to provide data to the remote service provider server printer servicing central server from the Plant Server and both the customer and the service provider access web pages with the dashboard on the printer servicing central server via the cloud a collection of networks including the public Internet . The customer is restricted to viewing their own data. In the second Local Remote Service embodiment the customer retains data at Plant Server e.g. printer servicing site server and the customer accesses web pages on the Plant Server via the local Plant network e.g. site network .

The servicing center server uses a management portal designed as a standard n tier .NET application with a web based front end using ASP.NET MVC and C as the back end languages. The cloud based offering will be multitenant architecture. Remote Service product is supported on the following OS platforms Windows Server 2008 R2 2012 Windows 7 and Other MicroSoft MS platforms that can support .NET 4.5 Framework IIS and MS standard query language SQL Server Express.

The user interface is implemented via web pages Web UI on plant server and on center server . The pages will be responsive design. This enables the application to be optimized for smartphones tablets and desktop browsers without building separate user interfaces. The Web UI can be simultaneously accessed by multiple browser clients. Support browsers include Internet and above Chrome Safari and Firefox. Terminals supported include a PC a Mac an iOS mobile device and an Android mobile device.

The database for the plant server e.g. database is SQL Express. The data base for the servicing center server e.g. database is SQL Server e.g. on plant server and on servicing center server . The databases use an extensible schema entity attribute value model such as extensible markup language XML such that new sensors data points and events may be added stored and reported without additional programming.

User authentication is based on Active Directory SAML for user management and authentication for printer service provider employees who logon with their existing credentials. Customer accounts are setup and administered using a printer service provider supplied application on the Plant Server . Their credentials are stored in the application database. Permission are role based with at least the following roles printer service provider customer administrator customer maintenance and user.

In this embodiment all sensitive information is encrypted using Triple DES or an equivalent FIPS compliant algorithm. The current sensitive information is customer Company Name and Job Name. Passwords are stored using one way SHA hashes.

WSO2 is used to securely transmit the data from the Plant Server to the servicing center server using a minimum of 256 bit secure socket layer SSL as depicted in as data transfer web service SSL on the plant server and data transfer web service SSL in the servicing center server . Data format is extensible and loosely typed to allow new data points to be added without a new web service.

The printer servicing client includes a remote service protocol on printer to communicate data and receive commands with remote service protocol on the plant server . This protocol negotiates a secure handshake using challenge response with the Plant Server before transmitting data. This will defeat a competitor who attempts to capture data from the customer printers using this new protocol. This protocol will also allow the service provider to add remote service to printers that are already connected to intelligent applications exploiting the existing WSI ESI protocol. The protocol will allow the printer to auto discover the Plant Server . The client in this embodiment determines the serial number for the printer e.g. by requiring user configuration of the printer. The printer remote service protocol does not transmit data if the serial number has not been configured.

All data transmissions are validated using checksums. Data is not saved or buffered on the printer during network outage event. Data may also be lost as a result of competition between multiple near simultaneous events. The plant server stores all data for up to 90 days then deletes it while the servicing center server archives data after 90 days.

Users will be able to view operate the printer interface remotely using VNC a commercial remote operation product. Thus a VCN module is included on the printer a VCN module is included on the plant server and a VCN module is included on the servicing center server . These modules allow a user at a terminal and logged into one of the servers to view and change user set parameters on the printer initiate various printer actions and view diagnostic screens meant for the printer GUI.

In this embodiment alerts are delivered via email. The content of the alert message s includes company plant serial number of printer and printer model a translated notification of a fault warning or other information and time of occurrence. The alert also contains a link that navigates the user after authentication to the dashboard of the reporting printer. All alerts are based on a combination of a fault warning and a rule as described above. Rules are created by the printer service provider and manually entered into the application database. Users are able to configure email address where alerts are delivered. Users are able to filter alerts based on work hours. Administrators are able to assign rules to other roles. Recommended rule to role mapping is provided by the printer service provider. Alerts are delivered from the server within 5 minutes of receipt. The server will send alerts individually without consolidation of multiple alerts.

The web page interface are generated in English but constructed to be language independent. All strings will be externalized to XML files that may be easily translated. The web pages will allow the user to dynamically change language. Other localization settings will be automatic e.g. based on location of user.

Users log onto the web portal by name and password and search for a printer by account e.g. company site e.g. plant and serial number of the printer at the site. These options are presented in an active area such as a scroll down menu. Users are able to view summary and detailed reports on printer statistics metrics and sensor data. The dashboard screen provides an overview of key data and metrics as illustrated in . Data detail can be requested from the dashboard and presented as tables averages or graphs as shown in the following figures. All charts and tables are generated using interactive reporting UI components to allow such features as sorting by clicking on column headings searching and filtering.

Screen presents names of environmental variables and some associated sensor measurements and the corresponding values grouped into different categories displayed in corresponding panels. Panel presents names and values for an Ink data category that includes serial number type bottle size lot info best used date required makeup type fill level and number of times inserted for an ink cartridge currently in the subject printer. Panel presents names and values for a raster category that includes raster through raster and indicates an operation status of each raster in the print head e.g. operational or not . Panel presents names and values for a Makeup data category that includes serial number type bottle size lot info best used date required makeup type fill level and number of times inserted and zero vacuum point for a makeup fluid cartridge currently in the subject printer. Panel presents names and values for a Core data category that includes serial number model pump run hours and birthdate of a core component in the subject printer. Panel presents names and values for an Install data category that includes software version firmware version build version WinCE operating system version number of print heads charge table version nozzle frequency currently set nozzle size and special print mode currently set for the subject printer.

Screen presents names of the sensor measurements in the special subset and the corresponding values arranged in two panels and collectively referenced hereinafter as panel . Panel presents name and units in column and current value in column and a normal range in column for each of the subset of sensor measurements including target pressure in bars temperature compensated pressure in bars actual pressure in bars head temperature in Celsius scale velocity set point actual velocity drop frequency in kilohertz modulation voltage set point modulation current ink core level printing phase phasing threshold Cabinet temperature in Celsius scale pump speed in rotations per minute RPM makeup vacuum heater power in percent gutter detect status ink present or not EHT voltage in volts EHT trip in percent print count and phase profile which rasters on during each phase .

Screen presents list of events in chronological order arranged in panel . The time interval of the event list is given by a start time in area labeled Time Date from and finish time in area labeled Time Date from . Each area is an active area in which a day and time can be selected e.g. using a calendar. Panel presents event ID in column a date time stamp in column and event type info warning fault in column an event name or description in column and a count of occurrences in column . The columns are labeled in a header row .

Screen presents a graph of relative occurrences of different events. The events that can be added or removed from the graph are listed in panel each list element is an active area. Selecting it will cause the count of occurrences for that event to be added or removed from the graph. In the illustrated embodiment the listed events include performing quick stop makeup insertions exceeded EHT HV calibration required performing nozzle flush message deleted request clean start printhead absent makeup cartridge empty and new ink core has a different ink reference. Of these nine event types four have been included in the graph as described next. Panel includes pie chart and legend . In some embodiments the pie chart is colored and the legend indicates the color of each event included in the pie chart. For example the legend indicates that the event types included in the pie chart are makeup insertions exceeded in a first color e.g. blue performing nozzle flush in a second color e.g. red request clean start in a third color e.g. green and EDT HV calibration required in a fourth color e.g. purple . The pie chart shows these four events are ordered from the most frequent largest slice to the least frequent smallest slice with occurrence rates of 8.61 3.23 1.8 and 1.8 respectively.

Screen presents a line graph of sensor measurement values temporal changes for a subset of sensors that are associated with status. The sensors that can be added or removed from the graph are listed in panel each list element is an active area. Selecting it will cause trace of measured values for that sensor to be added or removed from the graph. In the illustrated embodiment the listed sensors include target pressure in bars temperature compensated pressure in bars actual pressure in bars head temperature on the Celsius scale nozzle temperature on the Celsius scale velocity setpoint actual velocity drop frequency in kHz modulation voltage setpoint modulation current and ink core level. Of these eleven sensor measurements three have been included in the graph as described next. Panel includes trend chart with time on the horizontal axis and relative value on vertical axis . Panel includes legend . In some embodiments the lines are colored and the legend indicates the color of each sensor measured values included in the trend chart. For example the legend indicates that the sensor measurements included in the trend chart are head temperature in a first color e.g. blue drop frequency in a second color e.g. red and actual pressure in a third color e.g. green . In some embodiments the traces of the sensor measured values are offset and scaled vertically to allow the trends to be compared so the vertical axis is a relative amount and not an actual amount e.g. not actually pressure in bars and temperature in degrees Celsius.

A sequence of binary digits constitutes digital data that is used to represent a number or code for a character. A bus includes many parallel conductors of information so that information is transferred quickly among devices coupled to the bus . One or more processors for processing information are coupled with the bus . A processor performs a set of operations on information. The set of operations include bringing information in from the bus and placing information on the bus . The set of operations also typically include comparing two or more units of information shifting positions of units of information and combining two or more units of information such as by addition or multiplication. A sequence of operations to be executed by the processor constitute computer instructions.

Computer system also includes a memory coupled to bus . The memory such as a random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device stores information including computer instructions. Dynamic memory allows information stored therein to be changed by the computer system . RAM allows a unit of information stored at a location called a memory address to be stored and retrieved independently of information at neighboring addresses. The memory is also used by the processor to store temporary values during execution of computer instructions. The computer system also includes a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information including instructions that is not changed by the computer system . Also coupled to bus is a non volatile persistent storage device such as a magnetic disk or optical disk for storing information including instructions that persists even when the computer system is turned off or otherwise loses power.

Information including instructions is provided to the bus for use by the processor from an external input device such as a keyboard containing alphanumeric keys operated by a human user or a sensor. A sensor detects conditions in its vicinity and transforms those detections into signals compatible with the signals used to represent information in computer system . Other external devices coupled to bus used primarily for interacting with humans include a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT or a liquid crystal display LCD for presenting images and a pointing device such as a mouse or a trackball or cursor direction keys for controlling a position of a small cursor image presented on the display and issuing commands associated with graphical elements presented on the display .

In the illustrated embodiment special purpose hardware such as an application specific integrated circuit IC is coupled to bus . The special purpose hardware is configured to perform operations not performed by processor quickly enough for special purposes. Examples of application specific ICs include graphics accelerator cards for generating images for display cryptographic boards for encrypting and decrypting messages sent over a network speech recognition and interfaces to special external devices such as robotic arms and medical scanning equipment that repeatedly perform some complex sequence of operations that are more efficiently implemented in hardware.

Computer system also includes one or more instances of a communications interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a two way communication coupling to a variety of external devices that operate with their own processors such as printers scanners and external disks. In general the coupling is with a network link that is connected to a local network to which a variety of external devices with their own processors are connected. For example communication interface may be a parallel port or a serial port or a universal serial bus USB port on a personal computer. In some embodiments communications interface is an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a digital subscriber line DSL card or a telephone modem that provides an information communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. In some embodiments a communication interface is a cable modem that converts signals on bus into signals for a communication connection over a coaxial cable or into optical signals for a communication connection over a fiber optic cable. As another example communications interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN such as Ethernet. Wireless links may also be implemented. Carrier waves such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves including radio optical and infrared waves travel through space without wires or cables. Signals include man made variations in amplitude frequency phase polarization or other physical properties of carrier waves. For wireless links the communications interface sends and receives electrical acoustic or electromagnetic signals including infrared and optical signals that carry information streams such as digital data.

The term computer readable medium is used herein to refer to any medium that participates in providing information to processor including instructions for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media include for example dynamic memory . Transmission media include for example coaxial cables copper wire fiber optic cables and waves that travel through space without wires or cables such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves including radio optical and infrared waves. The term computer readable storage medium is used herein to refer to any medium that participates in providing information to processor except for transmission media.

Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk a hard disk a magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium a compact disk ROM CD ROM a digital video disk DVD or any other optical medium punch cards paper tape or any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a programmable ROM PROM an erasable PROM EPROM a FLASH EPROM or any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read. The term non transitory computer readable storage medium is used herein to refer to any medium that participates in providing information to processor except for carrier waves and other signals.

Logic encoded in one or more tangible media includes one or both of processor instructions on a computer readable storage media and special purpose hardware such as ASIC .

Network link typically provides information communication through one or more networks to other devices that use or process the information. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP equipment in turn provides data communication services through the public world wide packet switching communication network of networks now commonly referred to as the Internet . A computer called a server connected to the Internet provides a service in response to information received over the Internet. For example server provides information representing video data for presentation at display .

The invention is related to the use of computer system for implementing the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in memory . Such instructions also called software and program code may be read into memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in memory causes processor to perform the method steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hardware such as application specific integrated circuit may be used in place of or in combination with software to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software.

The signals transmitted over network link and other networks through communications interface carry information to and from computer system . Computer system can send and receive information including program code through the networks among others through network link and communications interface . In an example using the Internet a server transmits program code for a particular application requested by a message sent from computer through Internet ISP equipment local network and communications interface . The received code may be executed by processor as it is received or may be stored in storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution or both. In this manner computer system may obtain application program code in the form of a signal on a carrier wave.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequence of instructions or data or both to processor for execution. For example instructions and data may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer such as host . The remote computer loads the instructions and data into its dynamic memory and sends the instructions and data over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to the computer system receives the instructions and data on a telephone line and uses an infra red transmitter to convert the instructions and data to a signal on an infra red a carrier wave serving as the network link . An infrared detector serving as communications interface receives the instructions and data carried in the infrared signal and places information representing the instructions and data onto bus . Bus carries the information to memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions using some of the data sent with the instructions. The instructions and data received in memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by the processor .

In one embodiment the chip set includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a general purposed processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA not shown one or more controllers not shown or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform one or more steps of a method described herein. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of one or more steps of the methods described herein.

Pertinent internal components of the telephone include a Main Control Unit MCU a Digital Signal Processor DSP and a receiver transmitter unit including a microphone gain control unit and a speaker gain control unit. A main display unit provides a display to the user in support of various applications and mobile terminal functions that perform or support the steps as described herein. The display includes display circuitry configured to display at least a portion of a user interface of the mobile terminal e.g. mobile telephone . Additionally the display and display circuitry are configured to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal. An audio function circuitry includes a microphone and microphone amplifier that amplifies the speech signal output from the microphone . The amplified speech signal output from the microphone is fed to a coder decoder CODEC .

A radio section amplifies power and converts frequency in order to communicate with a base station which is included in a mobile communication system via antenna . The power amplifier PA and the transmitter modulation circuitry are operationally responsive to the MCU with an output from the PA coupled to the duplexer or circulator or antenna switch as known in the art. The PA also couples to a battery interface and power control unit .

In use a user of mobile terminal speaks into the microphone and his or her voice along with any detected background noise is converted into an analog voltage. The analog voltage is then converted into a digital signal through the Analog to Digital Converter ADC . The control unit routes the digital signal into the DSP for processing therein such as speech encoding channel encoding encrypting and interleaving. In one embodiment the processed voice signals are encoded by units not separately shown using a cellular transmission protocol such as enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like or any combination thereof.

The encoded signals are then routed to an equalizer for compensation of any frequency dependent impairments that occur during transmission though the air such as phase and amplitude distortion. After equalizing the bit stream the modulator combines the signal with a RF signal generated in the RF interface . The modulator generates a sine wave by way of frequency or phase modulation. In order to prepare the signal for transmission an up converter combines the sine wave output from the modulator with another sine wave generated by a synthesizer to achieve the desired frequency of transmission. The signal is then sent through a PA to increase the signal to an appropriate power level. In practical systems the PA acts as a variable gain amplifier whose gain is controlled by the DSP from information received from a network base station. The signal is then filtered within the duplexer and optionally sent to an antenna coupler to match impedances to provide maximum power transfer. Finally the signal is transmitted via antenna to a local base station. An automatic gain control AGC can be supplied to control the gain of the final stages of the receiver. The signals may be forwarded from there to a remote telephone which may be another cellular telephone any other mobile phone or a land line connected to a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or other telephony networks.

Voice signals transmitted to the mobile terminal are received via antenna and immediately amplified by a low noise amplifier LNA . A down converter lowers the carrier frequency while the demodulator strips away the RF leaving only a digital bit stream. The signal then goes through the equalizer and is processed by the DSP . A Digital to Analog Converter DAC converts the signal and the resulting output is transmitted to the user through the speaker all under control of a Main Control Unit MCU which can be implemented as a Central Processing Unit CPU not shown .

The MCU receives various signals including input signals from the keyboard . The keyboard and or the MCU in combination with other user input components e.g. the microphone comprise a user interface circuitry for managing user input. The MCU runs a user interface software to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal as described herein. The MCU also delivers a display command and a switch command to the display and to the speech output switching controller respectively. Further the MCU exchanges information with the DSP and can access an optionally incorporated SIM card and a memory . In addition the MCU executes various control functions required of the terminal. The DSP may depending upon the implementation perform any of a variety of conventional digital processing functions on the voice signals. Additionally DSP determines the background noise level of the local environment from the signals detected by microphone and sets the gain of microphone to a level selected to compensate for the natural tendency of the user of the mobile terminal .

The CODEC includes the ADC and DAC . The memory stores various data including call incoming tone data and is capable of storing other data including music data received via e.g. the global Internet. The software module could reside in RAM memory flash memory registers or any other form of writable storage medium known in the art. The memory device may be but not limited to a single memory CD DVD ROM RAM EEPROM optical storage magnetic disk storage flash memory storage or any other non volatile storage medium capable of storing digital data.

An optionally incorporated SIM card carries for instance important information such as the cellular phone number the carrier supplying service subscription details and security information. The SIM card serves primarily to identify the mobile terminal on a radio network. The card also contains a memory for storing a personal telephone number registry text messages and user specific mobile terminal settings.

In some embodiments the mobile terminal includes a digital camera comprising an array of optical detectors such as charge coupled device CCD array . The output of the array is image data that is transferred to the MCU for further processing or storage in the memory or both. In the illustrated embodiment the light impinges on the optical array through a lens such as a pin hole lens or a material lens made of an optical grade glass or plastic material. In the illustrated embodiment the mobile terminal includes a light source such as a LED to illuminate a subject for capture by the optical array e.g. CCD . The light source is powered by the battery interface and power control module and controlled by the MCU based on instructions stored or loaded into the MCU .

In the foregoing specification the invention has been described with reference to specific embodiments thereof. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. Throughout this specification and the claims unless the context requires otherwise the word comprise and its variations such as comprises and comprising will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated item element or step or group of items elements or steps but not the exclusion of any other item element or step or group of items elements or steps. Furthermore the indefinite article a or an is meant to indicate one or more of the item element or step modified by the article.

