---

title: Communication systems, communication endpoints, and related methods for remotely controlling communication endpoints
abstract: Communication systems, video endpoints, and related methods are described. A video endpoint is configured to receive commands corresponding to functions of the video endpoint from a mobile electronic device responsive to a user interacting with a remote control interface of the mobile electronic device. The functions include in-call functions. A method includes performing the functions responsive to receiving the commands from the mobile electronic device. A method of transforming a mobile electronic device into a remote control device for the video endpoint includes storing computer-readable instructions at one or more servers. The computer-readable instructions are configured to instruct the mobile electronic device to provide the remote control interface and transmit the commands to the video endpoint. A communication system includes a software distribution server including a data storage device including the computer-readable instructions, and one or more communication elements configured to transmit the computer-readable instructions to the mobile electronic device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09473738&OS=09473738&RS=09473738
owner: Sorenson Communications, Inc.
number: 09473738
owner_city: Salt Lake City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150317
---
Embodiments of the disclosure relate to systems and methods for controlling communication systems and more particularly to systems and methods for controlling communication systems for audibly impaired users.

Conventionally communication systems for audibly impaired e.g. deaf hard of hearing speech impaired or combinations thereof users include a variety of communication endpoints and services. By way of example Sorenson Communications offers the Ntouch VP videophone and the VP 200 videophone that utilize the Sorenson Video Relay Service a service that provides sign language interpretation to audibly impaired video phone users.

These and other similar communication endpoints conventionally enable users to control their functions through their own integrated user interfaces. Infrared remote control devices are sometimes provided to enable the user to navigate the integrated user interfaces. Certain inconveniences however are inherent with these infrared remote control devices. For example it can be awkward and cumbersome to provide textual inputs using an infrared remote control device. Also it can be difficult to keep track of these remote control devices which are often needed most right when they cannot be found.

In some embodiments disclosed is a video endpoint configured to enable an audibly impaired user to participate in a communication session. The video endpoint includes one or more communication elements configured to receive through a private network commands corresponding to functions of the video endpoint from a mobile electronic device. The mobile electronic device is located at a same near end location as the video endpoint. The commands are received responsive to a user of the video endpoint interacting with a remote control interface of the mobile electronic device. The functions include in call functions of the video endpoint during a communication session with a far end communication endpoint. The video endpoint also includes control circuitry configured to execute the functions of the video endpoint that correspond to the commands responsive to receiving the commands from the mobile electronic device.

In some embodiments disclosed is a method of operating a video endpoint configured to enable an audibly impaired user of the video endpoint to participate in communication sessions. The method includes communicating with a mobile electronic device in a same near end location as the video endpoint through a private network. The method also includes receiving commands from the mobile electronic device responsive to a user of the video endpoint interacting with a remote control interface of the mobile electronic device. The commands correspond to functions of the video endpoint. The functions include in call functions of the video endpoint. The method further includes performing the functions corresponding to the commands from the mobile electronic device responsive to receiving the commands.

In some embodiments disclosed is a method of transforming a mobile electronic device into a remote control device for a video endpoint configured to participate in communication sessions for audibly impaired users. The method includes storing computer readable instructions on a data storage device of one or more servers. The computer readable instructions are configured to instruct a processing element of a mobile electronic device to provide a remote control interface for controlling functions of the video endpoint the functions including in call functions. The computer readable instructions are also configured to instruct the processing element to transmit commands corresponding to the functions to the video endpoint through a private network. The method also includes transmitting the computer readable instructions to the mobile electronic device.

In some embodiments disclosed is a communication system for audibly impaired users. The communication system includes a software distribution server. The software distribution server includes a data storage device including computer readable instructions configured to instruct a processing element of a mobile electronic device to provide a remote control interface configured to enable a user of a video endpoint to control functions of the video endpoint by interacting with the remote control interface. The functions include in call functions. The computer readable instructions are also configured to instruct the processing element of the mobile electronic device to transmit commands corresponding to the functions to the video endpoint. The software distribution server also includes one or more communication elements configured to transmit the computer readable instructions to the mobile electronic device.

In some embodiments disclosed is a video phone configured to enable an audibly impaired user to participate in video communication sessions. The video phone includes one or more communication elements. The one or more communication elements are configured to transmit and receive video communications to and from a video relay service. The video relay service is configured to provide translation services for translating the video communications from the video phone to voice communications to enable the audibly impaired user of the video phone to participate in communication sessions with audibly capable users of audio endpoints. The one or more communication elements are also configured to transmit and receive video communications to and from other video phones operated by other audibly impaired users. The one or more communication elements are further configured to receive through a radio frequency wireless personal area network commands corresponding to in call functions of the video phone from a mobile electronic device responsive to a user of the video phone interacting with a remote control graphical user interface of the mobile electronic device. The mobile electronic device is located at a same near end location as the video phone. The video phone also includes control circuitry configure to execute the in call functions of the video endpoint that correspond to the commands responsive to receiving the commands from the mobile electronic device.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the disclosure may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those of ordinary skill in the art to practice the disclosure. It should be understood however that the detailed description and the specific examples while indicating examples of embodiments of the disclosure are given by way of illustration only and not by way of limitation. From this disclosure various substitutions modifications additions rearrangements or combinations thereof within the scope of the disclosure may be made and will become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art.

In addition some of the drawings may be simplified for clarity. Thus the drawings may not depict all of the components of a given apparatus e.g. device or method. In addition like reference numerals may be used to denote like features throughout the specification and figures.

Information and signals described herein may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof. Some drawings may illustrate signals as a single signal for clarity of presentation and description. It will be understood by a person of ordinary skill in the art that the signal may represent a bus of signals wherein the bus may have a variety of bit widths and the disclosure may be implemented on any number of data signals including a single data signal.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm acts described in connection with embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a special purpose processor a Digital Signal Processor DSP an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein.

The disclosure also provides meaningful limitations in one or more particular technical environments that go beyond an abstract idea. For example embodiments of the disclosure provide improvements in the technical field of communications involving audibly impaired people. In addition embodiments of the disclosure improve the functionality of communication devices themselves. In particular embodiments of the disclosure enable users of communication endpoints configured to participate in communication sessions for audibly impaired users to remotely control functions of the communication endpoints using mobile electronic devices.

In addition it is noted that the embodiments may be described in terms of a process that is depicted as a flowchart a flow diagram a structure diagram or a block diagram. Although a flowchart may describe operational acts as a sequential process many of these acts can be performed in another sequence in parallel or substantially concurrently. In addition the order of the acts may be re arranged. A process may correspond to a method a function a procedure a subroutine a subprogram etc. Furthermore the methods disclosed herein may be implemented in hardware software or both. If implemented in software the functions may be stored or transmitted as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another.

It should be understood that any reference to an element herein using a designation such as first second and so forth does not limit the quantity or order of those elements unless such limitation is explicitly stated. Rather these designations may be used herein as a convenient method of distinguishing between two or more elements or instances of an element. Thus a reference to first and second elements does not mean that only two elements may be employed there or that the first element must precede the second element in some manner. Also unless stated otherwise a set of elements may comprise one or more elements.

Elements described herein may include multiple instances of the same element. These elements may be generically indicated by a numerical designator e.g. . For ease of following the description for the most part element number indicators begin with the number of the drawing on which the elements are introduced or most fully discussed. Thus for example element identifiers on a will be mostly in the numerical format 1xx and elements on a will be mostly in the numerical format 4xx.

Embodiments of include systems and methods for controlling communication systems for audibly impaired users. It should be noted that while the utility and application of the various embodiments are described with reference to an audibly impaired environment the disclosure also finds application to any environment where control over one or more communication devices may be helpful or desirable.

The term call refers to a communication session between communication endpoints. The term incoming call refers to an incoming request for a communication session to a communication endpoint such as a video endpoint. These communication sessions should be considered to include communications such as voice communications text communications video communications or combinations thereof.

By way of non limiting example the functions of the communication endpoint that the remote control interface enables the user to control may include in call functions. As used herein the term in call functions refers to functions performed by the communication endpoint at the direction of the near end user of the communication endpoint during communication sessions between the communication endpoint and either far end communication endpoints or far end audio endpoints . In other words in call functions include user controllable functions that may be performed by the communication endpoint during communication sessions. In embodiments where the communication endpoint includes a video endpoint the in call functions may include video display and video capture functions e.g. pan zoom saturation brightness and color adjustment options camera activation and deactivation etc. . In embodiments where the communication endpoint includes a text captioned endpoint the in call functions may include text input and display functions. Also by way of non limiting example the functions of the communication endpoint that the remote control interface enables the user to control may include relay service functions e.g. assistance request functions relay service interaction functions etc. .

In some embodiments the functions of the communication endpoint that the remote control interface enables the user to control may further include placing calls to and handling calls received from far end communication endpoints far end audio endpoints or a combination thereof. U.S. Patent Publication No. 2014 0282888 to Brooksby et al. hereinafter referred to as Brooksby filed Mar. 14 2013 the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by this reference discloses a portable communication device configured to control functions of a video phone the functions including placing outgoing calls from and handling incoming calls to the video phone. Brooksby also discloses that the functions of the video phone that are controllable by the portable communication device include a function that transfers ongoing calls the video phone is participating in from the video phone to another video phone. The functions of the communication endpoint that the remote control interface enables the user to control may include additional functions similar to those disclosed by Brooksby. In other words in addition to the in call functions disclosed herein the remote control interface may enable the user to control additional functions of the communication endpoint including for example placing and receiving calls and transferring an ongoing call that the communication endpoint is participating in from the communication endpoint to another communication endpoint located at the near end.

The communication system may also include a software distribution server . The software distribution server may be configured to store computer readable instructions in a data storage device of the software distribution server . The software distribution server may be configured to transmit the computer readable instructions to the mobile electronic device where the computer readable instructions may be stored temporarily permanently or a combination thereof e.g. in random access memory RAM system data storage removable storage cloud storage etc. The computer readable instructions may be configured to instruct a processing element of the mobile electronic device to provide the remote control interface . The computer readable instructions may also be configured to instruct the processing element of the mobile electronic device to send the commands to the communication endpoint . Therefore the computer readable instructions may transform the mobile electronic device from a conventional mobile electronic device that is not capable of serving as a remote control device for the communication endpoint into a remote control device for the communication endpoint .

In some embodiments the computer readable instructions may include one or more software applications configured for execution in a mobile operating system environment e.g. IOS Android etc. . In some embodiments the computer readable instructions may include one or more web applications configured for execution through web browsing software of the mobile electronic device .

While executing the computer readable instructions the mobile electronic device may be configured to send the commands to the communication endpoint via a private network responsive to user interacting with the remote control interface e.g. a graphical user interface . As used herein the terms private network and private networks refer to communication networks that enable communications between devices in a limited geographical area e.g. personal area networks local area networks etc. . Examples of private networks include among other things wired and wireless local area networks e.g. Ethernet and Wi Fi networks line of site wireless networks e.g. Bluetooth Zigbee infrared communications other radio frequency communications optical communications super high frequency light communications millimeter wave communications etc. and wired point to point interfaces e.g. serial interfaces firewire interfaces etc. Accordingly when the mobile electronic device transmits command signals to the communication endpoint the mobile electronic device and the communication endpoint may both be located at the same near end location i.e. a location where the communication endpoint is present .

The communication endpoint may be configured to enable the user to participate in communication sessions for audibly impaired users with far end users of far end communication endpoints . As used herein the term far end refers to geographic locations remote from the near end location usually outside of the reach of the private network that enables the mobile electronic device to transmit the command signals to the communication endpoint . Although the term far end is used to describe all of the far end communication endpoints not all of the far end communication endpoints may be located at the same far end locations as others of the far end communication endpoints . Similarly the far end audio endpoints may be located at different far end locations. These far end communication endpoints and far end audio endpoints are considered to be located in the far end because one or more wide area networks e.g. the internet mobile wireless networks PSTNs etc. may be used to transmit communications between the communication endpoint and the far end endpoint e.g. far end communication endpoints far end audio endpoints .

During communication sessions between the communication endpoint and one or more of the far end communication endpoints non audible signals corresponding to non audible communications may be transmitted between the communication endpoint and the far end communication endpoints . Voice signals sometimes referred to herein as voice corresponding to audible communications may also be transmitted between the communication endpoint and the far end communication endpoint so that the user and the far end users may take advantage of any audible capabilities e.g. speech and hearing capabilities that they may have. As the far end communication endpoints are located remotely from the near end location the non audible signals and the voice transmitted between the communication endpoint and the far end communication endpoints may be transmitted at least partially through wide area networks WANs e.g. interne protocol IP networks mobile wireless networks publicly switched telephone networks PSTNs other WANs combinations thereof etc. .

In some embodiments the non audible signals may include video data. Accordingly the communication endpoint and the far end communication endpoints may each include video endpoints e.g. video phones for audibly impaired users . In such embodiments the non audible signals may include data corresponding to video images of the user and the far end users communicating using gestures e.g. American Sign Language ASL .

In some embodiments the non audible signals may correspond to text based communication data. Accordingly the communication endpoint and the far end communication endpoints may each include text captioned endpoints. In such embodiments the non audible signals may include data corresponding to text inputted into the communication endpoint and the far end communication endpoints by the user and the far end users respectively.

In some embodiments the non audible signals may include both video data and text data. It is also contemplated that the non audible signals may include data corresponding to non audible communications other than video data and text data. The non audible signals may include data corresponding to any non audible communications that may be converted to communication signals. Where a capability for converting a particular form of non audible communication into a communication signal may be implemented with the communication endpoint the disclosure likewise contemplates communication sessions between the communication endpoint and the far end communication endpoints using this non audible communication.

The communication sessions between the communication endpoint and far end communication endpoints may be administered by a session server of the communication system . The session server may be configured to communicate with the communication endpoint and the far end communication endpoints e.g. using IP networks . In some embodiments the session server may relay communication session initiation requests from the communication endpoint and the far end communication endpoints provide session event notifications to the communication endpoint and the far end communication endpoints assist in arranging communications between the communication endpoint and the far end communication endpoints other session administration acts or combinations thereof. By way of non limiting example the session server may be configured to administer video communication sessions between the communication endpoint and the far end communication endpoints using a session initiation protocol SIP an H.323 protocol or other suitable protocol.

Some of the functions of the communication endpoint that the remote control interface of the mobile electronic device enables the user to control may be related to these communication sessions. As previously discussed the functions of the communication endpoint that the remote control interface enables the user to control may include dialing and placing outgoing requests for communication sessions e.g. placing calls responding to incoming requests for communication sessions e.g. accepting or rejecting incoming calls terminating ongoing communication sessions e.g. hanging up transferring ongoing communication sessions from one of the at least one communication endpoints to another of the at least one communication endpoints other functions and combinations thereof.

Some of the functions of the communication endpoint that the remote control interface of the mobile electronic device enables the user to control may include in call functions. For example in embodiments where the communication endpoint is configured to participate in video communication sessions the in call functions may include video specific functions. The video specific functions may include video display functions and video capture functions. By way of non limiting example the video display functions may include pan adjustment zoom adjustment saturation adjustment brightness adjustment color adjustment other video display functions and combinations thereof. Also by way of non limiting example the video capture functions may include pan adjustment zoom adjustment saturation adjustment focus adjustment brightness adjustment color adjustment camera activation and deactivation and other video capture functions.

In some embodiments the functions of the communication endpoint that the remote control interface of the mobile electronic device enables the user to control may include functions that enable the user to access a contacts list associated with the communication endpoint . By way of non limiting example the remote control interface may be configured to enable the user to view and or edit e.g. add change and delete contacts and contact information the contacts list.

In some embodiments the remote control interface may enable the user to customize settings and operational modes of the communication endpoint . For example the remote control interface may be configurable to present user specific options to restrict certain functions to specific kinds of users e.g. a senior citizen user a child user an administrator user a guest user etc. . By way of non limiting example the remote control interface may limit the options presented to just placing and receiving calls with the communication endpoint when operating in a senior citizen mode. Also by way of non limiting example the remote control interface may not present options for calling emergency services e.g. when operating in a child mode.

In some embodiments the communication endpoint may include a video endpoint capable of communicating with text as well as video. These video endpoints may enable users to interact with text input fields for sharing text during video communication sessions and saving text for use during the video communication sessions. Non limiting examples of such video endpoints are disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 075 968 entitled APPARATUSES AND METHODS FOR OPERATING A COMMUNICATION SYSTEM IN ONE OF A TONE MODE AND A TEXT MODE filed Nov. 8 2013 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 543 706 entitled VIDEO ENDPOINTS AND RELATED METHODS FOR TRANSMITTING STORED TEXT TO OTHER VIDEO ENDPOINTS filed Nov. 17 2014 the entire disclosures of both of which are hereby incorporated herein by this reference. Text input sharing and saving functions of these video endpoints may be some of the functions that the user may control using the remote control interface of the mobile electronic device .

The communication system may further include a relay service . The relay service may be configured to provide translation between voice communications corresponding to voice signals from far end audio endpoints e.g. conventional or cellular telephone devices and non audible communications of non audible signals from the communication endpoint . The relay service may include a server side communication endpoint capable of participating in communication sessions with the communication endpoint similarly to the far end communication endpoints e.g. via non audible signals and in some embodiments voice . The relay service may also include a server side audio endpoint capable of participating in voice communication sessions e.g. conventional or cellular telephone communication sessions with the far end audio endpoints .

In some embodiments a human call assistant at the relay service may assist in the translation between voice communications of the voice signal and non audible communications from the non audible signals . By way of non limiting example the communication endpoint may transmit non audible signals including data corresponding to video images captured by the communication endpoint of the user communicating with ASL to the server side communication endpoint . The server side communication endpoint may present the video images of the user communicating with ASL to the call assistant . The call assistant may vocally speak a voice translation of the ASL. The server side audio endpoint may convert the call assistant s speech into voice signals and transmit the voice signals to a far end audio endpoint . The far end audio endpoint may convert the voice signals into acoustic waves for a far end audibly capable user to hear. The far end audibly capable user may speak and the far end audio endpoint may convert the speech to voice signals and transmit the voice signals to the server side audio endpoint . The server side audio endpoint may convert the voice signals to acoustic waves for the call assistant to hear. The call assistant may translate the speech to ASL and the server side communication endpoint may capture video images of the call assistant communicating in ASL. The server side communication endpoint may transmit non audible signals including data corresponding to the video images of the call assistant communicating in ASL to the communication endpoint . The communication endpoint may display the video images of the call assistant communicating in ASL to the user of the communication endpoint . In this way the user of the communication endpoint may communicate with the hearing capable user of the far end audio endpoint despite audible impairments of the user .

Although not illustrated in the relay service may also be called upon for assistance in communication sessions between the communication endpoint and the far end communication endpoints . By way of non limiting example in video communications a far end user of a far end communication endpoint may be only partially ASL capable or not ASL capable at all. The relay service may provide translation services between ASL communications of the user and the far end audibly capable user as needed.

Some of the functions of the communication endpoint that the remote control interface of the mobile electronic device enables the user to control may include functions for requesting assistance from and interacting with the relay service . By way of non limiting example the remote control interface may present options for requesting assistance from the relay service before or while placing an outgoing call to far end audio endpoints far end communication endpoints or both. Also by way of non limiting example the remote control interface may present options for requesting assistance from the relay service while a communication session is in progress between the communication endpoint and either a far end audio endpoint or a far end communication endpoint .

As a further example the remote control interface may present options that enable the user to control without intervention from the call assistant at the relay service communications e.g. initiating and terminating communications putting communications on hold etc. between the communication endpoint and the relay service between the relay service and the far end audio endpoint between the relay service and far end communication endpoints and combinations thereof. Communication endpoints that provide users control over these communications are disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 838 718 to Barton et al. filed on Mar. 15 2013 now published as U.S. Patent Publication No. 2014 0270100 hereinafter Barton and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 253 413 to Montero et al. filed on Apr. 15 2014 and now published as U.S. Patent Publication No. 2014 0267579 hereinafter Montero the entire disclosures of which are hereby incorporated herein by this reference. The remote control interface may enable the user to control these functions of the communication endpoints disclosed by Barton and Montero.

Several specific functions of the communication endpoint that may be controlled by the user through user interactions with the remote control interface of the mobile electronic device have been identified herein. The scope of the disclosure is not however limited to those specific functions identified herein. For any user controlled functions of communication endpoints that are known in the art the remote control interface may be configured to provide options to the user to control such functions. Furthermore it is contemplated that control over functions of communication endpoints that are hitherto not known in the art or are yet to be discovered may be written into the computer readable instructions that are stored at the software distribution server and distributed to the mobile electronic device . In this way the communication system may be adaptable to provide remote control over functions of the communication endpoint as these functions are discovered and implemented.

In some embodiments the remote control interface of the mobile electronic device may provide for integration with third party software tools e.g. Google Maps social media etc. . By way of non limiting example application programming interfaces APIs may be provided e.g. in the computer readable instructions implemented by servers or combinations thereof to enable the user to access information from these third party software tools using the communication endpoint . By way of non limiting example the remote control interface may enable the user to browse content from these third party software tools and send the content to or have the content sent by a server to the communication endpoint e.g. using a unique identifier of the communication endpoint such as for example a telephone number of the communication endpoint . The user may browse the content received by the communication endpoint using the communication endpoint . Information from these third party software tools may also be shared with far end users of the far end communication endpoints during communication sessions between the communication endpoint and the far end communication endpoints .

In some embodiments the communication system may include an authentication server . The authentication server may be configured to communicate with the mobile electronic device . The mobile electronic device may be configured to transmit a request to the authentication server requesting permission to control the functions of the communication endpoint . By way of non limiting example the request may include user name information password information trusted device identification information other information or combinations thereof. Thus the authentication server may be configured to determine whether to grant the mobile electronic device permission to control the functions of the communication endpoint . In other words the authentication server may be configured to verify that the user is an authorized user of the communication endpoint . The authentication server may be configured to transmit a granting communication to the mobile electronic device if the request meets predefined criteria. The granting communication may grant the mobile electronic device permission to control the functions of the communication endpoint . The authentication server may also be configured to transmit a denying communication to the mobile electronic device if the request does not meet the predefined criteria. The denying communication may deny the mobile electronic device permission to control the functions of the communication endpoint . By way of non limiting example the predefined criteria may include a requirement for the request to include a valid user name and password a trusted device identification other information and combinations thereof.

In some embodiments the communication endpoint may itself include a user interface configured to enable the user to control the functions through interactions with the communication endpoint . In such embodiments the remote control interface of the mobile electronic device may serve as a convenience for the user . For example the mobile electronic device may be within the reach of the user and the user interface may be outside of the reach of the user when the user desires to control the functions of the communication endpoint . Also the mobile electronic device may provide a more user friendly input and or output mechanisms for interacting with the remote control interface than is provided for interacting with the user interface of the communication endpoint . By way of non limiting example the mobile electronic device may include a touchscreen device that enables convenient interaction with text input fields e.g. using virtual keyboards drag and drop and touch to select and swipe to move user inputs. Also the mobile electronic device may include one or more sensors e.g. a camera capable of detecting gestures as inputs.

In some embodiments the scope of the functions that are controllable by the user interface may exceed the scope of the functions that are controllable by the remote control interface . In some embodiments the scope of the functions controlled by the user interface may be the same as or substantially the same as the scope of the functions controlled by the remote control interface . In some embodiments the user interface and the remote control interface may be substantially identical. In some embodiments the remote control interface may be integrated with the user interface and the user may be enabled to interact with options and menus presented by the user interface by making selections on the remote control interface . In some embodiments the remote control interface may enable the user to control the functions of more than one of the at least one communication endpoints with a single device.

In some embodiments the remote control interface may serve as a primary e.g. sole interface for the user to control the functions of the communication endpoint . In some embodiments the scope of the functions that are controllable by the user interface of the communication endpoint may be less than the scope of the functions that are controllable by the remote control interface of the mobile electronic device . In some embodiments the communication endpoint may not include a separate user interface .

The control circuitry may be configured to send and receive non audible signals and voice to and from the far end communication endpoint through the communication elements . The control circuitry may also be configured to receive commands from the mobile electronic device through the communication elements responsive to the user interacting with the remote control interface of the mobile electronic device . The control circuitry may be configured to execute functions of the communication endpoint corresponding to the commands received from the mobile electronic device . In this way the user may remotely control the communication endpoint using the remote control interface of the mobile electronic device .

In some embodiments the communication endpoint may include a user interface configured to enable the user to control the functions of the communication endpoint . The user interface may include one or more input devices e.g. an IR remote control a mouse a keyboard a button array combinations thereof etc. and one or more output devices e.g. an integrated digital display a separate digital display discrete light emitting diodes LEDs other output devices combinations thereof etc. . The control circuitry may be configured to execute the functions responsive to user interactions with the user interface as well as responsive to the commands received from the mobile electronic device .

In some embodiments the communication endpoint may include a video communication endpoint e.g. a video phone for audibly impaired users . In such embodiments the communication endpoint may include video equipment e.g. a video camera a digital display etc. to enable video communications. This video equipment may be implemented together with or separate from the input devices and the output devices of the user interface . By way of non limiting example the same electronic display that presents the user interface may also present video images received from a far end communication endpoint . Also by way of non limiting example a camera used for optically detecting user inputs for the user interface may also be used to capture video images that are then sent to a far end communication endpoint .

At operation the method may include receiving one or more of the commands corresponding to one or more of the functions of the communication endpoint from the mobile electronic device responsive to the user interacting with the remote control interface . In some embodiments receiving one or more of the commands includes receiving a command directing the communication endpoint to execute the in call functions. The in call functions may include controlling video display functions and controlling video capture functions. In some embodiments receiving one or more of the commands includes receiving a command directing the communication endpoint to request assistance from a relay service present edit contacts lists change customize operational modes send store text during for a video communication session access information from third party software tools e.g. social media Google Maps etc. other functions and combinations thereof.

At operation the method may include performing the functions corresponding to the commands received from the mobile electronic device responsive to receiving the commands .

At operation the method may include transmitting the computer readable instructions to the mobile electronic device .

While certain illustrative embodiments have been described in connection with the figures those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize and appreciate that embodiments encompassed by the disclosure are not limited to those embodiments explicitly shown and described herein. Rather many additions deletions and modifications to the embodiments described herein may be made without departing from the scope of embodiments encompassed by the disclosure such as those hereinafter claimed including legal equivalents. In addition features from one disclosed embodiment may be combined with features of another disclosed embodiment while still being encompassed within the scope of embodiments encompassed by the disclosure as contemplated by the inventors.

