---

title: Automatic folder access management
abstract: Methods and systems are provided for decentralizing user data access rights control activities in networked organizations having diverse access control models and file server protocols. A folder management application enables end users of the file system to make requests for access to storage elements, either individually, or by becoming members of a user group having group access privileges. Responsibility for dealing with such requests is distributed to respective group owners and data owners, who may delegate responsibility to authorizers. The application may also consider automatically generated proposals for changes to access privileges. An automatic system continually monitors and analyzes access behavior by users who have been pre-classified into groups having common data access privileges. As the organizational structure changes, these groups are adaptively changed both in composition and in data access rights.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09436843&OS=09436843&RS=09436843
owner: VARONIS SYSTEMS, INC.
number: 09436843
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150326
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 792 091 filed Apr. 14 2006 which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention relates to computer security. More particularly this invention relates to modification of user access permissions on a computer system.

Data security policies typically determine who has access to an organization s stored data on various computer systems. These policies are rarely static. Users from within the organization e.g. employees partners contractors can pose a threat as severe as threats from outside the organization. Thus as the structure and personnel makeup of the organization change the security policy should be adjusted from time to time. Yet information technology departments often find it difficult to manage user access rights and to ensure that needed information is conveniently available while still protecting the organization s sensitive data.

Access control technologies have not been optimally implemented in enterprises that utilize diverse access control models. The state of the art today is such that there is no easy way for system administrators to know who is accessing what in such environments. As a result in many organizations an unacceptably high proportion of users has incorrect access privileges. The related problems of redundant access rights and orphan accounts of personnel who have left the organization have also not been fully solved. Hence there is a need for improvements in controlling user file permissions in order to improve data security prevent fraud and improve company productivity. Furthermore misuse of data access even by authorized users is a concern of those charged with simplification and automation system security.

Current techniques available to information technology personnel include review and maintenance of access control lists in conjunction with administration of user names passwords and the extension of such techniques to include bio metrics encryption and limitation of access to a single sign on. Such techniques are inefficient often inaccurate and become impractical in the context of large complex organizations whose structure and personnel are constantly changing.

Aids to security are available for enterprises using particular operating systems or environments. These are often involve role based access control a technique that has been the subject of considerable interest for the last several years by governmental organizations and has more recently been adopted in commercial enterprises.

According to disclosed embodiments of the invention methods and systems are provided for decentralizing user data management activities e.g. access requests in networked organizations having diverse access control models and file server protocols. Storage elements within the organization have an ownership attribute. Within an organization s file system there are typically many owners each having ownership of a portion of the storage elements e.g. folders that are stored in the file system. Aspects of the invention enable these owners to control access rights to their respective portions.

In one aspect of the invention a folder management application enables end users of the file system to make requests for access to storage elements either individually or by becoming members of a user group having group access privileges. Responsibility of dealing with such requests is distributed to respective data owners and group owners who typically have diverse operational responsibilities in the enterprise. The owners may further delegate their responsibility to authorizers . Additionally or alternatively the folder management application may process proposals for changes to access privileges that are generated automatically. Generation of the proposals is accomplished by an automatic monitor that analyzes access behavior by users who have been pre classified into groups having common data access privileges. As the organizational structure changes these groups are adaptively changed both in composition and in data access rights. Proposals to vary user access rights are generated by the monitor. These proposals are intended to dynamically conform user access requirements to the needs of the organization.

The process of handling user requests and automatically generated requests is largely automated and vastly improves upon previous systems which are either manual or are concentrated in an information systems department of the organization.

An embodiment of the invention provides a computer implemented method for controlling data access by users of a file system which is carried out by receiving a request for a change in user access rights of one of the users to a designated storage element of the file system wherein respective first portions of storage elements of the file system are owned by data owners that control the user access rights thereto. A user repository for the file system includes groups of users wherein the groups have common access rights to respective second portions of the storage elements. The method is further carried out by identifying one of the groups wherein the common access rights of the identified group include the designated storage element obtaining a consent to the request from the data owner of the designated storage element and responsively to the consent adjusting a membership of the one user in the identified group to conform the access rights of the one user to the designated storage element to the request.

An additional aspect of the method includes establishing at least one data authorizer to act on behalf of the data owner wherein the consent is obtained from the at least one data authorizer.

In still another aspect of the method the identified group has a group owner that controls the membership thereof and the method is further carried out by obtaining a concurrence from the group owner of the identified group to change the membership of the One user therein.

One aspect of the method includes establishing at least one group authorizer to act on behalf of the group owner wherein the concurrence of the group owner is obtained from the at least one group authorizer.

In another aspect of the method the request includes an addition of access rights of the one user to the designated storage element and adjusting a membership comprises accepting the one user as a member of the identified group.

Yet another aspect of the method includes monitoring accesses of the users to the storage elements and deriving respective access profiles thereof and responsively to the access profiles automatically generating the request.

Still another aspect of the method includes automatically defining the groups responsively to the access profiles.

In a further aspect of the method the request includes a deletion of access rights of the one user to the designated storage element and adjusting a membership comprises removing the one user as a member of the identified group.

An additional aspect of the method includes establishing a rule having at least one satisfaction criterion determining that the request complies with the criterion and responsively to the determination consenting to the request automatically.

Computer software product and apparatus are provided in other embodiments of the invention for carrying out the aforedescribed method.

In the following description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent to one skilled in the art however that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known circuits control logic and the details of computer program instructions for conventional algorithms and processes have not been shown in detail in order not to obscure the present invention unnecessarily.

Software programming code which embodies aspects of the present invention is typically maintained in permanent storage such as a computer readable medium. In a client server environment such software programming code may be stored on a client or a server. The software programming code may be embodied on any of a variety of known media for use with a data processing system such as a diskette or hard drive or CD ROM. The code may be distributed on such media or may be distributed to users from the memory or storage of one computer system over a network of some type to other computer systems for use by users of such other systems.

Typically in business organizations an information technology department is responsible for data access authorizations across the enterprise. However information technology personnel are often not well positioned to evaluate business needs or data sensitivity. The data owner e.g. an account manager may not be aware of user requests to view data under his aegis. Third party reviewers such as the legal department of the enterprise may also be unable to routinely provide input into the process.

In one aspect of the invention control of access rights to storage elements of an organizational file system is decentralized to respective owners of the storage elements and their delegatees. For example end users may request access to storage elements either individually or by application to join one or more user groups having common data access rights. Such user groups may be interactively established by administrators or owners using the folder management application. Additionally or alternatively user groups may be automatically established using biclustering techniques which are disclosed in commonly assigned application Ser. No. 11 258 256 entitled Automatic Management of Storage Access Control and which is herein incorporated by reference. The responsibility of dealing with such requests and managing other changes in access privileges to storage elements in the file system devolves upon respective owners of the storage elements who may further delegate responsibility for the same or different portions of the storage elements falling under their responsibility to authorizers .

The folder management application may also deal with proposals for changes to access privileges that are received from an automatic system which is disclosed in the above noted application Ser. No. 11 258 256. Briefly access to storage elements within an organizational network is continually monitored and analyzed in order to define user data access profiles and simultaneous data access groupings and user groupings. The actual organizational structure is learned from these groupings and becomes the basis for dynamic data access control proposals which are constantly adapted to organizational changes over time. These proposals are considered and acted upon by decentralized managers of file access control as described below.

Turning now to the drawings reference is initially made to which is a block diagram of a data processing system wherein data access management is decentralized in accordance with a disclosed embodiment of the invention. The system may be implemented as a general purpose computer or a plurality of computers linked together in a network for example the Internet. Thus although the system is shown as comprising a number of separate functional blocks these blocks are not necessarily separate physical entities but rather represent different computing tasks or data objects stored in a memory that is accessible to the processor. These tasks may be carried out in software running on a single processor or on multiple processors. The software may be provided to the processor or processors on tangible media such as CD ROM or non volatile memory. Alternatively or additionally the system may comprise a digital signal processor or hard wired logic.

Organization wide data storage accessible by the system is represented by an organizational file system . The file system may comprise one or more co located storage units or may be a geographically distributed data storage system as is known in the art. There is no requirement that individual storage units of the file system have the same capabilities. Storage elements in the file system have an ownership attribute. Within an organization s file system there are typically many owners each having ownership of a portion of the storage elements e.g. folders that are stored in the file system.

The file system may be accessed by any number of users using a graphical user interface application GUI which relates to other elements of the system via an application programming interface API . The users are typically members of the organization but may also include outsiders such as customers. The graphical user interface application is the interface of the management system through which the users can receive the results of their actual usage analysis as determined an analysis engine . Sufficiently qualified users owners and their delegatees authorizers can view their current status and can view changes recommended by the system. The owners and authorizers are authorized to accept or reject recommended or requested changes. In a complex organization the owners may be executives of a business unit and the authorizers would be their subordinates. There may be any number of authorizers associated with different owners and different authorizers may be authorized to control the same or different portions of the storage elements in the file system that are owned by the associated owner.

A probe engine is designed to collect historical user access information from the file system in an ongoing manner filter out duplicate or redundant information units and store the resulting information stream in a database DB . The probe engine is also utilized to collect information related to the organization s current file security policy the current structure of the file system and information about the users . The probe engine can be implemented in various environments and architectures.

The database is linked to a user repository which maintains a list of user identifications states roles group memberships and passwords. The user repository can be realized as the Active Directory service available from Microsoft Corporation Redmond Wash. The user repository is a logical unit that may be distributed in one or more enterprise servers e.g. a domain controller. In addition to user information the user repository facilitates assignment of enterprise wide policies deployment of programs and application of critical updates to the entire organization.

The analysis engine is a specialized module that deals with defining normal activity profiles and detecting atypical or exceptional data access activity by the users . The front end for the analysis engine is a data collector which efficiently records the storage access activities in the database . The output of the analysis engine can be further manipulated using an interactive administrative interface that enables system administrators to perform queries on the collected data.

In some embodiments the analysis engine is configured to evaluate the effects of proposed changes in data access rights. Performance of this evaluation is described in commonly assigned application STC File No. 60579 entitled Evaluating Removal of Access Permissions which is herein incorporated by reference. The owners and authorizers then have the ability to view a report of operation of the analysis engine prior to prior to acting upon any proposed changes in data access privileges. Briefly proposed removals of users from groups with common data access privileges or removal of privileges of such groups to access specified storage elements are validated prior to actual implementation. This is done by determining 1 that the users do not have alternative means of accessing the same data through membership in other groups and 2 by determining that historical user accesses would still be allowable by proposed residual access rights.

Related to the analysis engine is a commit module which verifies ongoing user compliance with a governing or proposed security policy using data collected prior to its implementation. The commit module references an access control list ACL . Activities of the commit module are described in further detail in the above noted application Ser. No. 11 258 256.

A specialized access privilege management application is linked to users owners and authorizers via the interface and the user interface application . The management application may query and receive additional input from the analysis engine . The management application which is described in detail hereinbelow is at the heart of the ability of the owners and authorizers to control the composition of user groups and to regulate data access rights of individual users . Third party reviewers are also linked to the management application .

Referring again to it will be seen from the discussion of below that the management application provides a framework for the decentralization of data access rights authorization from a central control unit to local units e.g. from an information technology department to business units. The management application enables controlling authorities i.e. the owners and authorizers to be accountable for resources under their ownership and management. The management application enables creation and authorization of requests to change permissions for data access and requests for changes in group membership.

Several roles are defined for the management application . As part of the responsibilities of the roles outlined below the management application enables designated authorizers and third party reviewers across an organization to grant or deny requests. Such authorization review further enhances the organization s accountability and transparency.

Administrators typically belonging to an information technology department are responsible for the managing the following areas and personnel other administrators locations shared drives base folders assignment of data owners to base folders assignment of group owners to groups floor support personnel defining permission types and establishment of synchronization reports.

Data owners perform the following activities relating to managed directories adding and removing managed directories adding and removing automatic rules and authorization rules adding and removing authorizers granting permissions and acting on user requests for access to data. As noted above granting such requests actually entail adding users to the relevant groups. Essentially data owners establish authorization roles set priorities and manage accountability. Data owners also have responsibility for synchronizing the storage elements under his responsibility with the managed environment of the management application a function that is explained below. An exemplary data owner in a business enterprise is the organization s marketing director.

Group owners perform the following activities relating to managed groups adding and removing managed groups adding and removing users to managed groups under their control adding and removing automatic rules and authorization rules adding and removing authorizers and acting on requests for group membership.

Authorizers are responsible for acting on requests within areas of responsibility that are delegated to them by owners or data owners. Multiple levels of authorization may be defined in accordance with a governing security policy. For example an authorizer might consider business need in deciding whether to authorize a user request. Third party reviewers such as an organization s legal department may have veto power and in this way participate in a role of authorizer.

Users access the management application to request access to data and track the status of their requests. A user may actually be a set of users in which case the procedures described below are performed iteratively and recursively as appropriate.

Reference is now made to which is a simplified block diagram illustrating devolution of responsibility for management of data access rights in an exemplary instance of the enterprise file system in accordance with a disclosed embodiment of the invention. In lines associated with administrative responsibility and control are broken. The file system has a root folder or root directory control of which is limited to a high level administrator VP IT who could be the head of the organization s information technology department.

In a hierarchical level below the root directory are base folders which contain storage elements relating to the financial and human resource activities of the enterprise respectively. The base folder contains subsidiary folders which hold content relating to payroll accounts receivable and cash on hand respectively. The base folder contains one subsidiary folder which holds content relating to training activities. Of course a substantial business enterprise has many other activities in its organizational structure which would correspond to other folders and hierarchical levels of subfolders not shown in the file system .

A data owner has responsibility for the base folder and its subsidiary folders . Here the data owner is the organizations chief financial officer CFO . He has retained direct authority over the base folder and the folder and has appointed two authorizers to manage the folders respectively.

A data owner has administrative responsibility for the base folder and its subsidiary folder . In this example the data owner is the organization s vice president for human resources VP ER . His management approach delegates responsibility to a greater extent than that of the data owner . The data owner has appointed authorizers . The authorizer has direct responsibility for the base folder . The authorizer is responsible for the folder .

It will be apparent that many combinations of direct and delegated responsibility are possible in the system in order to accommodate various philosophies of management that may be found within the enterprise.

In the ordinary course of work users often need access to a specific file or directory for which they do not have permission to access. When this happens users interact with the management application to generate explicit permission requests. In complex organizations it has been found that such permissions are best assigned by adjusting user group memberships rather than directly granting individuals access permissions. A user s request for access rights is automatically converted to an appropriate group membership request. If the user is granted membership in a group the user may access all the data to which that group has access rights.

The user interface application comprises a graphical user interface for the management application . A menu bar offers the following selections 

For example a data owner may add a new managed directory using the facilities of the folder management application . Reference is now made to which is an exemplary screen display produced by a folder access management application in accordance with a disclosed embodiment of the invention. The screen display is brought up by selection of the owner option which enables the owner to create a new managed directory. A pane presents drop down lists on which the location and shared drive of the new managed directory s base directory resides can be chosen respectively. The data owner selects an entry in a folder name column which holds a list of base folders. The selection indicates the base folder in which the new managed directory is to be created.

Reference is now made to which is a screen display of the folder access management application of showing managed directory details in accordance with a disclosed embodiment of the invention. The screen display is presented upon selection of an entry in the column . To set the new managed directory s path one of the following actions is performed 

In a folder name column a navigation tree of an entry may be expanded. The navigation trees are indicated by iconic symbols . Thereafter a directory not shown in which the managed directory is to reside can be chosen.

Alternatively the path of the directory in which the managed directory is to reside can be entered in a text box .

Other role functions listed above may be executed using similar screen displays and dialog boxes of the graphical user interface. For example screen displays not shown are provided for group owners to add and remove users from groups add and remove authorizers for managed groups view details of authorizers and managed authorization rules and automatic rules for managed groups. In another example screen displays not shown are provided to enable authorizers to conveniently accept or deny user requests.

Authorization rules enable automatic authorization of actions requiring a decision by a designated authorizer or set of authorizers when criteria of the rules are met. For example such rules can avoid chain of command distortions that could arise for example if a low level clerk were to deny a request by a high ranking executive of the enterprise.

Automatic rules are similar to authorization rules. If satisfied by a user request they enable the system to automatically act on such requests without intervention of authorizers or owners. Normally such automatic rules allow the system to automatically grant routine requests e.g. requests for read only access to data that is deemed to be non sensitive. For example an automatic rule may specify automatic granting of requests by personnel having a particular rank or title to access data that reside in specified base folders.

The graphical user interface of the management application allows creation and management of automatic rules and authorization rules by users having appropriate roles. Textual entries are then converted to regular expressions.

Referring again to the state of managed directories is maintained in the database . When changes are made in the state of managed directories data owners can synchronize the state of a managed directory with the database thereby committing changes they have made to the database. The graphical user interface offered by the management application has facilities for initiating such synchronization operations. A screen display not shown assists the data owner by displaying the changes made to the managed directory since the last synchronization.

The management application can generate a synchronization results report which indicates the differences between the state of the database and the states of the user repository and the file system . The report is based on the most recent execution of a synchronization task.

The methods described below can be carried out by the system . It should be noted that the steps of these methods are performed automatically or responsively to decisions taken by personnel who are generally assigned outside the information technology department.

Reference is now made to which is a flow chart of a method of processing a request for data access rights in accordance with a disclosed embodiment of the invention. At initial step a user request for access to a storage element is received.

Next at step a user group also known as a security group having access rights to the requested storage element is identified. Each managed directory is associated with at least one user group to which users who request access to the directory are mapped. If there a need for a new user group to be created in order to accommodate the request this is done automatically using a special organizational unit which can be located anywhere within the user repository .

Next at step a membership request is generated in which an application is made for the user to join the user group identified in step . Two levels of approval are required for the membership request. The membership request is publicized to all authorizers for the user group. This may be done using an electronic messaging system e.g. internal email.

Control now proceeds to decision step where it is determined if the request satisfies an automatic rule that has been established by the group owner. This is done by regular expression matching which is well known in the art. If the determination at decision step is affirmative then control proceeds to decision step which is described below.

If the determination at decision step is negative then control proceeds to decision step where it is determined if user membership in the specified user group is acceptable to the group owner. This step requires human intervention. The question in most cases reduces to approval by all the authorizers for the group owner or by the group owner itself if no authorizers have been designated. Alternatively if an authorization rule in force for the group is satisfied the determination in decision step is made by the set of authorizers designated by the authorization rule. In either case if the determination at decision step is negative then control proceeds to final step . The user s request is denied.

If the determination at decision step is affirmative then control proceeds to decision step where it is determined if the requests satisfies an automatic rule that has been established by the data owner. Decision step is performed in the same manner as decision step .

If the determination at decision step is affirmative then control proceeds directly to final step which is described below.

If the determination at decision step is negative then control proceeds to decision step where it is determined if the user s request is acceptable to the data owner. This step like decision step requires human intervention. The question reduces to approval by all authorizers of the particular folder or storage element or by the data owner itself if no authorizers have been designated.

If the determination at decision step is negative then control proceeds to final step . Otherwise control proceeds to final step at which the user s request is approved. The user is added to the specified user group and has rights to access the requested data together with the other group members. The procedure terminates. In final steps a notification such as an email may be sent to the user informing him of the action on the request.

The management application is adapted to deal with proposals to remove data access rights from a user. Reference is now made to which is a flow chart of a method for removing a user s data access rights in accordance with a disclosed embodiment of the invention.

At initial step a proposal to remove a user s data access rights to a storage element e.g. a folder is received. As noted above such proposals may be generated automatically in the course of operation of the monitoring system disclosed in the above noted application Ser. No. 11 258 256. Additionally or alternatively such proposals may be received as third party requests for example from auditors or others having responsibility for data security or even from the user himself.

Next at step a notification is sent to the authorizers designated by the data owner of the relevant storage element. If there are no authorizers the notification is sent to the data owner. This may be accomplished by internal email or similar messaging systems.

Control now proceeds to decision step where it is determined if the proposal is acceptable to the recipients of the notification sent in step . If the determination at decision step is affirmative then control proceeds to final step . The user s access rights to the storage element are terminated. A message may be sent to the affected user or his supervisors advising him of the action.

If the determination at decision step is negative then control proceeds to final step . No further action is necessary although optionally notifications may be sent to the affected user or his supervisors. The procedure terminates.

It will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art that the present invention is not limited to what has been particularly shown and described hereinabove. Rather the scope of the present invention includes both combinations and sub combinations of the various features described hereinabove as well as variations and modifications thereof that are not in the prior art which would occur to persons skilled in the art upon reading the foregoing description.

