---

title: Method and apparatus to identify outliers in social networks
abstract: A system that incorporates teachings of the present disclosure may include, for example, a process that reduces a sampling size of a total population of on-line social network users based on a comparison of seed information to a population of on-line social network users. The reduced sampling of on-line social network users is compared to a social graph of the on-line social network users, wherein the social graph is obtained from an algorithm applied to the reduced sampling of the on-line social network users. An outlier is determined in the reduced sampling of on-line social network users based on relationships between the on-line social network users. The determining of the outlier is also based on one of ambient or publicly available information combined with an intra-graph property of the on-line social network users, wherein the outlier does not conform to the social graph. Additional embodiments are disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09443024&OS=09443024&RS=09443024
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, LP
number: 09443024
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150506
---
This application is a Continuation of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 231 964 filed Apr. 1 2014 which is a Continuation of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 892 208 filed Sep. 28 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 775 605 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 246 897 filed on Sep. 29 2009. The contents of each of the foregoing are hereby incorporated by reference into this application as if set forth herein in full.

The present disclosure relates generally to social networking and more specifically to a method and apparatus to identify outliers in social networks.

On line social networks OSNs have grown in popularity over the years. OSNs such as FaceBook MySpace and Twitter have growing populations of users numbering in the hundreds of millions. Although a substantial portion of the information presented by OSNs is publicly available subject to privacy profile settings of users it can be a daunting task to identify outliers persons or entities that stand out in these networks.

The present disclosure includes methods and systems for identification of induced subgraphs based on a variety of seed information related to one or more persons or groups on OSNs. Among the applications of the exemplary embodiments is use of the publicly available information for identifying outliers such as for the benefit of law enforcement agencies.

In one exemplary embodiment a method is provided that can include obtaining seed information reducing a sampling size of a total population of OSN users according to the seed information using a processor comparing the reduced sampling of OSN users to at least one of a social graph or a generalized profile of OSN users determined from the total population of OSN users where the comparison is performed by the processor and identifying one or more outliers in the reduced sampling of OSN users that do not conform to the social graph or the generalized profile of OSN users.

In another exemplary embodiment a computing device can include an interface for receiving seed information and a controller to identify one or more outliers from a reduced sampling of a total population of OSN users according to the seed information and at least one of a social graph or a generalization of portions of the total population of OSN users.

In yet another exemplary embodiment a non transitory computer readable storage medium is provided that can include computer instructions to reduce a sampling size of a population of OSN users compare the reduced sampling of OSN users to at least one of a social graph or a generalized profile of OSN users determined from the population of OSN users and identify one or more outliers in the reduced sampling of OSN users that do not conform to the social graph or the generalized profile of OSN users.

OSNs have emerged as the most popular application since the Web began in the early 1990s. Coincident with the growth of Web 2.0 applications such as mashups user generated content and users being treated as first class objects numerous social networks along with thousands of helper applications have arisen. Well known among them are Facebook MySpace Friendster Bebo hi5 and Xanga. Facebook alone has over 500 million users. Many applications have been created to use the distribution platform provided by OSNs. For example popular games like Scrabulous allow many hundreds of thousands of users on Facebook to play the game with their social network friends. A few smaller networks with superficial similarities to the larger OSNs have started recently. Some of these began as simple helper applications that work well with the larger OSNs but then became popular in their own right.

A key distinguishing factor of these smaller networks is that they provide a new means of communication. In the case of Twitter it is Short Message Service SMS a store and forward best effort delivery system for text messages. In the case of qik it is streaming video from cell phones. Jaiku another small OSN allows people to share their activity stream. Location based social networks include Foursquare and Gowalla. GyP Sii a Dutch OSN is aimed at the mobile market exclusively combining geo location of users with image uploading and works on various cell phones including Apple s iPhone. Close to Twitter a mobile OSN that encourages constant updates is Bliin. Other examples of exclusively mobile social networks include Itsmy and MyGamma.

A distinguishing factor of such smaller networks and applications is their ability to deliver the data to interested users over multiple delivery channels. For example Twitter messages can be received by users as a text message on their cell phone through a Facebook application that users have added to their Facebook account to see the messages when they log in via email as an RSS feed or as an Instant Message with a choice of Jabber GoogleTalk etc. . shows the various input and output vectors to send and receive Twitter status update messages tweets . The types of communications used e.g. IM SMS Web Interface etc. can be utilized as factors in determining outliers in an OSN. Twitter is an example of a micro content OSN as opposed to say YouTube where individual videos uploaded are much larger. Individual tweets are limited to 140 characters due to the SMS limit. Twitter is but one example of an OSN and has a very distinct architecture. The exemplary embodiments described herein for determining outliers in OSNs can be applied to Twitter and can also be applied to other OSNs which may or may not have architectures that are distinct from Twitter.

Twitter began in October 2006 and is written using Ruby on Rails. It was determined that users from a dozen countries are heavily represented in the user population but significantly less than the U.S. Recently Twitter has made interesting inroads into novel domains such as help during a large scale fire emergency updates during riots in Kenya and live traffic updates to track commuting delays.

The present disclosure allows for characterizing a novel communication network in depth its user base and geographical spread and compare results of different crawling techniques in the presence of constraints from a generic measurement point of view. In one example we conducted various crawls of the Twitter network and developed a detailed characterization of the Twitter network. This information can further be utilized for identifying anomalies or outliers in the user population.

The present disclosure can utilize various data collection methods but preferably two main data collection methods are utilized both relying on the Application Programming Interface API functions provided by Twitter. In one embodiment detailed information can be gathered on the users and the list of users each of them were following. The constraint on the number of queries that could be issued in a day can be the key limiting artifact in the reach of our crawl. A Twitter user interested in the statuses of another user signs up to be a follower. The public timeline API method can also be used which returns a list of the twenty most recent statuses posted to Twitter.com by users with custom profile pictures and unrestricted privacy settings.

The following example is based on data gathering that occurred in 2008 based on Twitter. Since that time Twitter and other OSNs have grown significantly in their number of users. However the data gathering techniques and the exemplary embodiments for determining outliers in social networks remain applicable. The exemplary embodiments for determining outliers becomes even more relevant and efficient as the OSNs continue to grow. In this example the first dataset crawl gathered by a constrained crawl of the Twitter network was seeded by collecting the public timeline at four distinct times of day 2 00 8 00 14 00 and 20 00 Mountain Time and extracting the users that posted the statuses in these timelines. Each step in the crawl involved collecting details of the current user as well as a partial list of users being followed by the current user. During this process the median number of users followed by the previously crawled users m was tabulated. To further the crawl the first m users followed by the current user would be added to the set of users to crawl. If the current user followed fewer than m users all users were added to the set of users to crawl. It should be noted that while the users that posted statuses are clearly currently active the list of users obtained in successive steps may not have been active. This first dataset is likely to include a certain fraction of passive users. The duration of data gathering was three weeks from January 22to February 12and information about 67 527 users was obtained.

The second dataset timeline was gathered via the public time line command to sample currently active Twitter users. Twitter continually posts a series of twenty most recent status updates. Samples were made by retrieving the public timeline and extracting the set of users associated with the statuses in the timeline. Details of these users were then collected. Once details of the users from the previous timeline were gathered the public timeline was queried again to find the next set of users. This process was repeated for a period of three weeks January 21to February 12 resulting in samples from various times of day and days of the week. Information about 35 978 users was gathered in this dataset.

Finally to examine potential bias in our constrained crawl an additional dataset of 31 579 users was gathered between February 21to February 25 via the Metropolized random walk with backtracking used for unbiased sampling in P2P networks. Note that this crawl required fewer requests as we considered only one child of each node and the rate limiting was slightly relaxed. Our analysis presents results on all the datasets with comparisons as warranted.

With nearly 100 000 users in the three datasets combined we believe that we can extract broad attributes of Twitter users. We begin by examining the number of users each user follows and the number of users they are followed by to get an idea of the nature of connections between users in micro content social networks.

The relationship between the number of followers and following is explored in . These relationships between users can be utilized to assist in determining outliers in OSNs such as follower and following relationships in Twitter and friend relationships in other OSNs. shows a scatter plot of the follower following spread in the crawl dataset. Three broad groups of users can be seen in this figure. The first group appears as vertical lines along the left side of . These users have a much larger number of followers than they themselves are following. This behavior characterizes broadcasters of tweets. Many of the users here are online radio stations who utilize Twitter to broadcast the current song they are playing. Others include the New York Times BBC and other media outlets generating headlines.

A second group of users labeled acquaintances tend to exhibit reciprocity in their relationships typical in online social networks. Users in this group appear in the large cluster that falls roughly along the line y x in .

A third unique group of users is a small cluster around the line x 7000 in . A common characteristic of these users is that they are following a much larger number of people than they have followers. Such behavior is typical of miscreants e.g. spammers or stalkers or evangelists who contact everyone they can and hope that some will follow them. For example one month after the crawl data was collected one of the users in this group has increased his following count from 7 462 to 31 061. Over this same period his number of followers has decreased from 3 333 to 3 260.

The top datapoint on x 7000 is John Scoble a technical blogger who follows roughly 70 of the people who follow him. The vertical lines corresponding to x 1 2 . . . 10 in happen to be broadcasters as well who are following the primary broadcaster at x 0. For example a top broadcaster somafm illstreet 140 183 updates has 213 followers and is following 11 all of whom are sister radio stations.

Next we examine the relationship between the number of status updates tweets and the following follower relationship. contains three sets of data points. The all data points plot the following follower relationship for all users in the crawl data same as . The 90 and the 99 data points plot the following follower relationship for the top 10 90th percentile 964 or more tweets during the user s lifetime and the top 1 99percentile 1 727 or more tweets of tweeters.

Twitter users can include their URL information both URL and the UTC offset are present in nearly two thirds of users in crawl and timeline datasets. Comparing the domain information in the URLs with the UTC offset allows us to see popularity of Twitter in different countries. Users with URL in the .com domain are largely likely to be in North America but the UTC showed some of them to be in Europe as well. Beyond this the rest of the UTC data lined up with the domain information. After the USA the top 10 countries are Japan Germany U.K. Brazil Holland France Spain Belgium Canada and Italy. These eleven countries account for around 50 of users in our datasets.

Referring next to the source interface used for posting Twitter messages is examined as shown in Table 1. In one exemplary embodiment source interface data such as gathered in Table 1 can be used in the determination of outliers in an OSN by identifying anomalies in the use of those interfaces for certain users or groups of users. Table 1 exemplifies that the manner of utilizing the particular OSN e.g. Twitter can be a factor in determining the outliers in the OSN. As described later this factor can be accounted for through use of the communications graph in the outlier determination process. The distribution of sources are nearly identical in crawl and timeline datasets with the top dozen sources accounting for over 95 of all tweets. Nearly 60 come from Web which includes the Twitter.com Web site and unregistered applications that use the API. Mobile devices and Instant Messages have visible presence. A fifth of all status updates come from the various custom applications that have been written using the Twitter API. Twitter traffic increased significantly when the API was opened up. The custom applications are for different OSes e.g. Twitterrific for Macintosh Twitterwindows for Windows in Japanese browsers Twitterfox for Firefox RSS feeds blogs Twitterfeed netvibes and Twitter tools desktop clients Twhirl Snitter OSNs Facebook and mobile clients Movatwitter and Instant Message tools.

Our methodology to gather Twitter data had a key constraint we were limited by the Twitter user agreement in the number of requests we could issue each day. Yet we were able to gather data about over 67 000 users via our crawl. At the same time we were able to fetch public timeline data made available by Twitter.

Drawing inferences about the global Twitter graph depends on the representativeness of the portion of the graph we have captured. The status updates in the timeline dataset are presumably a random snapshot of currently active users. As mentioned above the crawl dataset could include users who have not been active recently. The representativeness of the crawl can require correction for bias towards high degree nodes adding backtracking to the random walk is one way. We implemented the Metropolized random walk variant in the data collection and gathered the M H dataset of over 31 000 users. The Metropolized random walk ignores the semantics of any particular graph. The connection model of the Twitter graph differing from a graph of users who exchange data in P2P networks should not have an impact.

The following is a comparison of various characteristics of the three datasets to see if differences can be explained based on our additional knowledge of the semantics of the Twitter application and its user population.

Our datasets include several additional fields on each user including location and utc offset. Both of these present indicia or clues to the geographical presence of the user. Comparing the crawl and timeline dataset with respect to these fields can also show representativeness of the crawl dataset. We examined the UTC offset attribute of each user. shows the percentage of users in each UTC offset in the crawl and timeline datasets. As can be seen there are many more users in the Japan timezone not captured in the crawl dataset as compared to the timeline dataset. There is also a cultural separation to a certain expected degree. Users with UTC of GMT 9 indicate a large group of users in the .jp domain. They use Japanese to communicate with each other leaving out most of the English language tweeters. Similarly there are smaller clusters of German Italian etc. users who tweet to each other. Based upon this information as depicted in particular data gathering techniques may be more appropriate depending upon the data set that is being targeted for outlier analysis. For example the timeline approach can obtain more recent users and various kinds of users while the crawl approach can obtain only users who are connected to the starting point. If some subsets of users are not connected to the starting point then they would not be represented in the dataset gathered by the crawl approach.

We examined if highly popular users those who have many followers update their status more often than those who likely passively follow more users. This was true in both the crawl and timeline not shown datasets. shows that crawl dataset users who have more than 250 followers send many more status updates than those who follow more than 250 users. The 250 cutoff value was chosen as it was just above the 95th percentile in both datasets. This information can also be used as part of the outlier determining process such as identifying anomalies with respect to the number of status updates for certain groups of users.

Our examination of Twitter usage uses three different data collection techniques and examines their strengths and weaknesses. Based on the above information particular data gathering techniques may be more suited for particular outlier determinations such as using a timeline approach where the outliers are associated with a group of very active users and so forth. It should be further understood that the exemplary embodiments can utilize other data gathering techniques that are not described herein.

While others have assumed sequential growth in userIDs we demonstrated that this is not the case. We also factor in tweet count to show heavy tweeters tend to have a more reciprocal relationship. We further use both the top level domain and UTC offset to identify location of a much larger fraction of users and also examine the growth of users by geography. In addition we examine number of tweets user time of day use sources of tweets and distribution of userIDs.

In this example we examined geographical distribution the user base of a new popular micro content network. We compared the results of our constrained crawl against other datasets to show similarities in results. Analysis can also be performed on the shift in Internet traffic towards program or machine generated data and consumption by processes or filters on behalf of human users. The explosion of automatic generators may lead to further split traffic streams.

OSNs have become very popular and are now an integral part of lives of large fraction of Internet users. Nearly half a billion people are on OSNs. Various characterizations have been carried out about a social graph induced by relationships arising in OSNs. A social graph can be induced by the behavior of individual users or collections of users. Behavior such as friendships formed in OSNs criteria for inclusion or exclusion of uses in groups the application utilized by users and so on can dictate how social graphs are induced by individual and collective behaviors. Macro graphs of OSN users and sub communities thereof can also be identified along with frequent communicants.

The exemplary embodiments can identify induced subgraphs such as described in the above example based on various forms of seed information related to one or more persons or groups on OSNs. Among the applications of the present disclosure is use of the publicly available information for identifying outliers such as for the benefit of law enforcement agencies. Many other applications of the methods described in the present disclosure are possible. For example the present disclosure can be used to identify parties or entities that successfully commercialize goods or services by techniques which identify them as outliers.

The present disclosure provides for identifying or otherwise discovering communities in OSNs. For example we can determine from the twitter crawl that it under represented disconnected groups and the fact that Japanese speakers were disconnected from English Speakers in the data described above is the reason that they were not seen in the crawl. Using ambient or publicly available information combined with intra graph properties of OSN users the exemplary embodiments can quickly isolate such communities. While in some instances outliers may be individuals they may share properties enabling software applications tailored according to the present disclosure to examine them as a group.

Examining a set of associated sub communities and interests of users in an OSN indicates that we could associate users with various induced graphs. These graphs can include 

Each of these associated induced graphs can contribute towards a signature of an OSN user. Many of the associated elements have a varying set of attributes. For example each external application has a set of friends and non friends associated with it along with frequency of communication duration of time spent etc. An external application in the OSN context can be a program that runs on a machine other than that of the OSN set of machines. The interaction with the application is enabled by the OSN. Applications interfacing to OSNs can have a popularity attribute time and frequency of interaction sizes of the groups interacted with etc.

There are several ambient public attributes associated with each OSN user which can be detectable. These include global and local attributes. Global attributes include geographical location and identifiable entities such as phone numbers area code exchange email address zip code etc. . Local attributes include common actions performed while on the OSN. Local attributes can include common actions performed while on the OSN such as clicking on pictures clicking on friends profiles etc. Basically actions performed while a user is logged into the OSN that largely stay inside the OSN i.e. does not require interaction with any entity beyond that of the OSN such as an external application .

With seed information regarding one or more users or a group the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein can isolate a signature of individual or groups of OSN users to determine if they are distinct enough from a random sample of the overall set of OSN users. This can be done in isolation or by examining a collection of OSN users e.g. the seed user and their friends . One way of comparing seed information to a random sample of OSN users is to compare some or all of the induced graphs subject to a size threshold of a total population of OSN users. For example if the seed information is associated with a regional group of a large size then it is unlikely to contribute to distinguish ability of OSN users. In one embodiment the type of seed information can be utilized for determining which of the induced graphs are to be utilized in the analysis.

Suppose a seed belongs to a regional network on an OSN e.g. Facebook having a million users. It would be difficult to identify a person s behavior from any of the other million users based on this attribute alone. If the seed instead belongs to a much smaller regional network with a size of a few hundred then the problem is simplified. Thus by judicious choice of thresholds for the various induced graphs and attributes we can reduce the size of the set of OSN users to be analyzed. If the signature is distinct then additional tailored examination can be carried out. Privacy profiles of users groups or entities can be included in a seed set which can also be compared with that of the random population of OSN users.

It has been determined that communities can be formed on the basis of simple metrics like comparing friends and followers on Twitter or the grouping based on geographical attributes e.g. Japanese Twitter users identified as a result of their choice of Kanji to tweet each other . With seed information of an interested set of users one can examine if OSN users have any special distinguishing properties. With ambient public information about friends of a party identified by seed information one can further reduce the risk of false positives when searching for outliers. Such examination can be carried out in multiple OSNs some of which diverge in their characteristics e.g. symmetrical friendship requirement in FaceBook contrasted to asymmetrical ones in Twitter . Aggregator feeds can also be examined for presence in multiple OSNs.

OSNs like Facebook can have a very large population of users e.g. 300 million users . The present disclosure provides a method to reduce a sample size to locate outliers in OSN networks. Seed information in any format can provide a means to reduce the sample size of users. Seed information can represent any form of information that can identify a subset of a total OSN sample. For example seed information can be represented by a person s interests name of person or persons name of an entity or entities name of friends of a person zip code county static IP address etc. An entity in the present context can mean a corporation a partnership a product goods service or any abstraction which may have relevance in identifying OSN users. Social graphs induced by OSN usage behaviors can be independently analyzed from public information accessible from OSNs.

Additionally generalizations can be made about OSN users and groups thereof such as for example the average number of friends associated with a user the volume of applications used by OSN users the frequency and volume of inter OSN relationships and so on. Seed information can be used to reduce a large sampling size of OSN users to a manageable and searchable level. The social graphs and generalizations derived from publicly available OSNs can be used in conjunction with the seed information to identify outliers to clearly fall outside of the common norm of the social graphs and or generalizations identified ahead of time. With the present method outliers can be identified rapidly without analyzing a full OSN sample size.

In some embodiments the machine operates as a standalone device. In some embodiments the machine may be connected e.g. using a network to other machines. In a networked deployment the machine may operate in the capacity of a server or a client user machine in server client user network environment or as a peer machine in a peer to peer or distributed network environment.

The machine may comprise a server computer a client user computer a personal computer PC a tablet PC a laptop computer a desktop computer a control system a network router switch or bridge or any machine capable of executing a set of instructions sequential or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by that machine. It will be understood that a device of the present disclosure includes broadly any electronic device that provides voice video or data communication. Further while a single machine is illustrated the term machine shall also be taken to include any collection of machines that individually or jointly execute a set or multiple sets of instructions to perform any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein.

The computer system may include a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD a flat panel a solid state display or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system may include an input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker or remote control and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit may include a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein including those methods illustrated above. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory the static memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system . The main memory and the processor also may constitute machine readable media.

Dedicated hardware implementations including but not limited to application specific integrated circuits programmable logic arrays and other hardware devices can likewise be constructed to implement the methods described herein. Applications that may include the apparatus and systems of various embodiments broadly include a variety of electronic and computer systems. Some embodiments implement functions in two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals communicated between and through the modules or as portions of an application specific integrated circuit. Thus the example system is applicable to software firmware and hardware implementations.

In accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure the methods described herein are intended for operation as software programs running on a computer processor. Furthermore software implementations can include but not limited to distributed processing or component object distributed processing parallel processing or virtual machine processing can also be constructed to implement the methods described herein.

The present disclosure contemplates a machine readable medium containing instructions or that which receives and executes instructions from a propagated signal so that a device connected to a network environment can send or receive voice video or data and to communicate over the network using the instructions . The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device .

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present disclosure.

The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories such as a memory card or other package that houses one or more read only non volatile memories random access memories or other re writable volatile memories and magneto optical or optical medium such as a disk or tape. Accordingly the disclosure is considered to include any one or more of a machine readable medium or a distribution medium as listed herein and including art recognized equivalents and successor media in which the software implementations herein are stored.

Although the present specification describes components and functions implemented in the embodiments with reference to particular standards and protocols the disclosure is not limited to such standards and protocols. Each of the standards for Internet and other packet switched network transmission e.g. TCP IP UDP IP HTML HTTP represent examples of the state of the art. Such standards are periodically superseded by faster or more efficient equivalents having essentially the same functions. Accordingly replacement standards and protocols having the same functions are considered equivalents.

The illustrations of embodiments described herein are intended to provide a general understanding of the structure of various embodiments and they are not intended to serve as a complete description of all the elements and features of apparatus and systems that might make use of the structures described herein. Many other embodiments will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. Figures are also merely representational and may not be drawn to scale. Certain proportions thereof may be exaggerated while others may be minimized. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to herein individually and or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed. Thus although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any arrangement calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separately claimed subject matter.

