---

title: Analyzing user-preferred characteristics among merchants
abstract: A system or method is provided to analyze and determine distinguishing or secondary characteristics among merchants. In particular, the system may collect basic merchant information, such as name, type of business, products/services offered, location, owner, and other basic information regarding merchants. The system may determine merchants that are similar in type, size, location, of other factors, based on the basic information. They system may then determine distinguishing or secondary characteristics among similar merchants. The distinguishing or secondary characteristics may be determined from consumers' transactions with the merchants or other data detected by sensors or devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09639873&OS=09639873&RS=09639873
owner: PAYPAL, INC.
number: 09639873
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150323
---
The present invention generally relates to systems and methods for analyzing and leveraging distinguishing characteristics among merchants.

Consumers have many choices of merchants from whom to purchase various types of products or services. However the number of choices may be overwhelming for consumers when selecting a merchant to purchase products or services from. For example multiple gas stations may be located in close proximity to each other. Consumers may have difficulty figuring out the differences if any between the multiple gas stations besides the posted gas prices. Thus there is a need for a system or method that analyzes and determines distinguishing characteristics among merchants specific to user preferences.

Embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure and not for purposes of limiting the same.

According to an embodiment a system or method is provided to analyze and determine distinguishing characteristics among merchants. In particular the system may collect basic merchant information such as name type of business products services offered location owner and other basic information regarding merchants. The system may determine merchants that are similar in type size location of other factors based on the basic information. They system may then determine distinguishing characteristics among similar merchants. The distinguishing characteristics may be determined from consumers transactions with the merchants or other data detected by sensors or devices. Such characteristics may be used to determine which merchant may be recommended to a particular consumer based in part on what the consumer may want from the merchant including non primary purposes purchases or services.

In an embodiment the system may determine peripheral or additional services or products provided by merchants as distinguishing characteristics. For example three gas stations may be located at the same intersection. The system may determine distinguishing characteristics based on user factors and effects on the user factors after users visited the gas stations. In an example all three gas stations may offer pressurized air for car tires. However only one of the three gas stations offers free pressurized air. This can be determined based on the purchase or transaction data of consumers who visited the gas stations. For example the consumers devices may detect that their tire pressure sensors indicate increase in tire air pressure but the consumers are not charged for pressurized air. This indicates that the gas station provides free pressurized air. Other data may be used such as postings on social networks and review sites and or information from a merchant site or provided by the merchant.

In an embodiment the system may determine included or nearby amenities as distinguishing characteristics. For example one of the three gas stations may be located next to a restaurant such that customers may visit the restaurant immediately before or after getting gas at the gas station. This distinguishing characteristic may be determined based on public mapping data review sites and or by monitoring the user s activities including purchases at the restaurant and movement. For example the user s mobile device may detect that the user walks from the gas station to the restaurant on foot without driving. As such having a location immediately next to a restaurant may be a distinguishing characteristic of the gas station.

In an embodiment the system may determine a user s preferences or goals such as health goals or budget goals. The user s preferences or goals may be determined based on the user s input or activities or transactions performed by the user. For example the user may have a health goal of losing weight or a budget goal of saving up for a vacation. The system may recommend merchants based on the merchants distinguishing characteristics and the user s goals or preferences. For example the system may determine that the user has a health goal of losing weight. As such the system may recommend the gas station farthest from a restaurant or at least a restaurant that sells unhealthy food and avoid the gas station located immediately next to the restaurant. As such the system recommends a gas station to prevent the user from eating if it is not a meal time or from eating unhealthy food by reducing the temptation to the user based on the user s health goal and the distinguishing characteristics of the gas station.

In an embodiment the system may monitor the user s behavior and transactions to determine whether the user s behavior and transactions are aligned with the user s goals. Further the system may make recommendations to better help the user follow and achieve the user s goal. For example the system may determine that the user is deviating from the health goal by visiting merchants selling greasy food. The system may recommend travel routes or merchants that are farther away from merchants that sell greasy food to help the user follow the user s health goal.

As such the system determines secondary characteristics at or near similarly located merchants and provides a recommendation to a user for particular merchant based on secondary characteristics that are important to the user. Secondary characteristics include characteristics that are not the main service or type for a merchant. Using the gas station example gas prices is a primary characteristic and secondary characteristics may include free charged air bathroom cleanliness types of food drinks and other items offered or not offered at the gas station types of merchants adjacent to the gas station free charged car washes etc.

System may include a user device a merchant server and a payment provider server in communication over a network . Payment provider server may be maintained by a payment service provider such as PayPal Inc. of San Jose Calif. A user such as a sender or consumer utilizes user device to perform a transaction using payment provider server . User may utilize user device to initiate a payment transaction receive a transaction approval request or reply to the request. Note that transaction as used herein refers to any suitable action performed using the user device including payments transfer of information display of information etc. Although only one merchant server is shown a plurality of merchant servers may be utilized if the user is purchasing products or services from multiple merchants.

User device merchant server and payment provider server may each include one or more processors memories and other appropriate components for executing instructions such as program code and or data stored on one or more computer readable mediums to implement the various applications data and steps described herein. For example such instructions may be stored in one or more computer readable media such as memories or data storage devices internal and or external to various components of system and or accessible over network . Network may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments network may include the Internet or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of networks.

User device may be implemented using any appropriate hardware and software configured for wired and or wireless communication over network . For example in one embodiment user device may be implemented as a personal computer PC a smart phone personal digital assistant PDA laptop computer and or other types of computing devices capable of transmitting and or receiving data such as an iPad from Apple .

User device may include one or more browser applications which may be used for example to provide a convenient interface to permit user to browse information available over network . For example in one embodiment browser application may be implemented as a web browser configured to view information available over the Internet such as a user account for setting up a shopping list and or merchant sites for viewing and purchasing products and services. User device may also include one or more toolbar applications which may be used for example to provide client side processing for performing desired tasks in response to operations selected by user . In one embodiment toolbar application may display a user interface in connection with browser application .

User device may further include other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide desired features to user device . For example other applications may include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or other types of applications.

Applications may also include email texting voice and IM applications that allow user to send and receive emails calls and texts through network as well as applications that enable the user to communicate transfer information make payments and otherwise utilize a smart wallet through the payment provider as discussed above. User device includes one or more user identifiers which may be implemented for example as operating system registry entries cookies associated with browser application identifiers associated with hardware of user device or other appropriate identifiers such as used for payment user device authentication. In one embodiment user identifier may be used by a payment service provider to associate user with a particular account maintained by the payment provider. A communications application with associated interfaces enables user device to communicate within system .

User device may include various sensors and detection devices configured to detect environmental information at the user device . For example the user device may include a temperature sensor configured to detect a temperature at the user device a light sensor configured to detect ambient light a humidity sensor configured to detect humidity an altitude sensor configured to detect altitude a barometer configured to detect ambient pressure a gyroscope and or an accelerometer configured to detect orientation and movement and the like. Thus the user device may detect various environmental changes and settings.

User device also may include communication devices such as a Bluetooth device a Near Field Communication NFC interface and the like. As such the user device may communicate with nearby devices that have detection devices. This allows the user device to gather additional detection data from other devices. For example the user device may communicate with the user s car console via Bluetooth to receive car conditions detected by various sensors in the user s car.

Merchant server may be maintained for example by a merchant or seller offering various products and or services. The merchant may have a physical point of sale POS store front. The merchant may be a participating merchant who has a merchant account with the payment service provider. Merchant server may be used for POS or online purchases and transactions. Generally merchant server may be maintained by anyone or any entity that receives money which includes charities as well as banks and retailers. For example a payment may be a donation to charity or a deposit to a saving account. Merchant server may include a database identifying available products including digital goods and or services e.g. collectively referred to as items which may be made available for viewing and purchase by user . Accordingly merchant server also may include a marketplace application which may be configured to serve information over network to browser of user device . In one embodiment user may interact with marketplace application through browser applications over network in order to view various products food items or services identified in database .

Merchant server also may include a checkout application which may be configured to facilitate the purchase by user of goods or services online or at a physical POS or store front. Checkout application may be configured to accept payment information from or on behalf of user through payment service provider server over network . For example checkout application may receive and process a payment confirmation from payment service provider server as well as transmit transaction information to the payment provider and receive information from the payment provider e.g. a transaction ID . Checkout application may be configured to receive payment via a plurality of payment methods including cash credit cards debit cards checks money orders or the like.

Payment provider server may be maintained for example by an online payment service provider which may provide payment between user and the operator of merchant server . In this regard payment provider server includes one or more payment applications which may be configured to interact with user device and or merchant server over network to facilitate the purchase of goods or services communicate display information and send payments by user of user device .

Payment provider server also maintains a plurality of user accounts each of which may include account information associated with consumers merchants and funding sources such as banks or credit card companies. For example account information may include private financial information of users of devices such as account numbers passwords device identifiers user names phone numbers credit card information bank information or other financial information which may be used to facilitate online transactions by user . Advantageously payment application may be configured to interact with merchant server on behalf of user during a transaction with checkout application to track and manage purchases made by users and which and when funding sources are used.

User accounts also may store a user s goals or preferences. For example the user may have a health goal or a budget goal. User s purchase preferences may align with the user s health or budget goals. The payment provider server may make merchant recommendations to the user based on the user s goals or preferences. Preferences or goals may be based on user defined or user set preferences user purchase history user search history user calendar upcoming birthday anniversary etc. user posts and or posts about the user. In some embodiment the user accounts may store products or services the user is attempting to avoid. For example the user may have a health goal of quitting smoking. Thus the user may wish to avoid merchants that sell cigarettes or cigars. Goals and or preferences are used to determine what may be of interest or disinterest to aid in determining whether a secondary characteristic of a merchant is more or less desirable than other similar merchants in the area.

In some embodiments payment provider server may maintain a merchant database including information related to merchants. For example the merchant database may store basic merchant information such as name location ownership product service offered store hours store size target customers merchant categories competitors and the like. The merchant database also may store unique or distinguishing characteristics of merchants such as peripheral or secondary services or products offered unique location unique hours nearby amenities and merchants and the like. The merchant database may be accessed to recommend merchants to customers. The database may be populated based on merchant provided information information from publicly available sources such as review sites and social networks information provided to the payment provider by users etc.

A transaction processing application which may be part of payment application or separate may be configured to receive information from user device and or merchant server for processing and storage in a payment database . Transaction processing application may include one or more applications to process information from user for processing an order and payment using various selected funding instruments. As such transaction processing application may store details of an order from individual users including funding source used credit options available etc. Payment application may be further configured to determine the existence of and to manage accounts for user as well as create new accounts if necessary.

At step the payment provider server may monitor transactions processed through the merchants In particular the payment provider server may process various transactions such as payment transactions purchase transactions fund transfers and other transactions for various merchants. The transactions may include various transaction information such as the merchant involved in the transaction the customer user involved in the transaction time date location transaction amount items purchased products or services types or methods of payment discounts applied and the like. The payment provider server may collect this transaction information and store them in a transaction database for later reference or analysis.

At step the payment provider server may collect sensor data from the user device and or the merchant server . The user device may include various types of sensors that may detect and generate various types of sensor signals. For example the user device may include an audio sensor a vibration sensor an ambient light sensor a location sensor GPS a Bluetooth Low Energy BLE indoor location sensor a gyroscope accelerometer motion sensor a temperature sensor an altitude sensor a humidity sensor and other sensors for detecting environmental factors. Thus the user device may detect various environmental factors or settings at or near merchants before during or after a transaction with a merchant. The sensor data may be communicated to the payment provider server to provide context for the transaction.

In some embodiments the user device may be connected to other devices that have sensors. For example the user device may be connected to a wearable device of the user . The wearable device may include various types of sensors configured to detect the user s biometrics such as heartbeat body temperature skin conductance movement and the like. The user device may receive various sensor data form the wearable device and may communicate the sensor data to the payment provider server . The biometric sensor data may be used to determine the user s body condition and reactions related to transactions at a merchant.

In some embodiments the user device may be connected other devices such as a car console installed in the user s car entertainment console in the user s home laptops computers merchant s devices and the like. Sensor data generated by sensors in these other devices also may be gathered by the user device and communicated to the payment provider server . For example the user device may receive sensor data related to car conditions from the user s car console. The car may include a rain sensor an oil level sensor a tire pressure sensor an engine condition sensor an engine temperature sensor various fluid level sensors various parts condition sensors and the like. Sensor data from the car condition sensors may be used to determine any changes or repairs done to the car at a car mechanic gas station or other car related merchants.

At step the payment provider server may compare and contrast merchants. In particular the payment provider server may first organize merchants based on their basic information. For example merchants who offer similar products and or services may be grouped together. In another example merchants who are located near each other may be grouped together. In still another example merchants who target similar types or demographics of customers may be grouped together. In yet another example merchants who have similar operation size franchise and the like may be grouped together.

As similar merchants are identified the system may calculate similarity scores among merchants. The similarity score may indicate how similar one merchant is to another. For example a higher similarity score may indicate that two merchants are very similar and have many similar parameters such as location types of product services and the like. The system may focus on one or more main factors such as types of product service offered and location when comparing merchants by giving these factors greater weight in the similarity score calculation. As such the system may identify competing merchants who are located in the same area and offer similar product service. The system may select the competing merchants and attempt to determine distinguishing characteristics between them. For example the system may identify gas stations located at the same intersection apparel stores located in the same mall that target similar age and or gender of customers auto repair shops in the same neighborhood restaurants on the same street and the like.

At step the system may determine distinguishing characteristics of merchants. As noted above in step the system may select similar merchants such as merchants that offer similar products services located near each other and or target similar customers and may attempt to determine distinguishing characteristics among the similar merchants. The distinguishing characteristics may be hidden and may not be obviously known based on the merchant s basic information. In particular the system may determine these hidden and distinguishing characteristics based on transaction data processed at the merchants sensor data detected at the merchants merchant provided information publicly available information such as from a scrape of various web sites customer provided information directly or indirectly through transactions and the like.

The payment service provider may process transactions for the merchants and may utilize the transaction data to infer or determine distinguishing characteristics of merchants. In particular the payment provider server may compare and contrast transaction data processed at similar merchants to determine any differences or if any merchants have a unique trait or characteristic. For example the payment provider server may analyze transaction data from three gas stations A B and C that are located at the same intersection. The payment provider server may determine that gas stations A and B include car repair charges on some of the customers purchase transactions while gas station C never has car repair charges on customers purchase transactions. This difference may indicate that gas station C does not offer car repair service.

The payment service provider also may determine distinguishing characteristics of merchants based on sensor data detected at the user device or other devices connected to the user device . For example the system may analyze transaction data of gas stations A B and C and note that some of the customers who visited gas stations A and B paid for tire inflation service while customers who visited gas station C never pay for tire inflation service. Further the system may analyze sensor data from the customers user devices and cars and note that some of the customers who visited gas station C had their tire inflated based on the tire pressure sensor data detected by their cars tire pressure sensors. As such the system may determine that gas station C offers free pressurized air for tire inflation. Thus free tire inflation may be a distinguishing characteristic of gas station C. If customers who visited gas station C are not detected as having their tire pressure changed the system may determine that gas station C does not offer air services.

In another example ambient noise sensors of user devices of customers may be used to detect ambient noise at merchants. For example the ambient noise sensors of customers may pick up construction noise at a hotel. The system may determine that the hotel is under construction which is a negative distinguishing characteristic of the hotel albeit a temporary characteristic. When the construction noise no longer is detected by customers devices the system may determine that the hotel is newly renovated which may be a positive distinguishing characteristic of the hotel.

In still another example based on the transaction data and the rain sensor data from customers cars the system may determine that a car repair shop offers free car washes. In particular the customers transaction data do not show charges for car wash service but the rain sensors on the customers cars detected water drops during service at the car shop when weather conditions at the time showed no rain or moisture. The system may determine that the customers cars are washed for free during service.

In yet another example based on the location of the merchant and the location where the car is parked as detected by a location detection device on the car the system may determine whether the merchant has convenient parking for customers. Further based on the movement of the customer s car and the movement location of the customer at the merchant the system may determine whether the merchant offers valet parking service by which the merchant s personnel parks the car for the customer.

In some embodiments the system may monitor transactions and movements of customers before and or after the customers visit a particular merchant to determine other merchants or amenities located near or accessible from the particular merchant. For example some customers who visited a gas station also visited a pizza shop immediately after the gas station as indicated by the transaction data purchase pizza immediately after purchasing gas and the location movement of the customers. The system may determine that the gas station may be located immediately near a pizza shop or that the pizza shop is located within the gas station. The system may determine that the nearby pizza shop is a distinguishing characteristic of the gas station.

In some embodiments the system may note that based on the volume and or amount of transactions one of the similar merchants is disproportionally popular or unpopular compared to the other similar merchants. The system also may detect a popular merchant based on the ambient noise detected inside a merchant s location such as a noisy restaurant indicating popular and crowded restaurant. The system may analyze the transaction data the sensor data and other available information to determine certain distinguishing characteristics that cause a merchant to be more less popular. For example the system may analyze the movement and traffic patterns of customers who arrive and leave gas stations located at the same intersection. The system may determine that the popular gas station is located at a corner of an intersection that allows easier access for customers entering and exiting the gas station.

In another example the system may analyze the biometric sensor data of customers who visited similar restaurants and may determine that more customers who visited a popular restaurant have biometric signatures of being in a pleasant state. The biometric signatures may include heartbeat body temperature skin conductance and the like as detected by biometric sensors included in a wearable device of a customer. This may indicate that the restaurant offers good service and or good food including highly rated or popular food of a certain type such as a particular restaurant having a really good hot dog or pizza. The system may also analyze communication from customers regarding the restaurant such as pictures comments reviews and other communication posted online such as on social media networks review sites and the like. The system may determine distinguishing characteristics of the restaurant based on various information.

Thus the process may allow the system to collect information about the merchants from various sources including basic information provided by the merchants and or customers both directly and indirectly transaction data sensor data location information customer communication and the like and may determine distinguishing characteristics of merchants. In particular distinguishing characteristics among similar merchants may be determined to help customers select merchants. The distinguishing characteristics may be permanent or temporary which changes over time such as seasonal or certain days of the week. The system may update the distinguishing characteristics over time to reflect the most up to date information.

At step the system may determine user preferences or goals. In an embodiment the user may provide or input user s goals of preferences. For example the user may have a health goal such as a target weight loss training for a marathon or the like. In another example the user may have a financial goal such as saving a certain amount of money. In still another example the user may have a work or school related goal for certain achievements or targets. In some embodiments the system may determine the user s goals based on the user s activities as noted in step .

In some embodiments the system may determine the user s current preferences based on the time location and environment. For example if it is meal time a preference may be a restaurant or a specific type of restaurant based on the user s food preferences. In another example if the user s car is detected as being dirty or the user has a date the next night a preference may be a car wash. Thus the system may analyze the environmental conditions user s to do list schedule calendar time location season and the like to the user s current preference. For example if there are three nearby gas stations and the user needs gas and all three gas stations are about the same price secondary factors based on user preferences may be used to suggest one of the gas stations to the user. In particular the importance of the secondary factor is based on what the user may currently want eating healthy buying a gift getting air in tire getting a car wash a clean restroom maybe a user who has been on the road for a long time buying cigarettes etc.

In some embodiments the system may help the user follow a long term goal when the user s current preference does not align with the user s long term goal. For example the user may have a current preference of buying fast food when the user is near a food court but the user may have a long term goal of no fast food diet. Thus the system may help the user avoid buying fast food by directing the user away from the food court or by recommending alternative healthy food places to the user .

At step the system may determine user activities and or transactions deviating from preferences or goals. In particular the system may analyze user activities that do not match the user s goals or preferences. For example the system may determine that the user visited a pizza shop and purchased a slice of pizza. However the user currently has a no pizza diet plan. As such the system may determine that the user is deviating or violating the user s goal or preference.

In some embodiments the system may attempt to determine a reason for the user s deviation from the goals or preferences. For example the user may have purchased the pizza because the user was getting gas at a nearby gas station and was enticed by the pizza shop located next to the gas station. Thus the system may analyze transaction data sensor data and other user activities of the user to determine the cause or reason for the deviation or violation.

In some embodiments the system may learn or determine the user s tendencies and self control with respect to different items the user should avoid based on the goals or preferences. The system may calculate a trust score relating to these items that the user should avoid. A higher trust score for an item means that the user has no problem with the item and has high probability of success in resisting the item. On the other hand a lower trust score for an item may indicate that the user has low probability of success in resisting the item. The trust score may be calculated based on the user activities in view of a purchase opportunity presented to the user . For example the system may determine that the user has been presented many opportunities to purchase a prohibited item but the user did not purchased the prohibited item. Thus the system may calculate a higher trust score for the user with respect to the prohibited item. In an embodiment the trust score may be determined based on the user s transaction data such as the frequency of prohibited items purchased the last time prohibited items were purchased and the like.

At step the system may recommend merchants based on user preferences or goals and distinguishing characteristics of merchants. Based on the reasons or causes of the user s deviation or violation of the user s goals or preferences the system may recommend merchants routes and or schedules to help the user keep the user s goals or preferences. Further the recommendations may also be made in view of the distinguishing characteristics of merchants. For example the system may determine that the user is easily enticed to purchase a pizza if the user is near a pizza shop based on the trust scores. Thus the system may avoid merchants that are near pizza shops. Further the system may recommend travel routes and or schedules that avoid pizza shops.

In an embodiment the system may include health goal service which is configured to analyze and determine health goals of the user. As such the user s health goals health rules and or preferences may be taken into consideration along with distinguishing characteristics of merchants for merchant recommendations. For example the user may be on a particular type of diet such as a low fat diet or the user may be allergic to gluten or wheat. The system may digitally harvest menus from food merchants and or customer transaction data to determine merchants that should be avoided by the user. The health goal service may filter out merchants that should be avoided by the user based on the user s goals or preferences. If the health goal service clears a merchant then the system may recommend that merchant to the user.

The health goal service may assign scores to potential merchants based on the health goals of the user in view of the distinguishing characteristics of the merchants. For example a pizza shop that offers good salads may receive a higher score than pizza shops that do not offer healthy alternatives. This allows users to make judgment calls in situations where there is not best choice but only the least bad choice when pizza shops are the only available food options. The health goal service and the system may monitor user behavior when a place that is not recommended is visited by the user such as a pizza shop with salads when the user is on a diet. If the user s transaction data indicates that the user ends up purchasing items or services that are restricted by the health goal service the system may determine that the user is violating the health goals. As such the system and the health goal service may become stricter for successive recommendations avoiding all places that offer restricted items because the user is not able to resist the restricted items when they are presented to them.

In an embodiment the health goal service also may data mine calorie counts from merchants food menus such as via public API service calls. For example restaurants food chains and other food merchants may post calorie counts of the items they offer online. The system and or the health goal service may compare calorie counts of different food items to determine the relative health benefit of the food items. For example if a salad actually has more calories than a slice of pizza then the user s choice to purchase a slice of pizza instead of a salad may not count against the user. In some embodiments the health goal service may take into account the portion and size of food items purchased by the user. Portion and size information may be determined from user s transaction data such as large or small fries. Thus the health goal service may consider portion and size as factors in making recommendations for the user. Further portion control based on transaction data or transaction history may be used to determine if the user has met his or her health goal. If the user has met the health goal the event may be fed back into the system for the user for future recommendations. Thus the system may learn the user s habits and tendencies over time. In some embodiments the system may make similar recommendations for similar users or users who have similar health goals. As such the system may crowd source health goal recommendations and results from the crowd to make recommendations for a particular user.

Thus a service provider may provide one or more recommended merchants to a user that satisfies both a primary purpose of the user visiting the merchant and secondary reasons based on preferences and or goals which can be based on habit history user defined information current conditions etc. . For example if multiple merchants offer the same primary service products and are located near each other or along a route of the user the user may not know which one to visit especially if the primary service products have similar pricing. In that case secondary factors considerations of the merchants may be taken into account so that the user is recommended one or more merchants offering a secondary factor consideration that is desirable to the user which allows a system to provide an informed recommendation that is beneficial to the user.

The above processes and may be executed by user device . In some embodiments the processes and may be executed at merchant device or payment provider server . In some other embodiments above processes and may be executed by one or more of user device merchant device and payment provider server in coordination with each other. Note that the various steps and processes described herein may be omitted combined and or performed in a different sequence as desired.

Computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information data signals and information between various components of computer system . Components include an input output I O component that processes a user action such as selecting keys from a keypad keyboard selecting one or more buttons or links etc. and sends a corresponding signal to bus . I O component may also include an output component such as a display and a cursor control such as a keyboard keypad mouse etc. . An optional audio input output component may also be included to allow a user to use voice for inputting information by converting audio signals. Audio I O component may allow the user to hear audio. A transceiver or network interface transmits and receives signals between computer system and other devices such as another user device a merchant server or a payment provider server via network . In one embodiment the transmission is wireless although other transmission mediums and methods may also be suitable. A processor which can be a micro controller digital signal processor DSP or other processing component processes these various signals such as for display on computer system or transmission to other devices via a communication link . Processor may also control transmission of information such as cookies or IP addresses to other devices.

Components of computer system also include a system memory component e.g. RAM a static storage component e.g. ROM and or a disk drive . Computer system performs specific operations by processor and other components by executing one or more sequences of instructions contained in system memory component . Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In various implementations non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . In one embodiment the logic is encoded in non transitory computer readable medium. In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave optical and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EEPROM FLASH EEPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by computer system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of computer systems coupled by communication link to the network e.g. such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The foregoing disclosure is not intended to limit the present disclosure to the precise forms or particular fields of use disclosed. As such it is contemplated that various alternate embodiments and or modifications to the present disclosure whether explicitly described or implied herein are possible in light of the disclosure. Having thus described embodiments of the present disclosure persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is limited only by the claims.

