---

title: Prevention of display overlap in a user interface for an image forming apparatus
abstract: An information processing apparatus includes an acquisition unit configured to acquire status information of an image forming apparatus; and an information display unit configured to constantly display the status information of the image forming apparatus in a first region on a display device, to display setting information regarding image processing to be performed in the image forming apparatus in a second region on the display device, the second region being adjacent to the first region, and to display a relation display element related to the setting information at a position so as not to overlap the relation display element with the first region.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09639302&OS=09639302&RS=09639302
owner: Ricoh Company, Ltd.
number: 09639302
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20151211
---
The present application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 to Japanese Patent Application No. 2014 260113 filed Dec. 24 2014. The contents of this application are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The disclosures herein generally relate to an information processing apparatus a computer readable recording medium storing a program for causing a computer to execute a process and a user interface.

For an image forming apparatus having a function such as a printer an operator sets a print condition or the like from a user interface in the following referred to as UI provided by the image forming apparatus. Moreover in an image forming apparatus for so called commercial printing which prints a large amount of documents for business use and binds books an image forming apparatus suitable for production printing the UI is not only used for setting print conditions but also utilized for managing a work flow in which print processes for a print job are defined.

In the above described image forming apparatuses in association with introduction of higher functions information that can be managed increases and information to be displayed on the UI also increases. However information that can be displayed on one UI at a time is restricted. Conventionally a UI which takes account of operability and convenience for the operator has been studied for example see Japanese Patent No. 4895613 . Japanese Patent No. 4895613 discloses an image forming apparatus that can display by switching between a basic screen and a simple screen which is different from the basic screen and displays operation condition items a number of which is less than that displayed in the basic screen. Moreover Japanese Patent No. 4895613 describes displaying a simplified screen as a pop up screen by the operator selecting input keys displayed on the basic screen. Since detailed items related to the input keys are displayed on the pop up screen the operator becomes able to utilize information with display size greater than an area of a display device.

It is a general object of at least one embodiment of the present invention to provide an information processing apparatus a computer readable recording medium storing a program for causing a computer to execute a process and a user interface that substantially obviate one or more problems caused by the limitations and disadvantages of the related art.

In one embodiment an information processing apparatus includes an acquisition unit configured to acquire status information of an image forming apparatus and an information display unit configured to constantly display the status information of the image forming apparatus in a first region on a display device to display setting information regarding image processing to be performed in the image forming apparatus in a second region on the display device the second region being adjacent to the first region and to display a relation display element related to the setting information at a position so as not to overlap the relation display element with the first region.

In another embodiment a non transitory computer readable storage medium stores a program for causing a computer of an information processing apparatus to execute a process of constantly displaying on a display device status information of an image forming apparatus. The process includes acquiring the status information of the image forming apparatus displaying constantly the status information of the image forming apparatus in a first region on the display device displaying setting information regarding image processing to be performed in the image forming apparatus in a second region on the display device the second region being adjacent to the first region and displaying a relation display element related to the setting information at a position so as not to overlap the relation display element with the first region.

In yet another embodiment a user interface for constantly indicating status information of an image forming apparatus includes a first display element in which setting information regarding image processing to be performed in the image forming apparatus is displayed a second display element in which the status information of the image forming apparatus is constantly displayed and a third display element which is related to the setting information displayed in the first display element and is displayed overlapped with the first display element but not overlapped with the second display element.

In the following embodiments of the present invention will be described with reference to the accompanying drawings.

Then in the present embodiment the present status display area is an area for displaying the present status of the image forming apparatus and is not hidden by a pop up screen .

Therefore by the UI according to the present embodiment an operator of the image forming apparatus can constantly perceive the present status of the image forming apparatus.

Meanwhile constantly means that the present status display area is always displayed without being hidden. However it may be hidden temporarily or transiently such as in the middle of a screen transition. Moreover it may be hidden by a pointing device such as a mouse cursor.

In the end user environment a client PC is arranged. The client PC in which a work flow application for a POD print task is installed receives an operation by a user and generates a print job.

The client PC has a collective printing function for pasting a plurality of logical page images on a paper face Number Up imposition function and an image editing function for adding a header a footer a page number or the like. Moreover the client PC can assign an instruction such as punching stapling or the like. These instructions or settings are described in a JDF Job Definition Format . The JDF may be referred to as a job ticket an operating instruction a print instruction or the like.

The POD print system environment includes a process management unit a digital print unit and a post press unit which are coupled via the network . The process management unit controls an operation of each process of the digital print unit and the post press unit in the POD print system environment to unify management of a work flow of the POD print system environment .

Meanwhile the illustrated configuration is an example. The print system may not include the independent process management unit which is integrated with the digital print unit or with the post press unit .

The process management unit receives a print job from the end user environment and stores the print job. The print job includes a JDF and a PDL Page Description Language . In the JDF various print conditions are described as described above. On the other hand in the PDL are image data which are objects to be printed. Meanwhile the PDL originally meant a language for describing drawing contents of a page image a rasterized image . But in the present embodiment the PDL means data described in the PDL. The PDL includes PDF Portable Document Format Postscript PCL Printer Control Language RPDL Ricoh Page Description Language or the like.

Moreover the process management unit includes a PC server . The PC server receives an operation by the operator to construct an operation in each process as a work flow based on the print job sent from the end user environment or to perform scheduling efficiently for the operations of the digital print unit or the post press unit . A status of the digital print unit or the post press unit is sent to the PC server thereby the operator can confirm a progress status of each print job in the work flow presence absence of an error or the like.

After the setting of the work flow is performed the PC server sends the print job to the digital print unit to perform printing. Moreover print pieces are conveyed to the post press unit and are bound or the like by the post press unit according to the instruction from the PC server . Meanwhile the print job may be sent directly to the post press unit from the digital print unit .

The digital print unit is configured to include various image forming apparatuses a printer for production a high speed color ink jet printer or a printer apparatus such as a color monochrome MFP Multi Functional Peripheral . In the digital print unit the DFE Digital Front End is arranged. The DFE is also referred to as a printer control device or an image processing device and control printing by the image forming apparatus . The DFE may be separated from the image forming apparatus as shown in or may be integrated with the image forming apparatus . The DFE acquires the print job from the process management unit generates drawing data raster data for the image forming apparatus for commercial printing forming a toner image or an image by ink using the JDF and the PDL and sends the drawing data to the image forming apparatus .

A monitor may be coupled to the DFE . On the monitor the same UI as the UI which the PC server displays on a display device is displayed. In this case the operator can confirm the progress status of each print job in the work flow presence absence of an error or the like by watching the monitor . Meanwhile the monitor or the display device is an example of the display device.

Meanwhile the digital print unit may include the image forming apparatus directly coupled to a finisher a post processing device for performing a post treatment post processing such as paper folding saddle stitching book binding case binding or punching for a printed recording paper.

The post press unit includes a post processing device such as a paper folding device a saddle stitching book binding device a case binding device a cutting device a sealing device or a gathering device according to an operation instruction for a print piece post press job received from the process management unit . Moreover the post press unit executes a finishing treatment such as paper folding saddle stitching book binding case binding cutting sealing or gathering. The post press unit includes a post processing device for performing a post treatment post processing after digital printing such as a stapler a hollow punching device or the like.

The CPU executes a program using the RAM as a work memory to control the whole DFE . The auxiliary storage device is a non volatile memory such as a HDD Hard Disk Drive or a SSD Solid State Drive . The auxiliary storage device stores in addition to the program having a function which will be described later an OS Operating System a print job and various types of data.

The communication device is a modem a LAN card or the like and is coupled to the network to communicate with the end user environment the process management unit or the post press unit . The communication may be performed wirelessly or by wire. Moreover the DFE may communicate with the image forming apparatus via the communication device or may communicate with the image forming apparatus via a cable dedicated line such as a USB Universal Serial Bus .

The input device is a keyboard or a mouse which receives an operation or an input by the operator. The keyboard includes a plurality of keys for receiving characters values various types of instructions or the like and receives inputs from them. The mouse receives a move of a mouse pointer selection or execution of various types of instructions selection of a processing object and the like.

The display control unit is coupled to the monitor and displays the UI on the monitor according to an instruction from the CPU . Meanwhile in a case where a touch panel is formed in the monitor the touch panel can receive a selection or the like of items of the UI displayed on the monitor .

The recording medium I F can attach or detach a portable recording medium and write data into the recording medium and read out data from the recording medium according to an instruction from the CPU . For the recording medium various types of media can be used including for example a medium which records optically electrically or magnetically such as an optical disk a USB memory or an SD Secure Digital card trademark registered a semiconductor memory which records information electrically such as a flash memory or the like.

Meanwhile the program is a file in an installable format or an executable format and is distributed in a state stored in the recording medium or distributed by being downloaded from a server for delivering program via the network .

In the present embodiment not only the DFE but also the PC server in or an arbitrary information processing apparatus which can be coupled to the network can display the UI . However hardware configuration diagram of the PC server and the arbitrary information processing apparatus can be realized by the same configuration as .

The DFE includes an operation input reception unit a UI control unit a Web server function provision unit a transmission reception unit a job reception unit a system control unit a job control unit a RIP unit and a printer control unit . These elements the operation input reception unit the UI control unit the Web server function provision unit the transmission reception unit the job reception unit the system control unit the job control unit the RIP unit and the printer control unit are realized by the CPU executing the program and cooperating with various pieces of hardware shown in .

Moreover the DFE includes a job data storage unit and an image storage unit constructed in the RAM shown in the auxiliary storage device or the recording medium . The job data storage unit and the image storage unit may be disposed on a network.

The job reception unit is realized by the CPU shown in executing commands of the program the communication device and the like and receives a print job from the PC server via the network . The job reception unit may receive the print job directly from the client PC . The job reception unit for example extracts the JDF and the PDL which are the print jobs from the received data and outputs to the system control unit . For example as a log a unique job number reception date and time end date and time present executing process and the like are recorded associated with the print job.

Table 1 illustrates an example of information included in the JDF. The JDF includes the job information the EDIT information the Finishing information and the like. However the above described JDF is an example and may include a wide variety of pieces of information necessary for printing.

The system control unit is realized by the CPU shown in executing commands of the program and performs job control of the print job RIP control and printer control. First the received print job is stored in the job data storage unit or is output to the job control unit . For example in a case where the JDF describes that it is to be stored in the job data storage unit i.e. the operator executes the print job later it is stored in the job data storage unit . In a case where the job control unit is executing another print job it is temporarily stored in the job data storage unit and after the other job ends it is output to the job control unit .

Moreover the system control unit which receives an instruction to execute a print job from the operation input reception unit or the PC server outputs the print job stored in the job data storage unit to the job control unit . Moreover the system control unit causes the printer control unit to print the drawing data which the job control unit causes the RIP unit to generate. The operation input reception unit is an example of an operation reception means.

The system control unit manages statuses of respective print jobs executing in a queue standby state executed state and the like and records them into the above described log. The system control unit passes the JDF including the statuses of the respective print jobs and device status information Di which will be described later to the Web server function provision unit .

The job control unit realized by the CPU shown in executing an instruction of the program acquires a setting regarding printing from the JDF of the print job received from the system control unit . Moreover the job control unit generates a drawing command from the JDF and the PDL and causes the RIP unit to generate drawing data.

The RIP unit is realized by the CPU shown in executing an instruction of the program executes a drawing command and performs a rasterization and thereby generates drawing data. The generated drawing data are stored in the image storage unit . The image storage unit is a storing means in which the generated drawing data are stored.

The printer control unit is realized by the CPU shown in executing an instruction of the program and is coupled to the image forming apparatus . The printer control unit reads out the drawing data stored in the image storage unit and sends the data to the image forming apparatus and thereby performs printing. The printer control unit sends finishing information acquired from the job control unit to the image forming apparatus . The finishing information specifies a stapler a puncher information regarding folding trimming an output tray an input tray or the like.

Moreover the printer control unit communicates with the image forming apparatus to acquire the device status information Di of the image forming apparatus . Table 2 illustrates an example of the device status information Di.

The device status information D is for example a configuration of device a status of device a counter print condition job progress information or the like. The device status information D shown in Table 2 is only an example and may include all pieces of information that can be acquired from the image forming apparatus or useful information among the pieces of information. Moreover the printer control unit determines the communication status based on whether the device status information Di can be acquired from the image forming apparatus . The printer control unit passes the device status information Di including the above described communication status to the system control unit .

The operation input reception unit is realized by the CPU shown in executing an instruction of the program and the input device and receives a variety of operations and inputs by the operator .

The UI control unit is realized by the CPU shown in executing an instruction of the program and the display control unit and displays a UI on the monitor . Details will be explained for a UI generation unit of the PC server .

The Web server function provision unit is realized by the CPU shown in executing an instruction of the program and operates as a Web server for the PC server or an arbitrary information processing apparatus. The Web server function provision unit acquires a JDF of each print job and device status information Di from the system control unit and generates UI information that the PC server can interpret. The UI information is for example generated by FLASH trademark registered which uses HTML Hyper Text Markup Language XML Extensible Markup Language or JSON JavaScript Object Notation and Action Script as main languages. That is the UI information is provided as a Web application or a Web page.

The transmission reception unit is realized by the CPU shown in executing an instruction of the program and by the communication device or the like and sends the UI information indicated by UI in to the PC server . Moreover the transmission reception unit receives operation information Op indicating a content of operation of the operator from the PC server .

Subsequently functions of the PC server will be explained. The PC server includes a transmission reception unit an operation input reception unit and a UI generation unit . The above described units the transmission reception unit the operation input reception unit and the UI generation unit are realized by the CPU executing the program and the UI information and cooperating with various hardware shown in .

The transmission reception unit is realized by the CPU shown in executing an instruction of the program and by the communication device or the like and receives UI information from the DFE . Moreover the transmission reception unit sends operation information Op to the DFE . As a communication protocol for example HTTP REST Representational State Transfer SOAP Simple Object Access Protocol or the like is used but it is not limited to them.

The operation input reception unit is realized by the CPU shown in executing an instruction of the program and the UI information and by the input device and receives a variety of operations and input by the operator . The information that is input to and received by the operation input reception unit is the operation information Op. The operation input reception unit is an example of an operation reception means.

The UI generation unit is realized by the CPU shown in executing an instruction of the program and the UI information and by the display control unit and generates and displays an UI to be displayed on the display device coupled to the PC server .

The UI generation unit further includes a present status generation unit a screen transition menu generation unit a various information generation unit a pop up screen generation unit and a setting holding unit . The present status generation unit generates a present status to be displayed in the present status display area . The present status display area may be referred to as status bar . The screen transition menu generation unit generates a screen transition menu to be displayed in the screen transition menu display area . The various information generation unit generates various pieces of information to be displayed in the various information display area . The pop up screen generation unit analyzes the UI information and generates a pop up screen .

The UI generation unit arranges the present status in the present status display area arranges the screen transition menu in the screen transition menu display area and arranges the various pieces of information in the various information display area . The present status display area the screen transition menu display area and the various information display area are arranged inside a program window created by the program . Positions of the respective areas inside the program window have been determined in advance. Or the operator may set the positions of the respective areas. Moreover the UI generation unit determines the arrangement of the pop up screen so as not to overlap the present status display area .

The setting holding unit stores a setting regarding displaying of the UI which is set by the operator . The setting holding unit sets for example which of the pop up screen and the enlarged part of the present status display area is given priority. The enlarged part of the present status display area will be explained with reference to .

However it is known that it is difficult to customize displaying on the user side by the HTML . Therefore in the present embodiment the DFE as a Web application described in HTML and SWF Small Web Format generates UI information and thereby it becomes possible to change flexibly the UI on the user side. The SWF is a file of a program generated by FLASH registered trademark . The SWF is embedded into HTML data via JavaScript registered trademark .

In order to execute the SWF by the PC server a player for executing the SWF is required to be installed in the browser software . The player is one of plug ins for adding functions to the browser software . Therefore the PC server in which the player is installed in the browser software executes the UI information thereby it becomes possible to change flexibly the UI on the user side.

Moreover the PC server executes the SWF and thereby HTTP communication or the like can be performed asynchronously with the DFE . That is the PC server can communicate with the DFE without causing a screen displayed on the display device to transition.

Meanwhile the method for realizing the UI generation unit using FLASH trademark registered as described above is an example. The PC server may receive the UI information and display the UI by using HTML5 JavaScript AjaX processing is progressed by sending receiving data in an XML or JSON format to from a server without reloading Web pages and the like.

The UI control unit of the above described DFE can be realized in the same way as the UI generation unit of the PC server . That is in the case where the UI control unit is provided with a function of the browser software the player or the like the UI control unit acquires UI information from the Web server function provision unit and thereby displays UI on the monitor .

By configuring the UI control unit as above it is possible to display the UI on any of the monitor and on the display device by the same mechanism and thereby cost of development can be reduced.

Meanwhile the UI control unit may display the UI on the monitor by a different mechanism from that of the PC server displaying the UI on the display device . The mechanism without using browser software includes for example a method for analyzing by the UI control unit UI information described in Visual BASIC Trademark registered Visual C Trademark registered Java Trademark registered or the like and displaying.

The UI according to the present embodiment can present a wide variety of pieces of information. Moreover an operator can customize the UI . Therefore the UI described as follows will be explained only as an example.

The present status display area includes a status display part a job information display part a job reception stop button a job reception start button an error reset button an information display part a device icon unit and an open close button .

The status display part displays a communication status with the image forming apparatus . The communication status with the image forming apparatus includes READY indicating that the DFE can communicate Not Ready indicating that communication is impossible or the like. The Web server function provision unit determines the communication status with the image forming apparatus based on a communication status included in the device status information Di.

The job information display part displays a job name of a currently executing print job it may be a filename of an object to be printed a progress status an elapsed time for a process and a remaining time for a process . The above described pieces of information are obtained by modifying the JDF and the device status information Di and displaying. An example of the modification will be explained. The Web server function provision unit acquires a total number of pages and a number of copies of the currently executing print job from the JDF output by the system control unit and a number of printed sheets that the printer control unit obtains from the image forming apparatus . The progress status can be calculated by dividing number of printed sheets by a product of total number of pages to be printed and number of copies i.e. number of printed sheets total number of pages number of copies . Moreover the Web server function provision unit obtains the elapsed time for the process by subtracting from the current time the execution start time for the print job acquired from the system control unit . Moreover the Web server function provision unit calculates a print time per one page print speed until the current time from the number of pages of printed sheets and the elapsed time for process. The Web server function provision unit obtains the remaining time for the process by dividing a number of pages of remaining sheets by the print speed. Meanwhile the above described modification may be performed by the present status generation unit of the PC server .

The job reception stop button is a button for stopping receiving print jobs by the operator for the DFE . In a case where the image forming apparatus stops for example the operator holds the job reception stop button down so that the DFE does not further receive print jobs as an emergency treatment. In a case of detecting by the operation information Op or the operation input reception unit of the DFE that the job reception stop button is held down the system control unit prevents the job reception unit from receiving print jobs. Then a new print job becomes unable to be received.

The job reception start button is a button for restarting receiving print jobs which have been stopped by the job reception stop button . For example in a case where the image forming apparatus starts operations the operator holds the job reception start button down. In a case of detecting by the operation information Op or the operation input reception unit of the DFE that the job reception start button is held down the system control unit restarts receiving print jobs by the job reception unit . Then a new print job becomes able to be received.

The error reset button is used in a case where some error occurs in the image forming apparatus . In such a case the error is reported to the DFE . Even if the operator corrects the error in the image forming apparatus it may not be reported to the DFE that the error is corrected and the record that the error is detected may remain in the DFE . In this case the DFE may keep a print job stopped and productivity is reduced. Therefore the operator after correcting the error in the image forming apparatus holds the error reset button down in order to erase surely the record of the error from the DFE .

The information display part displays an information icon for calling the operator s attention in a case where there is information that needs to inform the operator . As an example a case where there is information that needs to inform the operator regarding the print condition will be explained. The system control unit keeps a preferred print condition as shown in Table 3.

The system control unit determines whether the present print condition described in the JDF coincides with the preferred print condition. In a case where they are different from each other the system control unit reports to the Web server function provision unit that the print conditions are different from each other along with the preferred print condition and the present print condition. The above described information is included for example in the device status information Di. The Web server function provision unit generates an information icon such as i to be displayed on the information display part . Meanwhile the present status generation unit of the PC server may generate an information icon.

Since the present print condition is described in the JDF and can be changed by the operator the present print condition is not necessarily erroneous. Then by displaying that the present print condition is different from the preferred print condition the operator can handle the print condition arbitrarily without feeling confused.

The device icon unit displays a device icon which mimics an appearance of the image forming apparatus . In a case where an error occurs in the image forming apparatus an error occurrence location in the device icon is indicated by red color for example. The Web server function provision unit analyzes the device status information Di and identifies an error occurrence location in the image forming apparatus . Then the error occurrence location in the device icon is changed to red or the like. Meanwhile the present status generation unit of the PC server may generate a device icon

The open close button is a button for enlarging the present status display area by the operator and for returning to a normal state as shown in after enlarging the display. The enlarged present status display area will be explained with reference to . Meanwhile modes of the open close button are preferably different from each other between the normal state and a state of the enlarged display.

UI information of the present status display area generated by the Web server function provision unit is sent to the PC server or the UI control unit . The transmission reception unit of the PC server or the UI control unit cyclically acquires the UI information and the present status generation unit updates the UI in real time. A length of cycle only has to be an extent that real time is guaranteed e.g. from less than 1 second to 1 minute or so . Moreover the length need not to be fixed.

Since the present status display area is displayed constantly the operator can determine constantly whether to communicate with the image forming apparatus the status display part a progress status of a print job the job information display part presence or absence of a matter requiring notice the information display part and presence or absence of an error the device icon unit . Moreover the operator can prevent the DFE from receiving print jobs at any time if necessary the job reception stop button and can restart it the job reception start button . Moreover an error can be reset the error reset button . Moreover it is possible to confirm that an error occurs and a location of error the device icon .

Therefore the operator can perceive constantly the status of the image forming apparatus and a time period in which the image forming apparatus stops can be minimized.

The screen transition menu display area includes a screen transition button a print condition setting button and a help button .

The screen transition button is a button for switching by the operator among various pieces of information displayed in the various information display area . The various pieces of information are associated with one or more of each of buttons operation jobs configuration and maintenance as shown in figures. In a case where the operator holds down the screen transition button the various pieces of information associated with the screen transition button are displayed on the various information display area . Therefore even in a case of many types of information being displayed on the display device or the monitor the operator can display promptly target information.

Meanwhile by holding down the button operation various pieces of fundamental information for executing a print job calendar time remaining amounts of toners inks of respective colors a preview of a currently executing print job a preview of a scheduled print job a history of print jobs or the like are displayed. By holding down the button jobs detailed information such as the currently executing print job the scheduled print job and previous print jobs is displayed. By holding down the button configuration the print condition is displayed. By holding down the button maintenance information on the image forming apparatus model name device configuration software version detailed status of remaining amounts or the like of the paper feeding tray the paper ejection tray and toner ink is displayed.

The print condition setting button is a button for setting the print condition edited by the operator for the image forming apparatus .

The various information display area in the case where the button configuration for example among the screen transition button is held down will be explained. Some partitions are displayed in the various information display area . Since positions and types of these partitions can be customized by the operator the various information display area shown in figures is only an example.

In the various information display area shown in partitions of various information i.e. basic dryer temperature paper special marks preset flushing date time extended features are displayed. These pieces of information are included in the UI information that the Web server function provision unit generates from the device status information Di.

The partition of basic displays fundamental items which will be described later of the print condition of the image forming apparatus . The partition of dryer temperature displays a temperature of a roller for drying a paper. The partition of paper displays information such as a size or a thickness of the paper. The partition of special marks displays a position for adding a mark for supporting an operation of post processes to the printed paper. The partition of preset displays a list of settings stored so as to perform setting of the image forming apparatus collectively. The partition of flushing displays information upon performing flushing forced discharging of an ink jet nozzle. The partition of date time displays a time zone an acquisition destination or the like regarding time managed by the image forming apparatus . The partition of extended features displays an extension function that can be installed in the image forming apparatus .

The operator can make a selection for each of the partitions by clicking with a mouse cursor or by touching with a finger.

According to the above described configuration the operation input reception unit of the DFE or the operation input reception unit of the PC server receives an instruction for displaying a pop up screen of the selected partition. Then the UI generation unit or the UI control unit displays the pop up screen an example of a relation display element or a third display element generated by the pop up screen generation unit overlapping at least the various information display area . One of the features of the present invention is that the pop up screen does not overlap the present status display area upon displaying.

Next the pop up screen will be explained with reference to . The pop up screen generation unit of the PC server interprets the UI information which is generated by the Web server function provision unit from the device status information Di as a Web application or a Web page and generates the pop up screen .

The pop up screen displays RIP information resolution of the image forming apparatus RIP resolution and rendering speed a paper tension reprinting setting for a print incomplete page a restoration position for a paper jam or the like. Moreover the operator can edit the displayed information by using an input device a keyboard or a mouse or the finger.

Therefore the operator can edit various pieces of information included in any of the partitions of the various information display area by using the pop up screen . However since the pop up screen does not overlap the present status display area a situation that it becomes difficult for the operator to perceive the present status of the image forming apparatus is prevented. Meanwhile the pop up screen may not have a function of editing i.e. the pop up screen may be a screen for only displaying information.

Next a procedure of displaying the pop up screen will be explained with reference to . is a flowchart illustrating an example of the procedure of the UI control unit for displaying the pop up screen . are diagrams for schematically explaining an example of a layout of the pop up screen . Meanwhile for convenience of explanation in the screen transition menu display area and the various information display area are not distinguished from each other.

First the operator selects a partition step S . The pop up screen generation unit acquires ideal setting values for a height and a width of the pop up screen to be displayed. The ideal setting values with which all pieces of information included in the partition can be displayed in just proportions have been determined for each of the partitions in advance. shows ideal setting values for the pop up screen . In the ideal setting values for the pop up screen are indicated by a height Hp and a width Wp.

Next the pop up screen generation unit calculates the values of the height and the width of the greatest display area that the pop up screen can use in the following referred to as displayable area step S . The displayable area is a part of the UI without the present status display area . As shown in sizes of the UI are expressed by a height Hu and a width Wu and a height of the present status display area is denoted by Hs. Then the height and the width of the displayable area are obtained by the following formulas Height of displayable area 97 and Width of displayable area 97

Next the pop up screen generation unit makes the height and the width of the pop up screen less than those of the displayable area step S . That is the following processes are performed 

in a case where Hp is greater than the difference between Hu and Hs Hp Hu Hs the pop up screen generation unit sets the height of the pop up screen to the difference between Hu and Hs Hu Hs 

in a case where Wp is greater than Wu Wp Wu the pop up screen generation unit sets the width of the pop up screen to Wu.

The pop up screen generation unit generates the pop up screen with the height and the width which are set in Step S step S . FIG. C shows an example of the height and the width of the generated pop up screen . In the example shown in since Hp is greater than the difference between Hu and Hs Hp Hu Hs the height of the pop up screen shown in is set to Hu Hs. Moreover since the height is less than the ideal setting value a scroll bar is arranged. Meanwhile since the Wp is less than or equal to Wu Wp

Next the UI generation unit or the UI control unit displays the pop up screen step S . The display position is a center of the displayable area . Therefore the UI generation unit or the UI control unit determines coordinates of an upper left corner of the pop up screen so that the pop up screen is displayed at the center of the displayable area .

As described above soon after the pop up screen is displayed the pop up screen is displayed away from the present status display area . Moreover since the pop up screen is displayed at the center of the displayable area it is easy for the operator to edit the pop up screen .

Next processes by the UI generation unit or the UI control unit in a case where the operator moves the pop up screen will be explained with reference to . is a flowchart illustrating an example of a procedure of the UI generation unit or the UI control unit for displaying the moved pop up screen . are diagrams for schematically explaining an example of displaying of the moved pop up screen .

The process illustrated in starts by the operator dragging the pop up screen to an arbitrary position in the UI . That is it is a state where the operator holds the pop up screen by a mouse cursor or the finger and moves it to an arbitrary position and the mouse cursor or the finger is in contact with the pop up screen . As shown in while the operator holds the pop up screen the pop up screen is allowed to be moved to any position in the UI including the present status display area . But as shown in dotted lines in the present status display area does not hide behind the pop up screen . However while the operator moves the pop up screen the present status display area may hide behind the pop up screen .

First the UI generation unit of the UI control unit determines whether a mouse up event occurs step S . That is it is determined whether the operation input reception unit or detects a mouse up event. The mouse up means releasing by the operator the pop up screen which has been held. By the mouse up a final display position of the pop up screen is selected and input.

In a case where the mouse up event occurs the UI generation unit or the UI control unit determines whether the pop up screen enters the displayable area step S . In this determination coordinates of respective corners P to P of the pop up screen are compared with coordinates of corners T to T of the displayable area . For example in a case where the Y coordinate of P or P is less than the Y coordinate of T or T it is determined that the pop up screen does not enter the displayable area . In a case where the X coordinate of P or P is greater than the X coordinate of T or T it is determined that the pop up screen does not enter the displayable area . In a case where the Y coordinate of P or P is greater than the Y coordinate of T or T it is determined that the pop up screen does not enter the displayable area . In a case where the X coordinate of P or P is less than zero the X coordinate of T or T it is determined that the pop up screen does not enter the displayable area .

In the case where the pop up screen does not enter the displayable area the processes in and after step S are executed.

The UI generation unit or the UI control unit sets the X coordinate of the upper left corner P of the pop up screen to a greater one of i and ii as follows step S 

The process will be explained with reference to . In the pop up screen is moved beyond the left end of the displayable area . In this case the X coordinate of the left end of the displayable area is greater than the X coordinate of the upper left corner P of the pop up screen upon performing the mouse up. Therefore in the state of the X coordinate of the pop up screen is set to the X coordinate of the left end the corner T or T of the displayable area . That is the position of the pop up screen is modified to the position inside the displayable area which is the nearest to the position where the mouse up is performed. According to the above described processes the position of the pop up screen can be modified to a position where visual axis movement of the operator is small.

On the other hand a case where the pop up screen does not go over the left end of the displayable area as shown in will be explained. In this case the X coordinate of the upper left corner P of the pop up screen upon performing the mouse up is greater than the X coordinate of the left end of the displayable area . Therefore the modified X coordinate of the upper left corner P of the pop up screen is the same as the X coordinate of the upper left corner P of the pop up screen upon performing the mouse up.

Meanwhile the position of the pop up screen may be the center of the displayable area as shown in not the position inside the displayable area which is the nearest to the position where the mouse up is performed. In this case the operator can modify the position of the pop up screen to the center by moving the pop up screen to the outside of the displayable area .

Next the UI generation unit or the UI control unit sets the Y coordinate of the upper left corner P of the pop up screen to a greater one of iii and iv as follows step S 

In this example the pop up screen is assumed to be moved beyond the upper end of the displayable area as shown in . In this case the Y coordinate of the upper end of the displayable area is greater than the Y coordinate of the upper left corner P of the pop up screen upon performing the mouse up. Therefore in this case the Y coordinate of the upper left corner P of the pop up screen is set to the Y coordinate of the upper end the corner T or T of the displayable area .

On the other hand in a case where the pop up screen does not go over the upper end of the displayable area as shown in the Y coordinate of the upper left corner P of the pop up screen upon performing the mouse up is greater than the Y coordinate of the upper end of the displayable area In this example both Y coordinates are equal . Therefore the modified Y coordinate of the upper left corner P of the pop up screen is the same as the Y coordinate of the upper left corner P of the pop up screen upon performing the mouse up.

Next the UI generation unit or the UI control unit sets the X coordinate of the upper left corner P of the pop up screen to a smaller one of v and vi as follows step S 

 vi a coordinate obtained by subtracting the width of the pop up screen from the X coordinate of the right end of the displayable area .

The process will be explained with reference to . In the pop up screen is moved beyond the right end of the displayable area . In this case in order for the pop up screen to enter the displayable area the X coordinate of the upper left corner P is required to be on the left side of the displayable area by the width of the pop up screen . In the example of the coordinate obtained by subtracting the width of the pop up screen from the X coordinate of the right end of the displayable area is smaller than the X coordinate of the upper left corner P of the pop up screen upon performing the mouse up. Therefore the UI generation unit or the UI control unit sets the X coordinate of the upper left corner P of the pop up screen to the coordinate obtained by subtracting the width of the pop up screen from the X coordinate of the right end of the displayable area .

Meanwhile in a case where the pop up screen does not go over the right end of the displayable area the process is as follows. The X coordinate of the upper left corner P of the pop up screen upon performing the mouse up is smaller than the coordinate obtained by subtracting the width of the pop up screen from the X coordinate of the right end of the displayable area . Therefore the X coordinate of the upper left corner P of the pop up screen upon performing the mouse up is employed.

Meanwhile in relation to Step S a smaller one of the X coordinates of the upper left corner P set in Step S and in Step S is employed.

The UI generation unit or the UI control unit sets the Y coordinate of the upper left corner P of the pop up screen to a smaller one of vii and viii as follows step S 

 viii a coordinate obtained by subtracting the height of the pop up screen from the Y coordinate of the lower end of the displayable area .

The process will be explained with reference to . In the pop up screen is moved beyond the lower end of the displayable area . In this case in order for the pop up screen to enter the displayable area the Y coordinate of the upper left corner P is required to be on the upper side of the displayable area by the height of the pop up screen . In the example of the coordinate obtained by subtracting the height of the pop up screen from the Y coordinate of the lower end of the displayable area is smaller than the Y coordinate of the upper left corner P of the pop up screen upon performing the mouse up. Therefore the UI generation unit or the UI control unit sets the Y coordinate of the upper left corner P of the pop up screen to the coordinate obtained by subtracting the height of the pop up screen from the Y coordinate of the lower end of the displayable area .

Meanwhile in a case where the pop up screen does not go over the lower end of the displayable area the process is as follows. The Y coordinate of the upper left corner P of the pop up screen upon performing the mouse up is smaller than the coordinate obtained by subtracting the height of the pop up screen from the Y coordinate of the lower end of the displayable area . Therefore the Y coordinate of the upper left corner P of the pop up screen upon performing the mouse up is employed.

Meanwhile in relation to Step S a smaller one of the Y coordinates of the upper left corner P set in Step S and in Step S is employed.

The UI generation unit of the UI control unit displays a lock up screen to the X coordinate and the Y coordinate of the upper left corner P of the pop up screen which are determined as above step S .

In the pop up screen upon performing the mouse up goes over the left end of the displayable area . In this case by the process in Step S in the pop up screen is displayed so that a left end of the pop up screen contacts the left end of the displayable area . The Y coordinate remains the coordinate upon performing the mouse up according to the processes in Steps S and S in .

In the pop up screen upon performing the mouse up goes over the upper end of the displayable area . In this case by the process in Step S in the pop up screen is displayed so that an upper end of the pop up screen contacts the upper end of the displayable area . The X coordinate remains the coordinate upon performing the mouse up according to the processes in Steps S and S in .

In the pop up screen upon performing the mouse up goes over the right end of the displayable area . In this case by the process in Step S in the pop up screen is displayed so that a right end of the pop up screen contacts the right end of the displayable area . The Y coordinate remains the coordinate upon performing the mouse up according to the processes in Steps S and S in .

In the pop up screen upon performing the mouse up goes over the lower end of the displayable area . In this case by the process in Step S in the pop up screen is displayed so that a lower end of the pop up screen contacts the lower end of the displayable area . The X coordinate remains the coordinate upon performing the mouse up according to the processes in Steps S and S in .

In the pop up screen upon performing the mouse up goes over the upper end and the left end of the displayable area . In this case by the processes in Steps S and S in the pop up screen is displayed so that the upper end of the pop up screen contacts the upper end of the displayable area and that the left end of the pop up screen contacts the left end of the displayable area .

In the pop up screen upon performing the mouse up goes over the upper end and the right end of the displayable area . In this case by the processes in Steps S and S in the pop up screen is displayed so that the upper end of the pop up screen contacts the upper end of the displayable area and that the right end of the pop up screen contacts the right end of the displayable area .

In the pop up screen upon performing the mouse up goes over the lower end and the left end of the displayable area . In this case by the processes in Steps S and S in the pop up screen is displayed so that the lower end of the pop up screen contacts the lower end of the displayable area and that the left end of the pop up screen contacts the left end of the displayable area .

In the pop up screen upon performing the mouse up goes over the lower end and the right end of the displayable area . In this case by the processes in Steps S and S in the pop up screen is displayed so that the lower end of the pop up screen contacts the lower end of the displayable area and that the right end of the pop up screen contacts the right end of the displayable area .

As shown in even if the operator moves the pop up screen to the outside of the displayable area the pop up screen is displayed only in the displayable area . The pop up screen neither overlaps the screen transition menu display area nor goes over an outer edge of the various information display area . Therefore the pop up screen does not hide the present status display area and the operator can constantly perceive the present status of the image forming apparatus

Next the present status display area which is displayed enlarged will be explained with reference to . are diagrams for schematically explaining an example of a transition of the present status display area . illustrates the present status display area in a normal state.

In the present status display area in the normal state in a case where an error occurs in the image forming apparatus the UI generation unit of the UI control unit enlarges and displays the present status display area . illustrates an enlarged part of the present status display area during a process of the enlarged display from the normal state. As shown in the enlarge part of the present status display area is displayed so as to extend downwardly from the present status display area . illustrates an example of the present status display area in which the enlarged display is completed.

The enlarged part of the present status display area includes an icon region a message region and a paper tray region . The enlarged part is an example of an enlarged region.

The icon region displays a refined apparatus icon for the image forming apparatus and a remaining amount of toner ink . The refined apparatus icon indicates an error occurrence location in red or the like. Moreover in a case of an out of toner ink color of the toner ink which becomes less than a predetermined amount is highlighted by blinking or the like. illustrates eight paper trays to which numbers of 1 to 8 are assigned respectively with reference numerals to . Then since the paper tray is indicated in red the operator perceives at a glance the paper tray which runs out of paper.

The message region displays a specific content of the error with a message characters or symbols . In the example shown in a message paper tray reference numeral runs out of paper is displayed. Therefore the operator can perceive surely specific contents of the error that is perceived from the refined apparatus icon

The paper tray region displays paper tray information including the numbers 1 to 8 of the paper trays and types of placed papers. Moreover a paper tray that runs out of paper is highlighted in red or the like. The operator does not always remember the type of paper of the paper tray running out of paper which the operator perceives from the refined apparatus icon . By referring the paper tray region the operator can confirm the type of paper to be resupplied.

The refined apparatus icon the remaining amount of toner ink the message and the paper tray information are examples of warning information.

According to the present status display area displayed enlarged as above the operator can perceive immediately that some error occurs. For example in a case where the operator leaves the seat while the present status display area in the normal state is displayed the present status display area is displayed enlarged and the operator can perceive that an error occurs even from a long distance.

Moreover in a case where the operator leaves the seat while the present status display area is displayed enlarged when an error occurs an error occurrence location in the refined apparatus icon is highlighted and the operator can perceive that an error occurs even from a long distance.

Meanwhile the displaying of the present status display area upon the occurrence of error explained with reference to is an example. The enlarged part of the present status display area may be moved from right left or below not descending from above. Moreover in the case of occurrence of error a frame may be highlighted in red or the like or may blink to be displayed.

In a case where an error occurs while the pop up screen is displayed since the present status display area is displayed enlarged the pop up screen may not fit within the displayable area . In this case although most of the operators give priority to handling the occurrence of error there are operators who give priority to processing the pop up screen for example in a case where editing the pop up screen is completed in a short time .

Then in the present embodiment the present status display area is displayed enlarged in a mode corresponding to setting of the operator while the pop up screen is displayed. The setting is stored in the setting holding unit . The setting holding unit is an example of a setting information storage means and the setting of the operator is an example of setting information.

First the printer control unit periodically communicates with the image forming apparatus and sends acquired device status information Di to the system control unit step S . The device status information Di is assumed to include error content.

The system control unit passes the device status information Di to the Web server function provision unit step S . Meanwhile the system control unit may analyze the device status information Di to identify an error occurrence location.

The Web server function provision unit analyzes the device status information Di to identify the error occurrence location step S . Then based on the error occurrence location a refined apparatus icon a message and paper tray information are generated. That is a part of the refined apparatus icon corresponding to the error occurrence location is changed to red or the like. Moreover a message associated with the error occurrence location is acquired from a table in which error occurrence locations are associated with messages in advance. Moreover color of a paper tray in the paper tray region corresponding to the error occurrence location is changed to red or the like and the paper tray information is generated. The above described pieces of information are parts of the UI information. Meanwhile the present status generation unit of the PC server may generate the refined apparatus icon the message and the paper tray information

The Web server function provision unit passes the UI information generated in Step S to the transmission reception unit Step S .

The transmission reception unit of the DFE sends the UI information to the transmission reception unit of the PC server Step S .

The transmission reception unit of the PC server passes the UI information to the present status generation unit step S .

The present status generation unit generates an enlarged part of the present status display area Step S . That is the refined apparatus icon is arranged in an icon region in the enlarged part of the present status display area the message is arranged in a message region and the paper tray information is arranged in the paper tray region .

The present status generation unit passes the enlarged part of the present status display area to the UI generation unit Step S .

The UI generation unit displays the enlarged part of the present status display area on the UI Step S . The process in Step S will be explained with reference to .

Meanwhile although illustrates the operation procedure of the PC server the procedure of the DFE for displaying the UI may be passing the UI information to the UI control unit by the Web server function provision unit .

In a case where the pop up screen is not displayed Step S NO the UI generation unit displays the enlarged part of the present status display area Step S .

In a case where the pop up screen is displayed Step S YES the UI generation unit refers to the setting holding unit to determine whether the operator sets to give priority to the pop up screen Step S .

In a case where the operator sets to give priority to the pop up screen Step S YES the UI generation unit displays the enlarged part of the present status display area and thereafter displays the pop up screen Step S . According to the above described processes the pop up screen is displayed on the foremost side.

In a case where the operator does not set to give priority to the pop up screen Step S NO the UI generation unit displays the enlarged part of the present status display area in front of the pop up screen Step S . According to the above described processes the enlarged displayed present status display area is displayed on the foremost side.

As described above in the print system according to the present embodiment since the pop up screen does not overlap the present status display area the operator can constantly perceive present status of the image forming apparatus . Since the operator also cannot cause the pop up screen to overlap the present status display area by his her own operations there is no possibility of the present status display area being hidden by mistake. Moreover in a case where an error occurs while the pop up screen is displayed since the pop up screen or the present status display area can be displayed as priority according to setting by the user the displaying can be changed in the operator s preference.

The UI disclosed in Japanese Patent No. 4895613 has a problem that the pop up screen overlaps the basic screen.

The above described problem in an image forming apparatus for commercial printing will be explained with reference to . are diagrams for explaining an example of inconvenience by the pop up screen. First in the image forming apparatus for commercial printing it is important to display a present status of the image forming apparatus on the UI for the operator. The operator preferably always perceives whether the image forming apparatus is in a state of being executable for printing at present since for commercial printing the productivity of the image forming apparatus is directly linked to business benefits.

Accordingly in the image forming apparatus for commercial printing as shown in a partition dedicated for displaying status is arranged in a predetermined partition of the UI and information such as a list of printing jobs is displayed in a partition other than the dedicated partition . Since the partition dedicated for displaying status always displays the status of the image forming apparatus the operator can always perceive the present status of the image forming apparatus or the like.

However in a case where the operator causes the pop up screen to appear in the above described UI in order to display or input additional information related to the partition other than the dedicated partition the pop up screen may overlap the partition dedicated for displaying the status as shown in . In a case where the operator is concentrated on display contents of the pop up screen or inputting it may be difficult to find a change in the status of the image forming apparatus in the partition dedicated for displaying status. Moreover even when the operator does not operate using the pop up screen in a case where the operator leaves the image forming apparatus while displaying the pop up screen the operator cannot monitor the status of the apparatus and is difficult to find a change in the status of the image forming apparatus.

According to the present embodiment an information processing apparatus that can constantly display status of an image forming apparatus can be provided.

As described above the best mode for working of the present invention is explained with reference to the embodiments. However the present invention is not limited to these embodiments but various variations and modifications may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention.

For example in the present embodiments the DFE includes the Web server function provision unit . However the Web server function provision unit may be arranged separately from the DFE .

Moreover in a state where the enlarged part of the present status display area is already displayed displaying the pop up screen by the operator may be prevented or may not be prevented. In a case of not being prevented the extended part or the pop up screen is preferentially displayed according to the setting of the setting holding unit . Or the pop up screen may be given priority regardless of the setting of the setting holding unit .

Moreover as an example of the UI the screen transition menu display area and the various information display area are separately shown. However they may not be distinguished from each other. Moreover the UI may not include the screen transition menu display area .

Moreover in the present embodiment various pieces of information in the various information display area are displayed as pop up screens. But the information of the present status display area may be displayed as a pop up screen. In this case generally the pop up screen does not overlap the present status display area . However exceptionally in a case where the pop up screen includes all pieces of information of the present status display information or the status display part the job information display part the information display part and the device icon unit which indicate the present status the pop up screen may overlap the present status display area .

Moreover information displayed as the pop up screen may be information which is not displayed in the various information display area or may be information irrelevant to various pieces of information displayed in the various information display area .

Moreover in the present embodiment production printing is explained as an example. But it is possible to apply the present invention to a UI used by an individual user such as a UI for an image forming apparatus a scanner a copier or a facsimile machine.

