---

title: Control domain change based on network registration condition
abstract: A separate domain selection function is utilized as the first function in a communication path for a communication that is to be connected to a user device registered in a first network or a second network. If a result of the domain selection function indicates call control should be maintained by first network (e.g., user device is registered with first network or a network with which first network has a control relationship), call control of the communication remains with first network. If the result of the domain selection function indicates the user device is registered with second network, call control is suspended by the first network, which allows the communication to bypass the first network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09288657&OS=09288657&RS=09288657
owner: AT&T Mobility II LLC
number: 09288657
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150708
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 858 361 filed Aug. 17 2010 and entitled CONTROL DOMAIN CHANGE BASED ON NETWORK REGISTRATION CONDITION the entirety of which application is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The subject disclosure relates to wireline or wireless communications and more particularly to terminating processing of communications.

A user device which can be wireless or wireline might be in an access network or domain in which the Gm interface e.g. 3GPP TS 23.292 which provides direct communication to a home carrier s Internet Protocol Multimedia Subsystem IMS domain is not available or is not desirable for use. In this situation IMS related call control might not be supported. Currently in 3GPP 3Generation Partnership Project specifications e.g. TS 23.292 I and I ICS IMS Centralized Services reference points have been defined to solve this problem. However the I implementation requires significant development on the user device e.g. handset and the I implementation requires significant investment in Mobile Switching Center MSC based technology. Further neither the I solution nor the I solution is attractive considering the evolving nature of the problem. For example as a Long Term Evolution LTE network expands there will be fewer and fewer circumstances in which user devices are on access networks that do not provide direct communication to the IMS domain. The I method can also depend on a visited serving carrier s willingness to upgrade their MSCs.

The 3GPP specification e.g. TS 23.292 Sec 5.3.1 has defined the IMS SCC AS Service Centralization and Continuity Application Server to be the last network entity in the terminating iFC initial Filter Criteria chain of application servers. This design assumes that IMS control is desired for all calls. However in some cases it is desirable to use the non IMS domain to perform voice call control. For example when a user roams on a non IMS foreign network that may not support the home carrier s advance services it might be desirable to use the non IMS domain for voice call control.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more aspects in order to provide a basic understanding of such aspects. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated aspects and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all aspects nor delineate the scope of any or all aspects. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more aspects in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

One or more aspects relate to the invocation of a separate domain selection function as the first Internet Protocol Multimedia Subsystem IMS application server in the initial filter criteria iFC to enable and or disable IMS processing. The disclosed aspects provide a smart and economic solution that utilizes existing technology when IMS direct control is not available or is not desirable. Further the disclosed aspects do not require significant development on the user device or on legacy circuit switched core elements such as a Mobile Switching Center MSC . The disclosed aspects can be utilized by carriers that have mixed IMS network and legacy circuit switched networks or any carrier that supports roaming. Further the disclosed aspects can be applied to both wireline applications and wireless applications.

An aspect relates to a method for selecting a control domain. Method comprises receiving at a first network a communication for a user device wherein the user device is located in the first network or in a second network. Method can also comprise enabling call control of the communication at the first network and performing a domain selection function as a first function in a communication path for the communication. Further method can comprise selectively disabling call control at the first network based on a result of the domain selection function.

Another aspect relates to a communication apparatus comprising a receiver component that receives a communication intended for a user device. Communication apparatus also comprises a call control component that enables call control for the communication and a domain selection function component that performs domain selection for the communication. A result of the domain selection indicates whether the call control should be continued by the communication apparatus. The call control component selectively disables the call control of the communication apparatus based on the result of the domain selection.

A further aspect relates to a computer readable storage medium comprising computer executable code instructions stored therein wherein in response to execution by at least one processor the computer executable code instructions performs a group of acts. The group of acts comprise enabling call control for a communication wherein the communication is received at a home network and is to be connected to a user device located in the home network or in a visited network. The groups of acts also comprise performing a domain selection function as a first function in a communication path for the communication and selectively continuing call control for the communication as a function of a result of the domain selection function.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends one or more aspects comprise features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative features of one or more aspects. These features are indicative however of but a few of various ways in which principles of various aspects may be employed. Other advantages and novel features will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the drawings and the disclosed aspects are intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents.

Various aspects of the disclosed subject matter are now described with reference to the drawings. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing these aspects.

Referring to illustrated is an example communication system that provides subscriber intelligent telephony domain control selection according to an aspect. Communication system can include a first network that is associated with a plurality of user devices labeled as devices A B and C . It should be noted that although only three user devices are illustrated first network can include any number of user devices. The user devices can be wireline devices or wireless devices. In accordance with some aspects a user device can have multiple capabilities that allow the device to switch between wireline capabilities and wireless capabilities. According to an aspect first network can be a home network which is the network that controls identifiers e.g. a phone number an IP address and so forth associated with the user devices.

One or more of the plurality of user devices can be moved away from the coverage area of first network . For example as the owner of device A travels e.g. visits another state or another country device A can be moved from the first network to a second network which can be a remote or visited network in the different state or different county as illustrated.

Also included in communication system can be another network such as a third network from which a communication is originated e.g. a source network by a source device D . However in accordance with some aspects the communication can originate by a device in first network or a device in second network . The communication can be intended for a user device e.g. terminating device associated with first network e.g. device A device B device C even though the device is currently located in a different network e.g. second network . In accordance with some aspects the communication is intended for a user device that is currently located in first network . Regardless of the location e.g. first network second network of the terminating device e.g. device on which completion of the connection between the party that originated the communication e.g. source device and the called party e.g. terminating device so that communication can proceed the communication from device D will be initially routed to the first network for processing. When the communication is received by the first network call control of the communication is enabled by first network . Call control can also be enabled by the terminating network if the terminating network is not first network . First network also performs a domain selection function as a first function in terminating processing of the communication. The domain selection function can ascertain whether call control should be retained by the first network or whether call control should be suspended by first network . Suspension of call control by the first network can allow second network e.g. terminating network to perform call control for the communication. Further details related to the domain selection function and the decision to retain call control at first network or to suspend call control at the first network will be discussed below.

Generally circuit switching is the process of establishing a circuit or channel between nodes and terminals e.g. user devices before the communication can occur such as if the nodes and terminals were physically connected although they need not be physically connected . Packet switching is the process of segmenting a communication e.g. voice data video and so forth into smaller packets for transmission. Packet switching and circuit switching are well known to those of skill in the art and so will not be further described here.

In view of the aspects described herein methods that may be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter will be better appreciated with reference to various flow charts and or call flows. While for purposes of simplicity of explanation methods are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the number or order of blocks as some blocks may occur in different orders and or at substantially the same time with other blocks from what is depicted and described herein. Moreover not all illustrated blocks may be required to implement methods described herein. It is to be appreciated that functionality associated with blocks may be implemented by software hardware a combination thereof or any other suitable means e.g. device system process component . Additionally it should be further appreciated that methods disclosed throughout this specification are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such methods to various devices. Those skilled in the art will understand and appreciate that a method could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram. In accordance with some aspects a processor executing computer executable instructions stored on a computer readable storage medium is configured to implement the methods and or call flows disclosed herein.

Method starts at when a communication that is to be terminated e.g. a call path between an originating device and the device to which the communication is directed is completed at a user device is received at a first network. In accordance with some aspects the communication is received over a Public Land Mobile Network PLMN or over an IMS network that provides originating telecommunications services or other network. The communication can be received at a node associated with the first network such as an IMS core which can be accessed from PLMN though a Media Gateway MGW for example. The communication could have originated in the first network a second network or another network. At call control for the communication is enabled in the first network.

At a domain selection function is performed by a network entity of the first network. In accordance with some aspects the network entity is a Domain Selection Application Server DS AS for example. The domain selection function can be the first function in a communication path for terminating processing to enable and or disable terminating feature processing for the communication. In accordance with some aspects the domain selection function is based on a network registration condition of the terminating device e.g. in which network the terminating device currently registered . In accordance with some aspects the terminating feature processing is IMS terminating feature processing.

The domain selection function can include a determination whether a session associated with the communication e.g. terminating processing should be controlled by the first network. In an example the determination can be whether the communication should be IMS controlled or non IMS controlled e.g. Circuit Switched IP based . In accordance with some aspects the determination is made based on sending a query to a database and receiving service domain information and access domain information in response to the query. In accordance with some aspects the determination is made based on one or more factors. For example the determination can be made based on obtaining a location e.g. in which network the device is currently located of a user device on which the communication is terminated such as by sending a query to a database to obtain network information related to a network to which the terminating device is currently connected e.g. first network second network or other terminating network . In accordance with some aspects the determination is based on access network capability of the network to which the terminating device is connected e.g. 2G 3G LTE packet switching capable or not and so forth . In some aspects the determination is made based on the terminating device capability e.g. supports IMS or does not support IMS . According to some aspects the determination is made based on the terminating device s profile configuration. In some aspects the determination is made as a function of internal provisioned information that is maintained by at least one network entity in the first network. The internal provisioned information can be maintained in a computer readable storage medium. The internal provisioned information can include whether the terminating device is in a network that is a supported roaming partner of the first network circuit switched e.g. MSC information and so forth. In accordance with some aspects the determination is made based on various combinations of the above. In accordance with some aspects the determination can be made in other manners.

In accordance with some aspects the domain selection function can be performed to establish that there is no existing control relationship between the first network and the second network e.g. terminating network in which device is currently located . For example the establishing comprises ascertaining that first network is IMS controlled and second network is non IMS controlled. Lack of a control relationship can be established based on information contained in a database look up table or other source that provides a correlation between home network and other networks to which home network has a relationship e.g. HSS .

A result of the domain selection function is which control domain e.g. first network second network IMS non IMS is to be selected for a communication session. In accordance with some aspects the result can indicate that a control domain of the first network should be selected for call control. According to some aspects the result can indicate that the control domain of the second network should be utilized for call control.

Based in part on the result of the domain selection function call control of the communication session by first network is selectively disabled at . For example if the result of the domain selection function indicates that call control of the communication should be performed by first network call control by first network is continued e.g. is not disabled . However if the result of the domain selection function indicates that call control should be performed by second network wherein the user device on which the communication is terminated is located in second network call control is disabled in the first network. In accordance with some aspects the selectively disabling comprises bypassing IMS feature control when first accessing an IMS domain wherein the communication is non IMS controlled.

At terminating processing is continued and as indicated at call control of the communication is continued to be processed by the first network. For example an SCC AS is accessed to anchor the communication. The SCC AS can indicate to an entity in the IMS core for example to route the communication to the terminating user device through the appropriate access network and method e.g. LTE Gm ICS Gm PLMN and so on .

According to some aspects if the communication is IMS controlled SCC AS will be accessed as the last Application Server in the initial filter criteria iFC chain. The anchor function in SCC AS can be performed to prepare for future handover of the communication e.g. to another network that has a control relationship with first network . In accordance with some aspects an example high level iFC definition can be as follows 

At the call control by the first network is discontinued in order to bypass the domain e.g. IMS domain of the first network. In an example routing the communication comprises generating a Roaming Uniform Resource Identifier R URI that includes MSRN information. The R URI and MSRN information can be routed back to the first network. The first network can route the communication to the user device s vMSC visited MSC in the second network with no further IMS Application Server AS processing.

In accordance with some aspects the network entity e.g. DS AS can drop out of the communication path at substantially the same time as the communication is routed to the location at . For example session Internet Protocol messages can be transmitted to an entity in the home network that indicates an intent by DS AS to be removed from the communication path.

So that the disclosed aspects may be more fully appreciated various call systems for conventional terminating processing will now be discussed. Although these systems will be discussed with reference to an IMS controlled domain and a non IMS controlled domain the disclosed aspects are not limited to an IMS controlled domain and a non IMS controlled domain. illustrates a system for a conventional Long Term Evolution termination call to an IMS controlled domain. Included in call flow are a first user device and a second user device . First user device initiates a communication e.g. voice call data call and so forth intended for second user device . Second user device can be associated with a home network but can be located in home network or a visited network when the communication is to be terminated e.g. when the communication is connected at the second user device . First user device can be located in home network visited network or another network. The communication is routed from first user device to an IMS Core for terminating processing. In accordance with some aspects the communication is routed through a public land mobile network PLMN or other network. The IMS core utilizes initial filter criteria iFC to determine that the first application server should be a Telephony Application Server TAS . The TAS applies required terminating voice call features e.g. Call Forwarding and so forth . After applying the required terminating voice call features the TAS sends the communication back to the IMS Core .

When the call is to be routed to the second user device the IMS core utilizes iFC to invoke a Service Centralization and Continuity Application Server SCC AS as the last application server. Included in the SCC AS are a Terminating Access Domain Selection TADS a Circuit Switching Routing component CS routing and a SCC call control component SCC call control .

The TADS or another SCC AS component can query a database that can contain subscription related information such as subscriber profiles can perform authentication and authorization of the second user device and can provide information related to the location of the second user device e.g. subscriber and IP information. In accordance with some aspects the database is a Home Subscriber Server HSS which is a master user database that supports IMS network entities.

The database responds to the query request and the information in the response is combined with TADS provisioned information to allow SCC AS to determine that the second user device is connected to the LTE home network. The SCC AS provides call anchoring and sends the call back to the IMS core . The IMS core routes the communication to the second user device . For example the communication can be routed to the second user device through EPC Enhanced Packet Core or other packet networks .

First user device initiates a communication e.g. call voice call data call etc. intended for second user device . The communication is routed from first user device to an IMS Core for terminating processing. The communication can be routed through a public land mobile network PLMN or other network. The IMS core utilizes initial filter criteria iFC to determine that the first application server should be a Telephony Application Server TAS . The TAS applies terminating voice call features e.g. Call Forwarding and so forth . After applying the terminating voice call features the TAS sends the communication back to the IMS Core .

When the call is to be routed to the second user device the IMS core utilizes iFC to invoke a Service Centralization and Continuity Application Server SCC AS as the last application server. Included in the SCC AS are a Terminating Access Domain Selection TADS a Circuit Switching Routing component CS routing and a SCC call control component SCC call control .

In this situation the TADS determines that second user device is on the non IMS controlled circuit switched network. Thus SCC AS establishes a CS leg or path for the communication in order to terminate the communication at second user device . The communication is completed to the circuit switched domain such as through a PLMN MSC . Thus various networks e.g. EPC or other packet networks can be bypassed.

Although the communication can be routed to the non IMS controlled PLMN MSC due to the lack of IMS signaling control to TAS the voice mid call features e.g. 3 way calling and so forth cannot be supported from IMS. Therefore conventional systems as defined in TS 23.292 have defined I and I reference points that may be used to attempt to solve this problem. However the I implementation requires significant development on the handset e.g. user device and the I implementation requires significant investment in MSC based technology.

For example the I reference point is utilized between the second user device and the SCC AS for service control signaling over circuit switching access. The I reference point supports set up through circuit switching access for device originating and device terminating sessions supports signaling for additional IMS parameter exchange during session setup and supports IMS services control through circuit switching access. The I reference point is utilized to route service control signaling between the MSC Server enhanced for ICS and the home IMS. The I and I reference points are further described in 3GPP TS 23.292 which provides definition of device termination control flows to the user device on IMS controlled network and non IMS controlled network.

Neither of the solutions I or I is attractive given the evolving nature of the problem. For example as an LTE network expands there will be fewer circumstances in which user devices are on access networks that do not provide direct communication to the IMS domain. The I method would also impact a visited serving carrier s willingness to upgrade its MSCs.

The disclosed aspects can overcome these as well as other problems. The disclosed aspects can provide network operators with a low cost alternative to the existing standards solutions e.g. I and I through the bypass of IMS service control for calls that are delivered to the IMS when the device is on a non IMS controlled network. The disclosed aspects allow for a full set of standard mid call features to be provided to the device user by the visited network. Further the disclosed aspects can support both user devices that are roaming on non LTE or non IMS foreign networks and or user devices that are connected to older technology home networks. Further the disclosed aspects can be utilized for both wireless and or wireline applications.

A communication e.g. voice call data call video and so forth from first user device is routed though PLMN or another network to a node in the IMS core for terminating processing wherein call control is initiated. The communication is routed to a network entity such as a Domain Selection AS that includes a domain selection function DSF and a circuit switching routing function CS routing . The DSF is configured to determine a service domain to which the communication should be routed. DSF is also configured to determine an access domain to which the communication should be routed.

The Domain Selection AS is the first application server that is invoked during terminating processing. The Domain Selection AS can reside in an IMS Application Server. In accordance with some aspects the Domain Selection AS resides on a standalone IMS Application Server. According to other aspects the Domain Selection AS can be added to an existing IMS Application Server that supports other call control functions.

The DSF is configured to interface with a database to obtain the access network information and to determine if IMS processing is needed for the communication. In accordance with some aspects the database is a HSS. The interface between DSF and database can be based on a query that is sent by DSF or another component of DS AS . Based on the query request the database determines if IMS processing is needed for the communication and returns the result of the query to DSF . The DSF can also be provisioned with information to support domain selection determination. For example a table of network providers that have a special relationship e.g. a control relationship with a home network can be accessible by DSF .

According to some aspects the determination is made based on sending a query to a database and receiving service domain information and access domain information in response to the query. In accordance with some aspects the determination is made based on obtaining information related to network e.g. home network visited network where the user device is located and that network s access network capability e.g. 2G 3G LTE packet switching capability the user device s capability e.g. supports ICS does not support ICS the user device s profile and or configuration DS AS internal provisioned information e.g. supported roaming partner MSC information or combinations thereof. In accordance with some aspects the determination can be made in other manners.

If IMS processing is needed the Domain Selection AS routes the call back to the IMS Core . Domain Selection AS can optionally drop off from the communication path. In this manner Domain Selection AS does not use any further resources on the communication.

The IMS Core continues with IMS terminating processing and accesses a Telephony Application Server TAS . After TAS the call is routed back to the IMS Core which accesses a SCC AS for SCC call anchor. After call anchoring the SCC AS sends the call back to the IMS core . The IMS core continues call control and routes the call to second user device through home network which can be a packet switched network or a circuit switched network.

System comprises a first user device located in a home network of second user device a visited network or another network that sends a communication to a second user device . The communication is routed from first user device to an IMS Core . In accordance with some aspects the communication can be routed through a PLMN network or another type of network.

The IMS Core invokes a DS AS for terminating processing. The DS AS can reside in an IMS Application Server. In accordance with some aspects the DS AS can reside on a standalone IMS Application Server. According to other aspects the DS AS can be added to an existing IMS Application Server that supports other call control functions. The DS AS is configured to determine a domain that should be utilized to route the communication to second user device . DS AS comprises a DSF and a CS routing function . The DSF obtains information related to the second user device . In accordance with some aspects the DSF queries a database and determines if IMS processing is needed. In an example the database is a HSS.

In this case based on the database query request and DSF provisioned information DSF has determined that IMS processing TAS and SCC AS is not needed e.g. call control should not be handled by the IMS controlled domain . DS AS invokes CS routing function to determine how to route to second user device . In accordance with some aspects CS routing function is configured to perform a SRI query to determine the visiting MSC routing number MSRN to which to route the communication. The DS AS routes the communication to the IMS Core with the new CS number MSRN . The IMS Core suspends call control and routes the communication to the second network and the second user device which allows the communication to bypass the rest of IMS control in first home network and its access network .

At about the same time as the communication is received a call control component begins call control of the communication. If the terminating node is registered in a network not served by communication node that network can also enable call control of the communication. Thus there might be circumstances when conflicting call control exists.

Also included in communication node is a domain selection function component that performs domain selection for the communication. The domain selection is the first function in a communication path for the received communication. In accordance with some aspects the domain selection function component is a domain selection application server. According to some aspects a selected control domain can be IMS controlled or non IMS controlled.

In accordance with some aspects domain selection function component can include a transmit module that is configured to send a query to a database and receives at a receive module service domain information and access domain information in response to the query. According to some aspects domain selection function component determines network information of the visited network if the terminating device is located in the visited network and access network capability of the visited network or combinations thereof. In an aspect domain selection function component ascertains at least one capability of a user device on which the communication is terminated. In accordance with another aspect domain selection function component utilizes its internal provisioned information to select the control domain. According to some aspects domain selection function component determines network information of the visited network an access network capability of the visited network a capability of a user device on which the communication is terminated internal provisioned information or combinations thereof.

According to some aspects communication node includes an association component that is configured to establish whether the communication node e.g. home network and the network on which the terminating device is currently located or registered e.g. visited network have a control relationship if the terminating device is currently registered with communication node association component does not need to determine control relationship information . For example association component can ascertain whether home network and visited network can pass any type of sophisticated call control information back and forth. If the networks can pass the information the networks have a control relationship. If the information cannot be passed between the networks the networks do not have a control relationship. According to some aspects association component accesses a database to establish whether a control relationship exists. In accordance with some aspects association component ascertains that the home network is IMS controlled and the visited network is non IMS controlled.

Based in part on a result of the domain selection performed by domain selection function component the call control component is configured to selectively disable call control. For example the domain selection function component can indicate that the home network e.g. communication node is to process the communication thus call control is continued by the home network. However if the result of the domain selection function is that the communication should be handled by another domain e.g. visited network call control component suspends the call control of the communication which allows the communication to bypass communication node . In this case the visited network performs the call control.

If call control is to be continued by communication node domain selection function component provides a result of the domain selection function to call control component . Domain selection function component can also send session Internet Protocol messages to communication node wherein the messages indicate that domain selection function component should be removed from the communication path.

Communication node also includes one or more processor s configured to provide or that provide at least part of the described functionality of the various components within the communication nodes . Processor s can execute computer executable code instructions stored in memory to provide the described functionality of communication node . Such computer executable code instructions can include program modules software application s or firmware application s that implement for example various aspects described herein. It should be appreciated that each of the one or more processor s can be a centralized element or a distributed element. In distributed scenarios the one or more processor s can be part of the various components that comprise communication node . Memory stores data such as data structures data objects metadata numerical variables and parameters logical variables or the like. In addition processor s memory and the various components within communication node can exchange data and signaling via bus . In an aspect bus can be embodied in one or more of a system bus an address bus a message bus a memory bus a power bus in accordance with various hardware firmware or software implementations.

In order to provide additional context for various aspects of the subject specification and the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable computing environment in which the various aspects of the specification can be implemented. While the specification has been described above in the general context of computer executable instructions that may run on one or more computers or user devices those skilled in the art will recognize that the specification also can be implemented in combination with other program modules and or as a combination of hardware and software.

Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive methods can be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor computer systems minicomputers mainframe computers as well as personal computers hand held computing devices microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics and the like each of which can be operatively coupled to one or more associated devices.

The illustrated aspects of the specification may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where certain tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

Computing devices typically include a variety of media which can include computer readable storage media and or communications media which two terms are used herein differently from one another as follows. Computer readable storage media can be any available storage media that can be accessed by the computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable storage media can be implemented in connection with any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions program modules structured data or unstructured data. Computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or other tangible and or non transitory media which can be used to store desired information. Computer readable storage media can be accessed by one or more local or remote computing devices e.g. via access requests queries or other data retrieval protocols for a variety of operations with respect to the information stored by the medium.

Communications media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other structured or unstructured data in a data signal such as a modulated data signal e.g. a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery or transport media. The term modulated data signal or signals refers to a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in one or more signals. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

With reference again to the example environment for implementing various aspects of the specification includes a computer the computer including a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The system bus couples system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit can be any of various commercially available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multi processor architectures may also be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure that may further interconnect to a memory bus with or without a memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of commercially available bus architectures. The system memory includes read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS is stored in a non volatile memory such as ROM EPROM EEPROM which BIOS contains the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up. The RAM can also include a high speed RAM such as static RAM for caching data.

The computer further includes an internal hard disk drive HDD e.g. EIDE SATA which internal hard disk drive may also be configured for external use in a suitable chassis not shown or an external HDD can be present in addition to internal HDD a magnetic floppy disk drive FDD e.g. to read from or write to a removable diskette and an optical disk drive e.g. reading a CD ROM disk or to read from or write to other high capacity optical media such as the DVD . The hard disk drive magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive can be connected to the system bus by a hard disk drive interface a magnetic disk drive interface and an optical drive interface respectively. The interface for external drive implementations includes at least one or both of Universal Serial Bus USB and IEEE interface technologies. Other external drive connection technologies are within contemplation of the subject specification.

The drives and their associated computer readable media provide nonvolatile storage of data data structures computer executable instructions and so forth. For the computer the drives and media accommodate the storage of any data in a suitable digital format. Although the description of computer readable media above refers to a HDD a removable magnetic diskette and a removable optical media such as a CD or DVD it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other types of media which are readable by a computer such as zip drives magnetic cassettes flash memory cards cartridges and the like may also be used in the example operating environment and further that any such media may contain computer executable instructions for performing the methods of the specification.

A number of program modules can be stored in the drives and RAM including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data . All or portions of the operating system applications modules and or data can also be cached in the RAM . It is appreciated that the specification can be implemented with various commercially available operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user can enter commands and information into the computer through one or more wired wireless input devices e.g. a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse . Other input devices not shown may include a microphone an IR remote control a joystick a game pad a stylus pen touch screen or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through an input device interface that is coupled to the system bus but can be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port an IEEE serial port a game port a USB port an IR interface etc.

A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video adapter . In addition to the monitor a computer typically includes other peripheral output devices not shown such as speakers printers etc.

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections via wired and or wireless communications to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer s . In accordance with some aspects a SS7 telecommunication signaling network can be utilized to interface with remote computer s . The remote computer s can be a workstation a server computer a router a personal computer portable computer microprocessor based entertainment appliance a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to the computer although for purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated. The logical connections depicted include wired wireless connectivity to a local area network LAN and or larger networks e.g. a wide area network WAN . Such LAN and WAN networking environments are commonplace in offices and companies and facilitate enterprise wide computer networks such as intranets all of which may connect to a global communications network e.g. the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the local network through a wired and or wireless communication network interface or adapter . The adapter may facilitate wired or wireless communication to the LAN which may also include a wireless access point disposed thereon for communicating with the wireless adapter .

When used in a WAN networking environment the computer can include a modem or is connected to a communications server on the WAN or has other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as by way of the Internet. The modem which can be internal or external and a wired or wireless device is connected to the system bus via the serial port interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof can be stored in the remote memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are example and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers can be used.

The computer is operable to communicate with any wireless devices or entities operatively disposed in wireless communication e.g. a printer scanner desktop and or portable computer portable data assistant communications satellite any piece of equipment or location associated with a wirelessly detectable tag e.g. a kiosk news stand restroom and telephone. This includes at least Wi Fi and Bluetooth wireless technologies. Thus the communication can be a predefined structure as with a conventional network or simply an ad hoc communication between at least two devices.

Wi Fi or Wireless Fidelity allows connection to the Internet without wires. Wi Fi is a wireless technology similar to that used in a cell phone that enables such devices e.g. computers to send and receive data indoors and out anywhere within the range of a base station. Wi Fi networks use radio technologies called IEEE 802.11 a b g etc. to provide secure reliable fast wireless connectivity. A Wi Fi network can be used to connect computers to each other to the Internet and to wired networks which use IEEE 802.3 or Ethernet . Wi Fi networks operate in the unlicensed 2.4 and 5 GHz radio bands at an 8 Mbps 802.11a or 54 Mbps 802.11b data rate for example or with products that contain both bands dual band so the networks can provide real world performance similar to the basic 10BaseT wired Ethernet networks used in many offices.

The system includes a communication framework that can be employed to facilitate communications between the client s and the server s . The client s are operatively connected to one or more client data store s that can be employed to store information local to the client s . Similarly the server s are operatively connected to one or more server data store s that can be employed to store information local to the servers .

It is to be noted that aspects features or advantages of the subject innovation described in the subject specification can be exploited in substantially any communication technology. For example 4G technologies Wi Fi WiMAX Enhanced GPRS 3GPP LTE 3GPP2 UMB 3GPP UMTS HSPA HSDPA HSUPA GERAN UTRAN LTE Advanced. Additionally substantially all aspects disclosed herein can be exploited in legacy telecommunication technologies e.g. GSM. In addition mobile as well non mobile networks e.g. Internet data service network such as IPTV can exploit aspect or features described herein.

As it employed in the subject specification the term processor can refer to substantially any computing processing unit or device comprising but not limited to comprising single core processors single processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors multi core processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors with hardware multithread technology parallel platforms and parallel platforms with distributed shared memory. Additionally a processor can refer to an integrated circuit an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a digital signal processor DSP a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic controller PLC a complex programmable logic device CPLD a discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. Processors can exploit nano scale architectures such as but not limited to molecular and quantum dot based transistors switches and gates in order to optimize space usage or enhance performance of user equipment. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing processing units.

In the subject specification and annexed drawings terms such as store data store data storage database and substantially any other information storage component relevant to operation and functionality of a component refer to memory components or entities embodied in a memory or components comprising the memory. It will be appreciated that the memory components described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory.

By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and dire Rambus RAM DRRAM . Additionally the disclosed memory components of systems or methods herein are intended to comprise without being limited to comprising these and any other suitable types of memory.

Various aspects or features described herein can be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques. In addition various aspects disclosed in the subject specification can also be implemented through program modules stored in a memory and executed by a processor or other combination of hardware and software or hardware and firmware. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical discs e.g. compact disc CD digital versatile disc DVD blu ray disc BD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . .

What has been described above includes examples of systems and methods that provide advantages of the subject innovation. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methods for purposes of describing the subject innovation but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the claimed subject matter are possible. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has possesses and the like are used in the detailed description claims appendices and drawings such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

As used in this application the terms component system and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity or an entity related to an operational apparatus with one or more specific functionalities wherein the entity can be either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. As an example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server or network controller and the server or network controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Also these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems via the signal . As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry which is operated by a software or firmware application executed by a processor wherein the processor can be internal or external to the apparatus and executes at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts the electronic components can include a processor therein to execute software or firmware that confers at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. As further yet another example interface s can include input output I O components as well as associated processor application or Application Programming Interface API components.

In addition the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. Moreover articles a and an as used in the subject specification and annexed drawings should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

