---

title: Disaster recovery with a central conferencing routing server
abstract: Aspects of the present disclosure involve systems, methods, computer program products, and the like, for collaboration conferencing with multiple participants over a communications network, and more specifically for a conferencing routing service for managing and routing collaboration participants. In one embodiment, the conferencing routing server is configured to respond to a failure in a conference bridge to allow for repair to the network and/or account for split conferences that may occur due to the bridge failure. In one embodiment, the CCRS may account for moving a conference bridge into an offline state by removing the conference bridge from consideration for hosting a collaboration conference.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09386053&OS=09386053&RS=09386053
owner: Level 3 Communications, LLC
number: 09386053
owner_city: Broomfield
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151102
---
This application is a continuation of and claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Non Provisional application Ser. No. 13 708 689 titled DISASTER RECOVERY WITH A CENTRAL CONFERENCING ROUTING SERVER filed on Dec. 7 2012 and is hereby incorporated by reference herein. Application Ser. No. 13 708 689 claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to provisional patent application No. 61 584 115 titled CENTRAL CONFERENCING ROUTING SERVICE and provisional patent application No. 61 584 122 titled CENTRAL CONFERENCING ROUTING SERVICE both filed on Jan. 6 2012 and both of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein. Application Ser. No. 13 708 689 claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 578 794 entitled SIP BASED VOIP COLLABORATION U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 578 798 entitled SIP BASED VOIP COLLABORATION U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 578 803 entitled SIP BASED VOIP COLLABORATION U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 578 807 entitled SIP BASED VOIP COLLABORATION and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 578 810 entitled SIP BASED VOIP COLLABORATION all filed on Dec. 21 2011 and each of which is incorporated by reference in their entirety herein. In addition this application is related to co owned U.S. Non Provisional patent application Ser. No. 13 708 659 titled CENTRAL CONFERENCING ROUTING SERVER co owned U.S. Non Provisional patent application Ser. No. 13 708 678 titled LOAD BALANCING IN A CENTRAL CONFERENCING ROUTING SERVER and co owned U.S. Non Provisional patent application Ser. No. 13 708 659 titled METHOD FOR ROUTING IN A CENTRAL CONFERENCING ROUTING SERVER each of which is hereby incorporated by reference herein.

Aspects of the present disclosure generally relate to systems and methods that provide for collaboration conferencing with multiple participants using devices connected to a telecommunication network including a VoIP network and more specifically for a conferencing routing service for managing and routing collaboration participants.

Telecommunication networks provide for the transmission of information across some distance through terrestrial wireless or satellite communication networks. Such communications may involve voice data or multimedia information among others. In addition telecommunication networks often offer features and or services to the customers of the network that provide flexible and varied ways in which the communications are transmitted over the network. For example some telecommunication networks provide a conferencing feature that allows several users of the network to communicate at once rather than a simple person to person communication. The number of participants to a conference communication may range from several users to several thousand users communicating on the same telephonic video and or data call.

Typically conferencing communications require participants to the conference to place a telephonic call to a dedicated conferencing number. Some networks also require the participants enter a conference call code into the keypad of a telephonic device. The conferencing number and code are then utilized by the telecommunications network to connect that participant to a conference bridge device. In general a conference bridge is a telecommunications device that hosts the participants of a conferencing communication such that the participants can participate in a conference call. Thus the network typically receives the dialed number and conference code from each participant and connects the participant to the conference bridge. Once connected to the conference bridge the participant may take part in the conference. To ensure that each of the participants of the conference may take part in the communication each participant must connect to the same conference bridge.

It is with these and other issues in mind among others that various aspects of the present disclosure were conceived and developed.

One implementation of the present disclosure may take the form of a method for managing collaboration conferences in a network. The method may include the operations of receiving a notice of a change of state of a first conference bridge of a plurality of conference bridges associated with a telecommunications network the notice of a change of the first conference bridge comprising an identification of the first conference bridge and accessing a database configured to store at least one routing rule for at least one customer to the telecommunications network the at least one routing rule comprising a priority table comprising a list of the plurality of conference bridges and a priority level associated with each of the plurality of conference bridges. In addition the method may include removing the first conference bridge from the priority table of the at least one routing rule and selecting a second conference bridge as a host conference bridge for a new collaboration conference on the telecommunications network.

Another implementation of the present disclosure may take the form of a system for managing collaboration conferences in a network. The system includes a network interface unit configured to receive a communication from a communications network an application server in communication with the network interface unit and a database connected to the application server configured to store at least one priority table comprising a list of a plurality of conference bridges associated with a telecommunications network and a priority level associated with each of the plurality of conference bridges and instructions. In addition when the instructions are executed by the application server the system performs the operations of receiving a notice at the network interface unit of a change of state of a first conference bridge of a plurality of conference bridges associated with a telecommunications network the notice of a change of the first conference bridge comprising an identification of the first conference bridge. In addition the system may also perform the operations of retrieving the priority table from the database removing the first conference bridge from the priority table selecting a second conference bridge as a host conference bridge in response to receiving a request for a new collaboration conference on the network interface unit and transmitting one or more routing messages to the telecommunications network wherein the one or more routing messages include an indication of the second conference bridge.

Aspects of the present disclosure involve systems methods computer program products and the like for collaboration conferencing with multiple participants over a communications network and more specifically for a conferencing routing server for managing and routing collaboration participants. In one example a central conferencing routing server CCRS may be implemented in the communications network to receive a request to join a collaboration conference from one or more of the participants and route the participants to a shared communication bridge that conducts the conference. Additionally the CCRS may receive and maintain information about the communications network to intelligently route the collaboration conference to an appropriate bridge based on any number of criteria. For example the CCRS may communicate with one or more conference bridges associated with the communications network and determine which conference bridge will host a collaboration conference request from a collaboration participant.

The CCRS may also determine which conference bridge will host a collaboration conference request based on other information. For example the CCRS may maintain a database of information or preferences associated with the conference requester and attempt to select a conference bridge based on the requester s information. Such information may include but is not limited to a regional preference the size of the collaboration request and certain collaboration features of the conference collaboration. In another example the CCRS may receive performance information from a plurality of conference bridges that are able to conduct the collaboration conference and select a conference bridge in response to the performance information. For example a particular bridge may provide certain additional features such as high definition audio and the selection of the conference bridge may be based on the desire for the additional feature or features. In general the CCRS may provide configurability in routing a collaboration conference to a conference bridge based on any number of criteria and information about the requester and the communications network on which the conference occurs.

Also the CCRS may be configured to respond to a failure in one of the conference bridges to allow for repair to the network and or account for split conferences that may occur due to the bridge failure. In one embodiment the CCRS may account for moving a conference bridge into an offline state by removing the conference bridge from consideration for hosting a collaboration conference. For example the conference bridge may be moved to an offline state such that maintenance can be performed on the conference bridge. Further the CCRS may perform disaster recovery on the system when a conference bridge fails or begins operating erratically by removing the conference bridge from hosting collaboration conferences and moving existing collaboration conferences to other conference bridges. Thus through the CCRS system the failure or maintenance of a conference bridge may result in little disruption to the collaboration conferences of the network.

The VoIP network includes numerous components such as but not limited to gateways routers and registrars which enable communication across the VoIP network but are not shown or described in detail here because those skilled in the art will readily understand these components. More relevant to this description is the interaction and communication between the VoIP network and other entities such as the one or more customer home or business local area networks LANs where a participant in a conference will connect with the system for the conference.

Customer network can include communication devices such as but not limited to a personal computer or a telephone connected to a router firewall . Although shown in as telephonic devices the communication devices may include any type of communication device that receives a multimedia signal such as an audio video or web based signal and presents that signal for use by a user of the communication device. The communication and networking components of the customer network enable a user at the customer network to communicate via the VoIP network to other communication devices such as another customer network and or an analog telephone . Components of the customer network are typically home or business based but they can be relocated and may be designed for easy portability. For example the communication device may be wireless e.g. cellular telephone or portable laptop computer.

The customer network typically connects to the VoIP network via a border network such as one provided by an Internet Service Provider ISP . The border network is typically provided and maintained by a business or organization such as a local telephone company or cable company. The border network may provide network communication related services to their customers. In contrast the communication device accesses and is accessed by the VoIP network via a public switched telephone network PSTN operated by a local exchange carrier LEC . Communication via any of the networks can be wired wireless or any combination thereof. Additionally the border network and PSTN may communicate in some embodiments with the VoIP Network through a media gateway device . For ease of instruction only three communication devices are shown communicating with the VoIP network however numerous such devices and other devices may be connected with the network which is equipped to handle enormous numbers of simultaneous calls and other communications.

In general a request for a collaboration conference over the VoIP network is initiated by a requester through one of the communication devices associated with the network. As used herein the term collaboration conference includes any type of collaboration between three or more users of a communication network. For example the collaboration conference may include audio collaboration video collaboration web collaboration a combination of any of the above and the like. For ease of instruction the collaboration conferences discussed herein are generally made in reference to an audio conference although any type of collaboration conference over a telecommunications network is envisioned with respect to the present disclosure. Similarly although illustrates the communication devices as telephonic devices the communication devices may be any type of communication device including personal computers cellular phones and the like.

Upon receipt of the request for a collaboration conference the network routes the request to the CCRS integrated within the network . However it should be appreciated that the CCRS may be a part of the network may be separate from the network or may have portions deployed in the network and out of the network. In addition the CCRS may be resident on one or more components of the VoIP network including several instances of the CCRS integrated throughout the network . Further although only a single instance of a CCRS is illustrated in any number of CCRS instances may be present in the network to form a CCRS system. As discussed in more detail below the network may account for the availability of multiple CCRS devices or instances through a process of establishing a master CCRS control engine.

To transmit the request to the network the requester uses the communication device to dial a conference specific telephone number. In some instances the network upon receipt of the dialed communication executes an application that queries the requester to enter an access code number that the requester enters into the communication device . With this information the network determines that the requester intends to initiate or join a collaboration conference and routes the request to a conference bridge as explained in greater detail below.

In any event the CCRS receives the request to begin a collaboration conference or join an existing conference. In response and described in more detail below the CCRS may route the one or more requests to one of several conference bridges associated with the VoIP network for hosting of the collaboration conference. Although only two conference bridges are shown in it should be appreciated that any number of conference bridges may be associated with the network for hosting collaboration conferences.

In general the conference bridges provide a hosting site for a collaboration conference between a plurality of users of the network . Thus conference bridge A may host a collaboration conference while conference bridge B may host an additional collaboration conference. In particular conference bridge A is connected to the communications network through a media gateway similar to the media gateway disclosed above. This configuration may be utilized when the conference bridge is a time division multiplex TDM bridge. Conference bridge B is internal to the communications network through which the communications of the conference are transmitted. This configuration is utilized for Internet Protocol IP based bridges.

Additionally the CCRS may be configured for use with any number of network and conference bridge platforms. For example the telecommunications network of may be configured as a TDM network or an IP based network which includes video audio and web based components to which the CCRS may be configured to interface. Another particular network and or conference bridge platform supported by the network configuration of is a Session Initiation Protocol SIP based network. For example conference bridge B may be a SIP based conference bridge. Such IP based components may provide additional conferencing features to the network by providing information concerning the collaboration conference in a header of a message transmitted through the network such as an identification of the collaboration conference video integration Uniform Resource Identifier URI based routing and conference integration conference access credentials for authentication and permission to enter the requested conference. SIP based conference bridges may also provide high definition audio additional security features and transitions between collaboration conferences without having to redial into the system. In general because components operating utilizing SIP can exchange information within a header many additional features for a collaboration conference can be offered to participants on a SIP based conference bridge. In addition SIP based CCRS devices may utilize many of the advantages of information exchange within the header when communicating with TDM based network devices.

To connect to a collaboration conference each participant to the conference may be routed to the same conference bridge for the duration of the conference. The conference bridge in turn provides communication ports for each participant such that each participant can hear or otherwise participate in the collaboration conference. Any conference bridge known in the art or hereafter developed may be integrated into the system of for hosting a collaboration conference. In addition the term conference bridge or bridge includes any component of a communication network that provides an access point to one or more users of the network for a collaboration conference. For example conference bridge may also include such devices as a media server device a gateway server device or the like as configured within the network .

Returning to the network may be utilized by one or more participants to a collaboration or conferencing communication hosted on a conference bridge . In particular is a flowchart of a method for the CCRS of the network to receive a request from one or more participants to join a collaboration session and route the participants to the proper conference bridge through which the collaboration is hosted. In general the operations described in relation to the flowchart of are performed by one or more components of the CCRS as part of the telecommunications network .

Beginning with operation a participant to a conference communication may dial into the conference using a telephonic device and or . In particular the participant may dial a conference number and or enter a conference code to access the collaboration conference. The media gateway or other switching device routes the request from the participant to the CCRS through the network . In the request is illustrated by the dashed line between the media gateway and the CCRS . As should be appreciated in some IP networks the request may be routed to the CCRS on a signaling plane and does not include the audio portion of the communication. The request is then received by the CCRS as indicated by operation of .

Upon receipt the CCRS determines in operation which of the available conference bridges associated with the network that is hosting or will host the collaboration conference requested by the participant. The CCRS may utilize several factors to determine which conference bridge hosts the collaboration conference. Such factors and operations performed by the CCRS to determine the appropriate conference bridge are discussed in more detail below. In addition the CCRS may communicate with one or more of the conference bridges associated with the network in operation . This communication between the CCRS and the conference bridges is illustrated by the dashed lines between the CCRS and the conference bridges in . Further in the embodiment in which the conference bridge is within the network the CCRS would communicate directly with the conference bridge without going through the media gateway device .

In one embodiment the CCRS communicates particularly with the app server component of the conference bridge to determine the appropriate collaboration bridge and to establish the collaboration conference. The app server component of the conference bridge may provide any information concerning the conference bridge to the CCRS including number and types of available ports the technical capabilities of the conference bridge current collaboration conferences being hosted by the conference bridge and the like. In another example the conference bridge may be a SIP based conference bridge. In this example the CCRS would communicate with the app server through the network interface unit . The app server then provisions the requested ports and notifies the CCRS when such ports are available for the collaboration conference. In addition the app server provides the information of the conference bridge that may be utilized by the CCRS to determine which conference bridge will host the collaboration conference.

For example a participant may utilize the telephonic device or other communication device to access the network and request access to a collaboration conference. The media gateway associated with the communication device routes the request to the CCRS . In response the CCRS identifies conference bridge B as the conference bridge which will host or is hosting the collaboration conference. In one embodiment the CCRS communicates with conference bridge B to determine availability and verify that the collaboration conference is hosted on conference bridge B.

In operation the CCRS requests an open communication port from the conference bridge identified in operation . In the embodiment shown in the conference bridge may utilize a port in the DSP component of the conference bridge in response to the request sent by the CCRS . The open port in the DSP component allows the participant to connect to the collaboration conference hosted by the conference bridge and participate in the conference. In addition the conference bridge may transmit an acknowledgement to the CCRS from which the request originated to indicate that the requested communication is open. Again in IP based networks the request for available ports and acknowledgement may occur on a separate communication signal than the audio or video portion of the collaboration communication. Further a SIP based network the request may include certain information in the header of the request such as the master ID number and or the number of requested ports. The request made by the CCRS to the conference bridge is illustrated in as the dashed line from the CCRS to the media gateways associated with each conference bridge.

In operation the CCRS receives the acknowledgement message from the conference bridge . In one embodiment the acknowledgement message contains information that identifies the open port to the CCRS . For example in the SIP based embodiment the acknowledgment may include the IP address of the conference bridge in the header of the message. In response to receiving the acknowledgement message the CCRS routes the participant s communication to the open port in the conferencing bridge in operation . In one embodiment the CCRS facilitates the communication to the conference bridge such that the audio portion of the communication from the participant is no longer routed through the CCRS. For example in a network that utilizes Session Initiation Protocol SIP the CCRS may issue a SIP Refer command to the media gateway in operation to route the participant communication to the conference bridge effectively removing the CCRS from the communication flow. This refer message may include the IP address of the selected conference bridge in the header such that the network can route the communication to the selected conference bridge. The connection of the communication bypassing the CCRS is illustrated in as the solid line connecting the media gateway associated with the participant s telephonic device and the media gateway associated with conference bridge A . Thus through the use of the method outlined in the CCRS may receive a request from a participant of a collaboration conference and route the participant to the proper conference bridge that hosts the specific collaboration conference. In a similar manner collaboration conference participants may be routed to media gateway and conference bridge A such that multiple conferences may be occurring simultaneously through the network on multiple conferencing bridges .

As can be understood in light of the CCRS described above utilizing a central conferencing server provides several advantages over previous conferencing systems. As mentioned prior art conferencing systems statically connected each participant to a conferencing bridge based on the number assigned to the participant. Thus such networks had no mechanism for adjusting the load on any one conferencing bridge based on the number of conference participants. In addition such systems proved difficult in determining proper billing rates for the collaboration conference as each participant could be requesting access to the conference from any place on the globe without any central mechanism for determining the location of each participant.

In contrast the CCRS of the present disclosure provides flexibility in the routing and handling of the collaboration conferences. For example because each participant request is directed to the CCRS handling of the participant request is easier on the communications network as the termination point for each request is the same component of the network. In particular by including a component of the network that is dedicated to handling all requests for a conference participation other components in the network that were previously tasked with receiving and routing the request may be freed to handle other type of network traffic. In addition the CCRS provides protection against unintended overloading of a conference bridge. For example a very large company with several thousand employees may utilize the communication network for collaboration conferences. However because collaboration conference numbers are typically directly associated to a dedicated conference bridge for that number too many employees of a particular company attempting to initiate a collaboration conference at the same time may overload a conference bridge that is already hosting several other collaboration conferences. To prevent this many communication networks may assign several conferencing access numbers to the very large company so that the employees are spread over several conference bridges. However providing several conferencing access numbers to a single entity may be confusing to the employees of the very large company. In contrast because the CCRS provides dynamic routing of the conference participants a single conference access number may be provided to the very large company as the same conference access number may be routed to any one of the available conferencing bridges rather than the dedicated conference bridge for the number. In this example even if an inordinate number of employees attempt to initiate collaboration conferences at the same time the CCRS can route the participants accordingly such that all of the collaboration conferences do not end up on the same conference bridge that may overload the bridge.

In another example an administrator of a collaboration conference may prefer to include other types of multimedia communications to accompany the voice portion of the collaboration conference. For example a web page may be provided to an administrator of the conference to provide presentations and or control over the conference. The web moderator web page provides such control features as the ability to mute all participants disconnect a particular individual participant show the number and identification of each participant and the like. However such a web page may not be within the capabilities of each conference bridge. Thus when such features are requested by a moderator of the collaboration conference it is often advantageous to place the conference on a conference bridge that supports such features. Such routing of a conference to a conference bridge that supports the technical requirements of the collaboration conference can occur dynamically through the use of the CCRS described above. Further examples of dynamic routing advantages gained through the use of a CCRS in the telecommunications network are described below.

Also a conferencing system that utilizes a CCRS can adapt to varying aspects of the collaboration conference. For example the CCRS may identify that the participants to a particular collaboration conference are originating from a certain region of the world based on the telephonic device the requester accesses the network. In this example the CCRS can route each participant to a conference bridge that is geographically located near the region of the world of each participant to improve the reliability of the conference. Also the CCRS may aid in the accurate billing of the conference to a customer by providing a central location in which information for each participant to a conference can be retained and retrieved by the telecommunications network. Such information may not be available to a conference bridge that just receives communications from the telecommunications network as the information may be spread over any number of devices in the network.

An additional advantage provided by the CCRS is a more robust and faster disaster recovery during failure of a conference bridge hosting a collaboration conference. In previous conferencing systems such disaster recovery required a network administrator to reroute each participant to the conference to a new conference bridge requiring both time and manpower to accomplish. In contrast the CCRS as described herein may be programmed to identify a failure at a conference bridge and dynamically reroute each participant to a new conference bridge. This rerouting of the participants to a new conference bridge may occur with or without action by a network administrator such that disaster recovery occurs automatically. These advantages and more may be realized through the utilization of a CCRS in a conferencing system provided by a telecommunications network.

The CCRS may include a database configured to store information concerning an associated network one or more customers or users of the network identification numbers and or any other information useful by the CCRS in routing billing load balancing disaster recover and the like for collaboration conferencing communications. For example the database may store identification numbers for individuals or groups of users to the network who have access to a collaboration conference feature. Associated with the identification numbers may be one or more telephone numbers access codes communication device identifications master identifications and routing rules associated with the users. The database may also store information associated with the routing and handling of collaboration conferencing such as accepted communication devices welcoming messages and operational rules for conducting the collaboration conference. In general any information that may be utilized by the CCRS to route a collaboration communication and conduct the collaboration conference may be stored in one or more databases associated with the CCRS.

The CCRS also includes a web server or web application that utilizes one or more applications stored in an application server to execute the one or more applications. For example the web server may include one or more application programming interfaces APIs that execute any number of stored applications to perform the operations described herein. The web server may also enable the provisioning of the databases of the CCRS by the application server . In addition the CCRS may include a network interface unit as a proxy for receiving any type of information and or instructions from the network to route the communication. The network interface unit may also initiate one or more of the applications stored in the application server or database for execution by the CCRS and or receive a request from the telecommunications network to initiate a collaboration conference.

Through the use of the described components the CCRS provides added flexibility and features to collaboration conferencing not previously available. For example because each collaboration conference request is routed through the CCRS or system of CCRS routing rules may be applied to a block of related requesters identified by a master ID number or customer number removing the need to update the routing rules for each member associated with the master ID or customer number. In addition the database of the CCRS may maintain a control engine or state of a particular CCRS that determines which conference bridge a collaboration conference occurs. Thus through the centralized nature of the CCRS and the storage of customer and conference information the CCRS provides flexibility in routing the collaboration conference requests.

In operation the CCRS may perform the operations of the flowchart of . In particular the CCRS receives a request to establish a collaboration conference at the network interface in operation . The request may include information concerning the requestor such as requestor s telephone number and access code number. However although the operations of are described in reference to the request comprising the requestor s telephone phone number and access code number this is but one example of the information used by the CCRS to identify the requester. For example the request may include an identification of the requester s communication device such as a text string of the requester s personal computer. In another example the requester s name may be used as the identifier of the requester in the request. Thus any operation described herein utilizing the requester s telephone number and access code may be applied to other information contained in the request. For ease of instruction however the example of the telephone number and access code number is used.

Upon receiving the request the application server in concert with the web server utilizes the requestor s telephone number and access code number to possibly determine a group ID number for the requester in operation . In particular with the requester s information the application server accesses a lookup table stored in the database to match the telephone number and code access number to the group ID number. In some instances it is advantageous to associate a group ID number to a group of users of the collaboration conference system. For example through the group ID one or more routing rules may be applied to the entire group without the need to provide a routing rule for each individual member of the group. In some instances the group ID number may be associated with a customer ID number such that each member associated with a customer ID number is given the same group ID number and alterations to the customer s account with the network can be applied to each group member through alterations to routing rules associated with the group ID number. Other information concerning the requester the network and or the collaboration conference may also be retrieved by the application server .

In operation the application server may also associate a master ID reference or number to the collaboration conference request and stores the master ID reference or number in the database . The master ID reference or number is utilized by the network to track the collaboration conference and the participants to the conference and may be associated with the requester s information. With the master ID number associated with the request the application server again accesses the database to determine a state of the collaboration conference. In general if the collaboration conference has been established on a conference bridge such that the requester is a participant to the collaboration conference and not the initiator the database includes an identification of the conference bridge on which the collaboration conferencing is hosted. Alternatively if the request is to initiate a new collaboration conference the database includes a notification the request is a request for a new collaboration conference at which point the application server routes the request to a master CCRS device that executes a master control engine application to determine which conference bridge will host the conference. In this manner the components of the CCRS receive the request to join or initiate a collaboration conference and route the request to the proper conference bridge.

As mentioned above the database may include a subscriber information table that associates information of the requester such as a telephone number access code number or other identification or reference of a requestor to a group ID number for the CCRS system. Thus several different requester references can be associated with the same group ID number such as a customer number. In addition one or more routing rules can be associated with a group ID number in the database . For example one routing rule may restrict all collaboration conferences for a particular group ID number to a particular conference bridge. This removes the need to manually change the routing rules for each individual requester for all of the members of a particular group ID number. Further the database of the CCRS may be utilized by a control engine of the CCRS system to store information utilized by the control engine such as associating a master ID number of a collaboration conference with an ID of the conference bridge on which the conference is hosted the status of a collaboration conference the start time of the collaboration conference the participant count of the conference the maximum number of participants that have attended the particular conference and the like. In general the database may include any information concerning collaboration conferences hosted by the telecommunications network.

I O device may also include an input device not shown such as an alphanumeric input device including alphanumeric and other keys for communicating information and or command selections to the processors . Another type of user input device includes cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to the processors and for controlling cursor movement on the display device.

System may include a dynamic storage device referred to as main memory or a random access memory RAM or other computer readable devices coupled to the processor bus for storing information and instructions to be executed by the processors . Main memory also may be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions by the processors . System may include a read only memory ROM and or other static storage device coupled to the processor bus for storing static information and instructions for the processors . The system set forth in is but one possible example of a computer system that may employ or be configured in accordance with aspects of the present disclosure.

According to one embodiment the above techniques may be performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in main memory . These instructions may be read into main memory from another machine readable medium such as a storage device. Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in main memory may cause processors to perform the process steps described herein. In alternative embodiments circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with the software instructions. Thus embodiments of the present disclosure may include both hardware and software components.

A machine readable medium includes any mechanism for storing information in a form e.g. software processing application readable by a machine e.g. a computer . Such media may take the form of but is not limited to non volatile media and volatile media. Non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks. Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as main memory . Common forms of machine readable medium may include but is not limited to magnetic storage medium e.g. floppy diskette optical storage medium e.g. CD ROM magneto optical storage medium read only memory ROM random access memory RAM erasable programmable memory e.g. EPROM and EEPROM flash memory or other types of medium suitable for storing electronic instructions.

By utilizing one or more of the embodiments described above the CCRS system may route a collaboration conference communication to an appropriate conference bridge based on any number of preferences or information about the requester and or communication network. In one example the CCRS may employ one or more control engines that monitor or maintain a status of the collaboration conferences occurring over the network. The control engines maintain information about each collaboration conference such as a master identification number for the conference a status such as active inactive temporary or unknown the conference bridge on which the conference is hosted a start time for the conference a participant count a maximum participant count and a stop time for the conference among other information in a database associated with the CCRS system. In general the control engines may obtain or receive any information about the conference and maintain a record of the information for use by the CCRS system. As such each control engine in the CCRS may be connected to or otherwise associated with the conference bridges associated with the communications network to provide and receive information concerning the collaboration conferences of the network. In one embodiment the control engines may be an application executed by the application server with the information or data stored in the database . The operation of the control engine in relation to the CCRS is described in more detail in concurrently filed nonprovisional application Ser. No. 13 708 659 titled METHOD FOR ROUTING IN A CENTRAL CONFERENCING ROUTING SERVER which is hereby incorporated by reference herein.

The CCRS may utilize the information maintained in the database or databases of the CCRS system to perform several of the functions related to the routing of conference communications described above. For example a request received by the CCRS to join an existing collaboration conference may be routed to the correct conference bridge by referring to the information stored by the control engines in the database. As mentioned above the control engines maintain a status of each conference and the conference bridge on which the conference occurs. With this information the CCRS may appropriately route any additional participants to the correct conference bridge. Such information may also aid in routing requests for a new collaboration conference to a suitable conference bridge including based on network performance and user preferences. One example of such a CCRS system utilizing performance and preference information to route one or more requests to initiate a collaboration conference is described in more detail below.

In addition through the use of the CCRS system a network can account for failures or maintenance of the conference bridges with little impact on the collaboration conferences that are occurring. Further this disaster recovery system provides high port utilization of the conference bridges than in previous disaster recovery methods that utilized a redundant conference bridge that remained idle for the majority of the operating time of the system. As explained in more detail below by identifying a conference bridge that may be offline and moving the current and future collaboration conferences to other conference bridges within the CCRS system the need for idle backup conference bridges is removed providing a greater port utilization of the system.

In addition the CCRS may be connected to any number of conference bridges . The conference bridges are similar to the conference bridges described above with relation to such that the connections between the CCRS and the conference bridges may occur over one or more telecommunications networks. In general the conference bridges host collaboration conferences. Although five such conference bridges are shown in it is contemplated that any number of conference bridges may be connected to or otherwise associated the CCRS . Also although the system of is configured such that the CCRS is connected to each available conference bridge through CCRS bridge communication lines the system may be configured differently such that the CCRS is connected to any number of available conference bridges. As should be appreciated the CCRS bridge communication lines may occur over any number of telecommunications networks as described in relation to above.

Through the use of the CCRS system illustrated in a load balancing or intelligent routing of collaboration conference requests can be accomplished. In particular referring to the CCRS system receives a request to join a collaboration conference in operation and determines the conference bridge that will host the collaboration conference in operation . The flowchart of is one embodiment of a method to receive such a request and determine the hosting conference bridge based on performance parameters of the conference bridges. In one specific example implementation the operations of the flowchart of may be performed by a CCRS executing the master control engine application by collecting performance information from the conference bridges and selecting a conference bridge for hosting the collaboration conference based at least in part on the performance information. The method of load balancing in relation to the CCRS is described in more detail in concurrently filed nonprovisional application Ser. No. 13 708 678 titled LOAD BALANCING IN A CENTRAL CONFERENCING ROUTING SERVER which is hereby incorporated by reference herein.

Beginning in operation the CCRS determines a master identification or master ID for the collaboration conference request. In particular the request received by the CCRS from the requester may include any information to identify the requester including a telephone number and an access code number. With this information contained in the request the CCRS accesses a database of customer related information and determines a master ID number that is associated with the request. In one embodiment the master ID number is related to a group ID number of the requester. In general the master ID number aids the CCRS in identifying the collaboration conference and tracking the progress of the collaboration conference within the network. Further as explained in more detail below the group ID number if one is associated with the requester may be used as a reference to determine one or more priority tables or routing rules to apply to the collaboration conference request.

After the master ID and possibly related number group is determined in operation the CCRS obtains a priority list or table associated with that master ID or number group from the database. In general the priority table includes a list of one or more of the conference bridges of the network prioritized in order of preference for the particular master ID or group ID number identified in operation . Such prioritization of the conference bridges in the priority table may be for any number of performance reasons. In one embodiment the priority given to any conference bridge is based on the geographic location of the conference bridge. For example a customer to the telecommunications network may request that all collaboration conferences transmitted from that customer occur on a conference bridge local to the customer. In another embodiment the priority may be based on the technical features of a conference bridge. For example a particular customer to the telecommunications network may request access to conference bridges that provide both video and audio collaboration capabilities. Such technical features may be provided by a SIP or other IP based conference bridges. Therefore in this example the conference bridges in the network that provide such services may be given a higher priority than those bridges that do not provide such technical features.

Returning to the method of once the priority table for the requester is obtained the CCRS performs a load analysis for the conference bridges with the highest priority in the priority list in operation . In one embodiment the load analysis is performed only for the conference bridges with the highest priority. In another embodiment the load analysis for each conference bridge connected to the CCRS is performed. In yet another embodiment the load analysis is performed at regular intervals regardless of the priority tables stored in the database. In this embodiment the CCRS may store the results of the load analysis in a database for use by the CCRS at any time. Thus rather than performing the load analysis at the time a conference is requested the CCRS may instead retrieve the latest load analysis information stored in the database for one of more of the conference bridges.

Thus in operation of the CCRS conducts the load analysis for at least the conference bridges with the highest priority. In operation the CCRS determines if any of the conference bridges identified in operation are available. If not the CCRS removes from consideration those bridges with the highest priority in operation . In other words if the CCRS determines that no conference bridge with the highest priority is available to host the collaboration conference request the CCRS moves to the next lower priority level and again determines the load availability of the conference bridge or conference bridges for the next priority level in operation . However if it is determined in operation that a conference bridge is available based on the load calculation for the bridge or bridges the CCRS selects a conference bridge to host the collaboration conference in operation .

With the selection of the conference bridge in operation the CCRS can return to the method of and connect the requester to a conference bridge for the collaboration conference. Thus through the operations of the CCRS can intelligently route collaboration conferencing requests to a conference bridge based on a preference by the requester through the priority table and on the available capacity for the preferred conference bridge or bridges among possibly other factors. In this manner collaboration conferences that utilize the CCRS system can be balanced to avoid over loading of a conference bridge as well as provide flexibility of the network in providing the type of collaboration conference desired by the customers to the network.

The priority lists for each master ID or group ID number stored in the database or databases of the CCRS system may also aid in situations where a conference bridge is failing or requires maintenance. In particular the priority lists may be adjusted to account for any conference bridge which may go offline be taken offline or partially or completely fail. is a flowchart of a method of the CCRS system for placing a conference bridge in a conferencing system offline. is a flowchart of a method for disaster recovery of a conferencing system after a failure at a conference bridge. Thus the operations of the flowcharts of and may be performed by the CCRS system and in particular the master control engine or master CCRS.

In previous collaboration conferencing routing systems an idle conference bridge is typically provided to act as a back up conference bridge in the case of a bridge failure. Thus when a conference bridge enters a failure state the collaboration conferences hosted by the failed bridge are moved onto the back up conference bridge. However because the back up is available at any time as the back up bridge it remains idle during the majority of the operation time of the collaboration conference system. As such back up conference bridges use up network resources such as available power only to provide a redundant conference bridge for failures. In contrast by spreading out the function of the back up conference bridge across the other conference bridges in the system a higher communication port utilization of the conferencing system is achieved among other advantages.

As mentioned the CCRS system can account for conference bridges that may require maintenance during operation of the bridge. In this situation the collaboration conferences being hosted by the conference bridge at issue may be allowed to complete while new collaboration conferences are routed to other conference bridges in the system. One method by which the CCRS system may dry up the collaboration conferences on the conference bridge with a scheduled maintenance is provided for in the flowchart of .

Beginning in operation a CCRS device such as the master CCRS device executing the master control engine application of the CCRS system receives a notice that maintenance is scheduled for a particular conference bridge in the CCRS system. In one example the notice is generated by an administrator of the CCRS system or telecommunications network. In another example the notice may be automatically generated by the network in response to monitoring the operations of the network. Further the notice may include a scheduled time on which the maintenance is to take place such that the operations of may take place prior to the scheduled maintenance.

Upon receipt of the notice in operation the CCRS may remove the identified conference bridge from the priority lists maintained in the CCRS database. As explained above one or more priority lists may be stored in the CCRS database that provides routing rules for the customers of the telecommunications network. Thus the conference bridge affected by the scheduled maintenance may be included in one or more such priority lists stored in the database. In operation this bridge may be removed from the priority lists in the database.

The removal of the conference bridge from the priority lists may occur in many ways. In one example the conference bridge is deleted from each priority list. In another example an unavailable state is associated with the conference bridge in each priority list such that the unavailable bridge is not selected as the hosting conference bridge during the selection process. In any event the instances of the conference bridge stored in the database are altered such that new collaboration conferences are no longer routed to the conference bridge scheduled for maintenance or otherwise being taken offline.

Although no new collaboration conferences are routed to the conference bridge through the removal of the conference bridge from the priority lists the conference bridge still hosts collaboration conferences that were active on the conference bridge when the notice was received. Thus in operation the CCRS continues to route any new participants to any existing collaboration conferences on the conference bridge. In particular the state for the collaboration conferences on the conference bridge remains active such that new participants are routed to the conference bridge. However once the conference has completed no additional collaboration conferences are routed to the conference bridge. In this manner the conference traffic on the conference bridge is allowed to dry up or complete prior to maintenance being performed.

In some instances a conference bridge may fail for a variety of reasons. Further the conference bridge may continue to operate but the operation of the conference bridge is not ideal such as a reduction in quality of the audio video of the communications slow connection speed and the like . In such cases the CCRS may perform the operations shown in the flowchart of .

Similar to operation of the CCRS receives a notice in operation . However the notice indicates that a conference bridge of the CCRS system is failing or has failed. In one example the notice is generated by an administrator of the CCRS system or telecommunications network that is monitoring the performance of the conference bridges of the network. In another example the notice may be automatically generated by a conference bridge that experiences degradation in performance. Further the notice may include an identification of the conference bridge that is failing.

In operation the conference bridge is removed from the priority lists stored in the database of the CCRS. This operation is similar to operation described above with respect to and the removal of the conference bridge from the priority lists may occur in the same fashion as described above. By removing the conference bridge from the priority lists the CCRS no longer routes any new requests for a collaboration conference to the failing conference bridge.

In addition to ceasing routing of new collaboration conferences to the failing conference bridge the CCRS may also reroute any lost existing collaboration conferences on the bridge. Thus in operation the CCRS sets the state for those collaboration conferences that are hosted by the conference bridge to unknown . Setting the state of existing collaboration conferences to an unknown state provides a way for the CCRS to cease routing requests to join an existing conference on the conference bridge. In particular the CCRS may be configured using the master ID number to check the state of an existing collaboration conference when receiving a request to join such a collaboration conference. If the CCRS determines that the state of the existing collaboration conference is unknown the CCRS may then begin a new collaboration conference on a separate conference bridge. In another embodiment the CCRS provides a busy signal to the requester attempting to join an existing collaboration conference on a failing conference bridge based on the stored unknown state of the conference.

Further in some configurations the CCRS system includes several CCRS devices that operate in accord to route the various collaboration conferences to the conference bridges. In such a configuration the master CCRS or master control engine broadcasts the unknown state of the existing collaboration conferences on the failing bridge to the other CCRS devices in the CCRS system in operation . The unknown state for these collaboration conferences is then stored in the databases associated with the CCRS devices such that each CCRS device can determine that the existing collaboration conferences may be terminated by the failing bridge. Thus when a request to join the existing collaboration conference on the failing bridge is received the request may be forwarded to the master control engine for routing to a functioning conference bridge.

In some instances however the above operations result in a split collaboration conference. In general a split collaboration conference occurs when participants to the conference are split between two or more conference bridges. For example a failing bridge may prevent new participants from joining an existing collaboration conference but allows the existing collaboration conference to continue albeit at lesser performance in some cases. In this circumstance the new participants may be routed to a new collaboration conference on a functioning conference bridge while the participants that have joined the collaboration conference remain on the failing bridge. Thus in operation the CCRS transmits a split conference notice to a network administrator if a split conference arises from the failing conference bridge. The split conference notice may include information concerning the split conference such as the number of participants on the existing conference the conference bridge of the new collaboration conference and the start time of the new collaboration conference. The network administrator upon receiving the notice may take steps to correct the split conference by switching the participants on the failing conference bridge to the new collaboration conference such that the conference can continue. In another embodiment the split conference notice is received and processed by the network automatically.

As mentioned above the CCRS system may include a plurality of control engines executing on several CCRS devices or application servers. As such a master CCRS device or master control engine may be set to determine which control engine routes a collaboration conference request. In one embodiment the master control engine may be determined by connection criteria. For example each control engine of the CCRS devices may maintain a total number of bridges that are connected to all of the control engines with which the local control engine is communicating. In this embodiment the control engine that sees the highest total number of bridges is selected as the master control engine and handles all collaboration conference requests for the CCRS system. However if more than one control engine sees the highest total number of bridge connections the control engine with the highest number of local connections between the control engines with the highest total number is selected as the master control engine. If no single control engine is selected by the first two criteria than a prioritized system ID may be employed to select the master control engine. It should be appreciated that this is but one example of a method for selecting the master control engine and any method to select a master control engine from the operating control engines may be employed. The use of a master control engine to identify the conference bridge for a new collaboration conference may aid in preventing a split conference being established on multiple bridges. Additionally any control engine of the CCRS may act as the master control engine based on any criteria including the example mentioned above. Some delay may be incorporated into the switching the master control engine from one engine to another to prevent bouncing from one engine to another rapidly.

The CCRS includes other features that may aid the network in transmitting collaboration conferences. For example one embodiment of the CCRS may route an internet or web connection that is associated with the collaboration conference to the same conference bridge that hosts the conference to maintain continuity between the related web application and the conference. Another example may include a conference lingering feature that maintains the status of each conference in the state engines for a specified amount of time to allow any changes or alterations to the requesters account to propagate to each conference bridge and state engine associated with the CCRS. Additionally the CCRS may be configured to collect information about the conferences and store this information for analyze or use by the network and or administrators of the network. For example information on the number of participants associated with any conference may be maintained for future analysis to differentiate large conference users for future routing decisions.

Embodiments of the present disclosure include various steps which are described in this specification. The steps may be performed by hardware components or may be embodied in machine executable instructions which may be used to cause a general purpose or special purpose processor programmed with the instructions to perform the steps. Alternatively the steps may be performed by a combination of hardware software and or firmware.

The foregoing merely illustrates the principles of the invention. Various modifications and alterations to the described embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art in view of the teachings herein. It will thus be appreciated that those skilled in the art will be able to devise numerous systems arrangements and methods which although not explicitly shown or described herein embody the principles of the invention and are thus within the spirit and scope of the present invention. From the above description and drawings it will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that the particular embodiments shown and described are for purposes of illustrations only and are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention. References to details of particular embodiments are not intended to limit the scope of the invention.

