---

title: System and method for determining and acting on a user's value across different platforms
abstract: Individual users may log into the same online game from multiple different social networking platforms. The disclosed technology provides a way to unite users' accounts such that users that have logged into the online game from different social networking platforms can have their progress in the online game preserved regardless of which social networking platforms the user logged in from. Business intelligence about differences in the user's value when logging in from the different social networking platforms can be determined and incentivizing actions can be performed on the social networking platforms based on the business intelligence.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09656179&OS=09656179&RS=09656179
owner: Aftershock Services, Inc.
number: 09656179
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150420
---
The disclosure relates to an online game where individual users may log into the online game from multiple different social networking platforms. The disclosure provides users that have logged into the online game from different social networking platforms can have their progress in the online game preserved regardless of which social networking platforms the user previously logged in from. Business intelligence about the social networking platforms can be determined from the users participation in the online game via the different social networking platforms.

Social online games are known. Typically users log into a social online game from a social networking platform e.g. Facebook Google and the like. The gaming experience within the online game may be tied into the social networking platform. For example the user interface of the online game may be presented within the user interface for the social networking platform notifications of the activity of a user may be sent back to the social networking platform for presentation other users that are linked to the user may be recommended for cooperation in the online game and or other features may be tied to the social networking platform.

Generally if an online game is provided for different social networking platforms then the online game is provided separately to each of the different social networking platforms. As such in order for a user to participate in the online game from two different social networking platforms the user often have two separate user accounts for the online game e.g. one for each social networking platform . If users log into the online game from different social networking platforms the typically may not be able to participate in the game with each other and may be restricted to participation with other users that have logged in through the same social networking platform. Furthermore if the user logs into the online game from one social networking platform and later the user logs into the online game from a second social networking platform the user s progress in the online game may not be accurately reflected when the user is logged in from the second social networking platform. Additionally the provider of the online game may not fully determine the value of the user because the business intelligence about that user how the user spends his time in and money on the game is spread over multiple accounts from multiple social networking platforms.

One aspect of the disclosure relates to a system and method for uniting a user account for an online game across two or more social networking platforms e.g. a first social networking platform and a second social networking platform. This typically includes enabling an individual user to log into the online game which may take place in a virtual space through two or more of different social networking platforms thereby extending the accessibility of the online game with respect to the individual user. The disclosed technology may reduce or eliminate the user logging into the online game from two different social networking platforms to have two different user accounts for the online game. The disclosed technology may unite these accounts and may among other things provide the user with the ability to play the game as if there were one account e.g. every time the user logs into the game he may be presented with an up to date version of his account regardless if the user is logging in or last logged in from one social network or another. Once the accounts are united business intelligence can be implemented to assist the provider of the online game with measurable metrics for the individual user across the various social networking platforms. This may enable the provider to determine and or target user social networking platform combinations that have relatively high values to identify relative value of different users on an individual social networking platform and or perform other analysis.

In one aspect of the disclosed technology there is a system for determining and acting on a user s value for an online game when the game is accessed from a first social networking platform and a second social networking platform. The system may include one or more servers. The server may be configured to execute one or more computer modules. The computer modules may include one or more of a federation module a business intelligence module a notification module a space module and or a social networking information module.

In some implementations the federation module may be configured to identify the user that played the online game via the first social networking platform as the same use that played the online game via the second social networking platform.

There may also be a business intelligence module that may be configured to determine for a first metric or multiple metrics the user s value for the online game when the game is accessed via the first social networking platform and may determine for the first metric or metrics the user s value for the online game when the game is accessed via the second social networking platform. Some non limiting examples of metrics may be one or more of revenue generated virtual currency bought or sold time logged into the game time logged into the social network and or number of friends or associates on the first and second social networking platform average revenue per user lifetime value average number of games played or other similar metrics.

There may also be a notification module configured to generate a first notification to the first social networking platform based on determinations for the first metric made by the business intelligence module. In some implementations the business intelligence module may be further configured to determine for a second metric the user s value for the online game when the game is accessed via the first social networking platform and may determine for the second metric the user s value for the online game when the game is accessed via the second social networking platform. In some instances the notification module may be further configured to generate a second notification to the second social networking platform based on determinations for the second metric made by the business intelligence module. Furthermore there may be implementations where the first metric and the second metrics are different metrics.

In some implementations a space module may be configured to execute an instance of a virtual space in which the online game is played and wherein the space module may be configured such that responsive to the first user being logged into the online game by the authentication module the space module i implements the instance of the virtual space to determine view information that defines a view of the virtual space for presentation to the first user and ii transmits the view information to a client computing platform associated with the first user to facilitate presentation of the view of the virtual space to the first user on the client computing platform.

Additionally there may also be a social network information module which may be configured to aggregate social networking information that is received from the first and second social networking platforms such that user information about the first user received from the first social networking platform and from the second social networking platform may be aggregated for the first user to represent the first user across both social networking platforms.

In one aspect there may also be a computer implemented method for determining a user s value across a multiple platforms. The method may include uniting a user s account in an online game across multiple social networking platforms. A first value of the user s interaction within or related to the online game may be determined for a first metric for a first social networking platform. A second value of the user s interaction within or related to the online game for the first metric for a second social networking platform may also be determined. Then an incentivizing action may be performed on either the first or second social networking platform based on the determined first and second values.

These and other objects features and characteristics of the system and or method disclosed herein as well as the methods of operation and functions of the related elements of structure and the combination of parts and economies of manufacture will become more apparent upon consideration of the following description and the appended claims with reference to the accompanying drawings all of which form a part of this specification wherein like reference numerals designate corresponding parts in the various figures. It is to be expressly understood however that the drawings are for the purpose of illustration and description only and are not intended as a definition of the limits of the invention. As used in the specification and in the claims the singular form of a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.

Server may be configured to execute one or more computer program modules. The one or more computer program modules may include one or more of a space module a user account module an authentication module a social network information module a federation module a notification module a business intelligence module and or other modules.

Space module may be configured to host a virtual space for access by users via client computing platforms . The users may participate in the online game within the virtual space. Hosting the virtual space may include executing an instance of the virtual space and implementing the instance of the virtual space to determine view information representing views of the virtual space. The view information may then be communicated from server to client computing platforms to facilitate presentation of the views to the users. The views may be presented to the users within user interfaces of applications being executed on client computing platforms e.g. web browsers .

In some implementations the virtual space and or the online game may be accessed through one of a plurality of different social networking platforms provided by one of social network servers . The term social networking platform is used generally and the invention is not limited to traditional social networking platforms. Any platform that can provide games or virtual spaces and allows users to interact e.g. Kabam.com Steam Kongregate and the like are within the scope of the invention with respect to social networking platforms. In such implementations accessing the virtual space through a given social networking platform may include logging into the virtual space through the given social networking platform receiving a view of the virtual space within a user interface associated with the given social networking platform e.g. within a web page hosted by the given social networking platform and or other mechanisms for accessing the virtual space from the given social networking platform.

The users may participate in the virtual space and or the online game that takes place therein by inputting input commands to their respective client computing platforms that request an action to be taken within the instance of the virtual space e.g. manipulate an object control a character speak to another character and or other actions . The input commands may be transmitted from client computing platforms to server and received by space module . Responsive to reception of the input commands space module may initiate the requested actions in the instance of the virtual space such that the actions are reflected in the views of the virtual space determined by space module .

A virtual space may comprise a simulated space that is accessible by users via clients e.g. client computing platforms that present the views of the virtual space to a user. The simulated space may have a simulated physical layout express ongoing real time interaction by one or more users and or be constrained by simulated physics that governs interactions between virtual objects in the simulated space. In some instances the simulated physical layout may be a 2 dimensional layout. In other instances the simulated physical layout may be a 3 dimensional layout or a 3 dimensional like but not fully 3 dimensional i.e. 2.5D layout. An instance of a virtual space may be persistent. That is the instance of the virtual space may continue to exist whether or not any given user or set of users is currently logged in and or receiving view information.

The above description of virtual spaces is not intended to be limiting. Space module may be configured to express the virtual space in a more limited or more rich manner. For example views of the virtual space presented to the users may be selected from a limited set of graphics depicting an event in a given place within the virtual space. The views may include additional content e.g. text audio pre stored video content movable icons avatars and or other content that describes particulars of the current state of the space beyond the relatively generic graphics. For example a view of the virtual space may depict a given location in a relatively static manner that may or may not include representations of the characters present at the location. Text may be used to express the actions of the characters present at the location and or effects of the actions and or actions of the characters and or effects may be represented with a relatively limited set of still images and or short animations. For example a battle a meeting a game and or other activities at the given location may be depicted in this manner. Other expressions of individual places within the virtual space are contemplated.

Within the instance of the virtual space or other virtual environment executed by space module users may control characters to interact with the virtual space and or each other. As used herein the term character may refer to an object or group of objects present in the virtual space that represents an individual user. The character may be controlled by the user with which it is associated. The characters may move through and interact with the virtual space e.g. non player characters in the virtual space other objects in the virtual space or the characters may be relatively static visually within views of virtual space. The character representing a given user may be created and or customized by the given user. The character may have an inventory of virtual goods and or currency that the user can use e.g. by manipulation of a character or other user controlled element and or other items display gift and or otherwise interact with within the virtual space.

User account module may be configured to manage user accounts associated with individual users. The user accounts may include information stored by server one or more of the client computing platforms and or other storage locations. The user accounts may include for example information identifying users e.g. a username or handle a number an identifier and or other identifying information within the virtual space security login information e.g. a login code or password virtual space account information subscription information virtual currency account information e.g. related to currency held in credit for a user relationship information e.g. information related to relationships between users in the virtual space virtual space usage information demographic information associated with users interaction history among users in the virtual space information stated by users purchase information of users browsing history of users a client computing platform identification associated with a user a phone number associated with a user and or other information related to users. In some embodiments user account module may store global user identifiers network abstraction identifiers and game user identifiers.

The information included in the user accounts may include character information. For a given user the user account may include character information for one or more characters that are associated with the user in the virtual space. The one or more characters may be persistent within the virtual space. The one or more characters may be controllable by the given user in the virtual space. Controlling the one or more characters may enable the given user to advance within the online game e.g. as the characters progress through the game content available in the virtual space . The given user may be able to control a plurality of the characters within the virtual space simultaneously. The given user may only be able to play one of the characters in the online game in the virtual space at a time. Individual ones of the one or more characters may be unique within the virtual space e.g. have a unique appearance a unique name a unique score or inventory and or be unique in other ways . The character s for which character information is saved in the user profile of the given user may be exclusive to the given user. That is the given user may be the only user that controls those character s . The character information included in the user account for a given character may include one or more of a progress level a status a score an inventory and or other information.

The information included in the user accounts may include social network authentication information. Social authentication information for a given user may include authentication information used to log into a social networking platform e.g. username password and or other authentication information an identifier or other authentication information assigned to the given user by a social networking platform e.g. without disclosing the authentication information to the given user an authentication token or key and or other authentication information. User account module may be configured such that an individual user may have a user account that includes social network authentication information from a plurality of different social networking platforms. This may enable the user to log into the virtual space and or the online game from any one of the plurality of different social networking platforms. This may enhance accessibility to the virtual space and or the online game for the user in contrast to conventional systems in which a user logging into an online game can only do so from an individual social networking platform.

Authentication module may be configured to authenticate users to the virtual space and or the online game therein . Authenticating users to the virtual space may include receiving authentication requests determining whether individual ones of the authentication requests are valid and logging users into the virtual space and or the online game that have submitted valid authentication requests. A valid authentication request may be an authentication request that includes authentication that is valid for one of the users. Determining whether a given authentication request is valid may include referencing one or more user accounts to determine if authentication information in the given authentication request matches authentication information stored in a user account.

In implementations in which users access the virtual space and or the online game therein through the social networking platforms provided by social network servers authentication module may be configured to receive authentication requests that are submitted by users through social network servers . These authentication requests may include social network authentication information. By way of example a social networking platform may include a user interface element that is selectable by a user to initiate access to the virtual space and or the online game . Responsive to selection of the user interface element on the social networking platform an authentication request may be transmitted to server . Authentication module may be configured to receive the authentication request and to determine whether it is a valid authentication request e.g. corresponds to a current user of system . Responsive to the received authentication request being valid access to the virtual space and or the online game may be provided to the user. This may include providing views of the virtual space to the user as described herein and or facilitating user participation in the online game by controlling one or more characters associated with the user e.g. one or more characters for which character information is saved in the user account of the user .

Authentication module may be configured such that for an individual user access may be provided responsive requests from a plurality of different social networking platforms. For example when provided authentication information for the plurality of different social networking platforms are included in the user account for the individual user authentication module may be configured to receive an authentication request from any of the plurality of different social networking platforms and log the individual user into the virtual space through the same user account. For example progress made in the game during a session initiated through a first social networking platform may still be reflected in the user account during a subsequent session initiated through a second social networking platform.

In some implementations persistence of the game state and discerning business intelligence may be accomplished by federation module user account module and business intelligence module using information in the user s account. Specifically federation module and user account module may use a global user identifier network abstraction identifiers and game identifiers to unite a user s account across social networking platforms.

A network abstraction identifier generally represents the particular user s existence within a particular social networking platform irrespective of the games the user plays through that social networking platform. A user s account typically has a network abstraction identifier for each social network that they use to play a game e.g. a first network abstraction identifier for Facebook and a second network abstraction identifier for Google and so on. Network abstraction identifiers often have two components a network identifier generally that reflects the specific social networking platform and a network user identifier generally that represents the user within that social networking platform. As examples network identifier 2 may be used to represent Facebook and network identifier 3 may be used to represent Google and so on. For the network user identifier the user may be represented as network user ID 987654 when he is using the Facebook social networking platform and he is represented as network user id 1234456 when he is using Google . This pairing of network identifier and network user identifier creates a unique pair that together identifies a particular user for a given social networking platform. When paired with a global user identifier this provides a way to unite a particular user over several social networking platforms.

There is also a game user identifier generally configured to represent the user s activity within a given online game. Similar to the network abstraction identifier a game user identifier is typically composed of two values a game identifier that represents the online game and an in game user identifier that represents the user within that game when playing the game through a given social network. Typically the game identifier is the same for all instances of the game regardless of which social network the game is accessed through. For example Dragons of Atlantis may have a game identifier of 8 e.g. regardless if the game is played through Facebook Google or other social networking platforms. The in game user identifier however is typically different for each login used by the user i.e. there is a different in game user identifier for a user logged in through Facebook than for a user even if it is the same user logged in through Google . For example when a user is playing Dragons of Atlantis through Facebook the user s in game user identifier may be 59381. When the user is logged in through Google however the user s in game identifier may be 99263. 

Although the global user identifier network abstraction identifier and game user identifiers and their respective sub components are depicted herein using integers any data type may be used that allows the system to distinguish between users social networking platforms and games. Additionally in some implementations data about the game session may be associated with the global user identifier and a key for a given session may be formed using one or more of the network abstraction identifier the game identifier the in game user identifier and a session identifier. Alternatively in other implementations the global user identifier and network abstraction identifier are associated with data store entries for a user s game session. For example a given session s data may include a key that includes one or more of the global user identifier a network abstraction identifier representing the social networking platform used the game identifier representing the game played and the in game user identifier. Because the global user identifier and network abstraction identifiers allows for a user s accounts to be united across social networking platforms when these are combined with game user identifiers it provides a way to unite a user s accounts for the same game across social networking platforms.

Referring back to social network information module may be configured to receive social networking information from social network servers . The social network information may include information about the users gleaned by the social networking platforms through their usage. The social network information may include for example social graph information indicating friends or links between users in the social networking platforms usage information e.g. usage frequency cumulative use session length material viewed posted or otherwise interacted with demographic information education information and or other information.

Social network information module may be configured to aggregate social network information for individual users. This aggregation may include for a given user aggregating social network information that has the same or similar type across multiple social networking platforms. As a non limiting example social graph information may be combined across multiple social networking platforms to provide a more complete view of the social graph of the given user. This aggregated information may be implemented in providing the virtual space and or the online game to the user. For example the aggregated information may be implemented to suggest alliances or other relationships within the virtual space form groups of characters to participate in the online game together assess user value or potential user value and or customize other aspects of the virtual space and or the online game . By using aggregated information from a plurality of different social networking platforms for an individual user system may provide enhanced customization over systems that only use information from a single social networking platform.

Federation module may be configured to use the global user identifier the network abstraction identifiers and the game user identifiers in the user s account to identify that a given user that has played an online game via one social networking platform is the same user that has played the game via another social networking platform. This may include responsive to a request by the user to play the online game via a social networking platform such as Google identifying the user as having played the same game via Facebook . In some implementations this is accomplished by the federation module determining if the user has a game user identifier in his user account under a network abstraction identifier that is different than the current network abstraction identifier. For example when a user global user identifier 17 uses Google Network ID 3 network user ID 1234456 to play Dragons of Atlantis game ID 8 in game user identifier 99263 the federation module determines if the user has any other network abstraction identifiers in his user account e.g. the user has a Dragons of Atlantis game user identifier game ID 8 in game user identifier 59381 associated with his Facebook account network ID 2 network user ID 987654 . Federation module may then associate the two accounts in the user account and space module may determine which account of the two is the most current and provide the user with a virtual space that reflects the most up to date versions of the user s game account accomplishments characters and the like. As stated above in some embodiments user account module may store global user identifier network abstraction identifier and game user identifiers . In other embodiments federation module stores these identifiers . In still other embodiments user account module and federation module each store some or all of the identifiers and the other of the two modules or other modules and or stores the remaining identifiers.

In some implementations the federation module may unite user accounts upon the user registering with a specific social networking platform. In some embodiments the game provider provides the game via multiple social networking platforms e.g. Facebook Google and also provides the game through its own social networking platform e.g. Kabam.com. When the user requests to play an online game via a first social networking platform the space module may assign the user a game user identifier. Space module then may make a request to federation module and or user account module to receive a network abstraction identifier for the user for that social networking platform. In some embodiments the request for a network abstraction identifier may include the game identifier the user s identifier for that social networking platform e.g. network user identifier username or social networking platform identifier such as a Facebook user id. The federation module and or user account module may then determine which social networking platform the game is being accessed from. If the game is accessed via the game provider s social network federation module may create a global user identifier and the user s previous accounts may be united using the global user identifier. If however the game is being accessed via a social networking platform that is not the social networking platform of the game provider then the global user identifier may not be created. In either scenario the game is accessed via the online game provider s social networking platform or another social networking platform the game may then be provided to the user. In these embodiments the global identifier may therefore not be created until the user accesses the game via the game provider s social networking platform.

In some implementations uniting user accounts obviates having separate virtual spaces for each social networking platform and users from all social networking platforms may interact together. In some implementations though the virtual spaces associated with each social networking platform are maintained as separate virtual spaces and uniting accounts allows users to migrate their information from one virtual space for a first social network to another one for a different social network . In some cases the migration may last any length of time e.g. it may be a permanent migration or the migration may last only as long as a user s session until the user logs in again from a different social networking platform .

Notification module may be configured to generate notifications to social networking platforms indicating activity by the users in the online game session. This may include responsive to a user performing an action in the online game session that triggers a notification generating notifications of the action to a plurality of social networking platforms on which the user has accounts. The notifications may cause an indication of the action to be displayed on walls explained below or similar spaces of the user in the social networking platforms. The notifications may provide indications to users of the social networking platforms that are linked with the user e.g. through a friend relationship through a link and or other relationships . The notifications may be selectable by the other users to gain access to the virtual space and or the online game . Generating the notifications for the individual user to a plurality of social networking platforms may be enabled by the storage by user account module of information related to user accounts of the individual user on the plurality of social networking platforms e.g. social network authentication information and or other information .

Business intelligence module may provide business intelligence about the user and his behavior on and between social networking platforms. Using information received from any of the modules described herein and or the social networking platforms business intelligence module can determine information for a given user on a given social networking platform according to a metric that can either be predetermined or provided by a user administrator of system . The metric may be hard coded or there may be user interface for a user administrator to provide it. Examples of these metrics include but are expressly not limited to revenue generated as a result of the user s activity through that social networking platform time the user is logged into that social networking platform time the user spent playing the game via that social networking platform virtual currency bought or spent by the user via that social networking platform success rate of an ad campaign on the social network average revenue per user lifetime value average number of games played and or number of contacts the user has on that social networking platform. Business intelligence module can also determine information at an aggregate level e.g. which social networking platform has users that buy or spend the most virtual currency on which social networking platform was a particular ad campaign most or least successful which social networking platform s users generated the most revenue which social networking platform s users were logged in the longest and or shortest which social networking platform s users spent the most and or least amount of time playing the game and or which social networking platform s users have the most and or least number of contacts. Other metrics related to marketing and revenue generation are within the scope of the invention.

When the user account is united across social networking platforms as described herein business intelligence module is able to compare the results of the metric analysis described above across social networking platforms for a given user so it can be determined which social networks are more valuable e.g. of the multiple social networking platforms the user logs in from on which social networking platform does the user buy or spend the most virtual currency on which social networking platform did the user respond to a particular ad campaign of the multiple social networking platforms the user logs in from which social networking platform generated the most revenue from that user from which social networking platform was that user logged in the longest and or shortest from which social networking platform did that user spend the most and or least amount of time playing the game and or of the multiple social networking platforms the user logs in from on which social networking platform does user have the most and or least number of contacts.

Additionally in some implementations business intelligence module may also provide business intelligence across games as well. For example business intelligence module may compare the revenue generated by a user in one game against revenue generated by that user in another game. This may allow game developers or marketers or the like to determine which ad campaigns in game promotions game mechanics or other revenue generating strategies are effective. Alternatively or additionally business intelligence module may provide insight as to a user s behavior or attitude towards different games e.g. as the user starts playing one game he plays a second game less. Or he plays both equally or he begins playing the game second game again after playing the first for only a short period of time. These allow the game developer to make determinations about what is incentivizing the player to play the games. In some implementations business intelligence module provides business intelligence across social networking platforms and across games e.g. determining that a particular game type for example generally resource management games are effective on Facebook but not on Google whereas flash games tend to be more profitable across users on Google . Any of the metrics described herein can be analyzed across games.

In some implementations business intelligence module and notification module may be used together to post notifications on the respective social networking platforms to incentivize users contacts and or social graph members to play the game. In certain versions only certain notifications are sent to certain social networking platforms. For example business intelligence module may determine that a given user is generating more revenue when the user is logging in via Facebook than when the user is logging in via Google . In that scenario notification module may then post notifications about the user s progress in the game only to Facebook and not Google because Facebook is deemed a more viable target for revenue generation. Additionally or alternatively business intelligence module may determine that a user has a large number of friends on Google that also have accounts for the online game based on information from the social network information module . In that scenario notification module may post notifications to the user s Google feed about the user s activity in the game session. In some cases only certain notifications are posted to social networking platforms depending on the business intelligence determined by business intelligence module . For example where the user has a large number of friends on Google notification module may only post user competitive oriented notifications to the user s Google account and where the user generates more revenue when he is logged in via Facebook notification module may only post revenue generation oriented notifications to the user s Facebook account. Alternatively notifications may be posted on a social networking platform where the business intelligence module determines the value for the metric are weak e.g. if the user has more friends on Google than Facebook that play the online game notification module may post notifications on the user s Facebook account to recruit Facebook members to play the online game. Similarly if revenue generation is the metric and the user generates more revenue when logged in via Facebook notification module may post to the user s Google account in order to raise the revenue generated by Google members.

Social network servers may be configured to host a plurality of social networking platforms. Social networking platforms may include online services or and or sites that focus on building and reflecting social networks or social relations among people. These services and or sites may enable users to form connections between each other that signify friendships kinship romantic relationships professional relationships and or other relationships. These services and or sites typically enable communication between users and may provide individual users with walls . A user s wall in a social networking platform may refer to a set of content that is available for viewing by other users e.g. users that are linked to the user and pertains to the user. The content on the user s wall may include content posted by the user content posted by other users e.g. users linked to the user and or other content. Content from the user s wall may be provided to other users e.g. in their feeds in a broadcast manner.

A given client computing platform may include one or more processors and electronic display a control interface and or other components. The one or more processors may be configured to execute computer program modules. The computer program modules may be configured to enable or user associated with the given client computing platform to interface with system and or provide other functionality attributed herein to client computing platforms . For example the computer program modules may include a view module configured to receive view information from server e.g. generated by space module and to present a view of the virtual game environment e.g. as described above based on the received view information. This may facilitate participation by the user of the given client computing platform in the game taking place in the virtual game environment. By way of non limiting example the given client computing platform may include one or more of a desktop computer a laptop computer a handheld computer a tablet computing platform a NetBook a Smartphone a gaming console and or other computing platforms.

Server may include electronic storage one or more processors and or other components. Server may include communication lines or ports to enable the exchange of information with a network and or other computing platforms. Illustration of server in is not intended to be limiting. Server may include a plurality of hardware software and or firmware components operating together to provide the functionality attributed herein to server . For example server may be implemented in the cloud by a plurality of computing platforms operating together as server .

Electronic storage may comprise electronic storage media that electronically stores information. The electronic storage media of electronic storage may include one or both of system storage that is provided integrally i.e. substantially non removable with server and or removable storage that is removably connectable to server via for example a port e.g. a USB port a firewire port etc. or a drive e.g. a disk drive etc. . Electronic storage may include one or more of optically readable storage media e.g. optical disks etc. magnetically readable storage media e.g. magnetic tape magnetic hard drive floppy drive etc. electrical charge based storage media e.g. EEPROM RAM etc. solid state storage media e.g. flash drive etc. and or other electronically readable storage media. The electronic storage may include one or more virtual storage resources e.g. cloud storage a virtual private network and or other virtual storage resources . Electronic storage may store software algorithms information determined by processor information received from server information received from client computing platforms and or other information that enables server to function as described herein.

Processor s is configured to provide information processing capabilities in server . As such processor may include one or more of a digital processor an analog processor a digital circuit designed to process information an analog circuit designed to process information a state machine and or other mechanisms for electronically processing information. Although processor is shown in as a single entity this is for illustrative purposes only. In some implementations processor may include a plurality of processing units. These processing units may be physically located within the same device or processor may represent processing functionality of a plurality of devices operating in coordination. The processor may be configured to execute modules and or . Processor may be configured to execute modules and or by software hardware firmware some combination of software hardware and or firmware and or other mechanisms for configuring processing capabilities on processor .

It should be appreciated that although modules and or are illustrated in as being co located within a single processing unit in implementations in which processor includes multiple processing units one or more of modules and or may be located remotely from the other modules. As a non limiting example some or all of the functionality attributed to modules and or may be provided in the cloud by a plurality of processors connected through a network. The description of the functionality provided by the different modules and or herein is for illustrative purposes and is not intended to be limiting as any of modules and or may provide more or less functionality than is described. For example one or more of modules and or may be eliminated and some or all of its functionality may be provided by other ones of modules and or . As another example processor may be configured to execute one or more additional modules that may perform some or all of the functionality attributed below to one of modules and or . Modules and or may execute on one server on multiple distinct servers there may be a server for each respective module or the modules may be combined in any number of permutations to execute on any number of servers. Furthermore server may be a hardware server or it may be a process with a designated memory space executed on a hardware processor.

It will be appreciated that illustration in and the description herein of modules and or being provided for implementation with a single online game and or virtual space e.g. provided by space module is not intended to be limiting. In some implementations one or more of modules and or may provide the functionality described herein for a plurality of separate online games and or virtual spaces e.g. provided by a plurality of space modules . Such implementations may reduce redundancy of an entity that provides a plurality of different online games and or virtual spaces to users through the social networking platforms. In such implementations the one or more of modules and or that are provided to serve a plurality of different online games and or virtual spaces may be executed in a separate server from the server s executing the space modules.

It may also be determined at operation whether or not the user has a network abstraction identifier for this social networking platform. If the user does the network abstraction identifier is retrieved at operation by the federation module . If the user does not a network abstraction identifier for this social networking platform is created and stored at operation in the user s account information.

It may also be determined at operation whether or not the user already has a game user identifier for this game on this social networking platform. If the user does the game user identifier is retrieved at operation . If the user does not a game user identifier is created and stored at operation in the user s account information.

It may also be determined at operation whether the user has network abstraction identifiers for other social networking platforms and game user identifiers for the online game played under those social networking platforms. For example if the user has a game user identifier with game ID 8 under both Facebook and Google it can be determined that the user has played the same game Dragons of Atlantis under two different social networking platforms and consequently using two different in game user accounts. If the user does have this additional game and social networking platform related information the network abstraction identifier and the game user identifier are retrieved at operation .

In some implementations each of the determining retrieving and or storing steps above and or are performed by the federation module . In some implementations the federation module performs the determining steps and or and the user account module performs the retrieving and or storing steps and or . And in still other implementations the user account module the federation module and other modules are coordinated to provide the determining retrieving and storing functionality.

The most current version of the virtual space the most up to date games state and the user s game information may also be determined at operation . In some implementations the space module determines based on the multiple in game user identifiers which virtual space is the most up to date and or current. The user s global identifier network abstraction identifiers and game user identifiers may also be stored at operation by the federation module and or user account module in the user s account information. The virtual space may be provided at operation to the user by the space module . As and or after the user plays the game during the session the state of the virtual space may be stored at operation by space module for later retrieval.

In some implementations the virtual space provided to the user is a virtual space solely for users of the social networking platform that the user is currently using but the user s account information character s accomplishments progress etc. is the most recent. In other implementations the virtual space provided to the user is shared by users of all social networking platforms. In still other implementations the user may be presented a virtual space that is a combination of the virtual spaces available to any user of the respective social networks that the user has accessed the game through e.g. the user may be presented a virtual space that is a combination of the virtual space presented to Facebook user and the virtual space presented to Google users.

The online game via space module may request at operation all network abstraction identifiers for the user associated with the current game via a software development kit SDK or platform application programming interface API calls. In some implementations the game passes its user game identifier or in some versions only the game identifier to the user account module and or federation module as part of the request. In other implementations the user account module and or the federation module may determine the game s game identifier because the request is coming from a particular game whose identifier is known. In some implementations there may be a lookup table or similar data structure or database of games and game identifiers such that the user account module and or federation module can look up a particular game s game identifier when a request is received from that game. The federation module and or the user account module return all network abstraction identifiers associated with user game identifiers that are associated with the same game identifier 

Once any already stored network abstraction identifiers are retrieved the federation module may then determine at operation if there is a network abstraction identifier returned that is different from the network abstraction identifier for the social networking platform that the user is currently using to play the game. If a network abstraction identifier is returned that is different than the current network abstraction identifier the federation module may determine at operation that the user has played the online game via a different social networking platform and may retrieve the in game user identifier for that game at operation .

In some implementations the user game identifiers including the in game user identifier associated with any of the network abstraction identifiers are returned alongside the network abstraction identifiers at operation instead of being separately retrieved at operation .

Upon receiving the additional in game user identifier information the space module may then determine at operation which in game user identifier has the most current virtual space and presents the user at operation with a virtual space reflecting that regardless of the social networking platform that the user is accessing the game from.

Although the system s and or method s of this disclosure have been described in detail for the purpose of illustration based on what is currently considered to be the most practical and preferred implementations it is to be understood that such detail is solely for that purpose and that the disclosure is not limited to the disclosed implementations but on the contrary is intended to cover modifications and equivalent arrangements that are within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. For example it is to be understood that the present disclosure contemplates that to the extent possible one or more features of any implementation can be combined with one or more features of any other implementation.

