---

title: Interface for watching a stream of videos
abstract: A user interface may be provided. A display of one or more levels of control for controlling video playback in the user interface may be provided in response to a first input from a directional controller along a first axis of the directional controller. Each level of control may include at least one control option that is different from control options at another level of control. A focus within a current level of control of the one or more levels of control may be set. The focus may be moved to another control option within the current level of control in response to a second input from the directional controller along a second axis of the directional controller.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09407965&OS=09407965&RS=09407965
owner: GOOGLE INC.
number: 09407965
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150217
---
This application is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 903 882 filed on May 28 2013 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 620 269 filed on Sep. 14 2012 which issued on Jun. 25 2013 as U.S. Pat. No. 8 473 982 which is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 287 336 filed on Nov. 2 2011 which issued on Oct. 16 2012 as U.S. Pat. No. 8 291 452 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 488 682 filed on May 20 2011 each of which is incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

The present disclosure generally relates to video browsing and specifically to browsing sets of videos and continuously playing a set of videos.

For current video hosting websites such as YOUTUBE the user interface includes a video display window where a currently selected video is presented along with various means by which one or more other videos may be selected for viewing. In interfaces that are designed for display on a computer screen the user can select another video by selecting a hyperlink or a thumbnail image that is displayed in a sidebar or by entering a keyword search for a new video.

However the arrangement appearance and behavior of these user interfaces are designed to be used by a user of a conventional computer having input devices such as a mouse which allows the user to easily move a cursor to any point on the display device and keyboard which allows for direct alphanumeric input. As such these user interfaces become difficult to navigate when applied to televisions or other devices where the user input device provide very limited input controls. For instance many televisions are controlled with a simple directional input device that has only up down left and right buttons or keys such as a directional pad D pad or the arrow keys on a keyboard Such devices do not provide for full arbitrary placement control over a cursor but instead only allow for limited vertical and horizontal movements.

The problem is compounded as the number of available videos increases. Many video hosting websites host millions of videos thereby making it all the more important to provide a user interface by which the user can easily browse and search for content of interest. Additionally many users can now very easily view video content from video hosting sites on televisions and other display systems operated by D pad type controllers rather than with a computer mouse and keyboard. Users continue to expect to have the ease of use they are familiar with from their computer experiences in the different system environment of a television or similar display device.

The present disclosure relates to computer implemented methods systems and computer program products for browsing of videos from a video hosting server using a directional control input device such as a D pad or the arrows keys on a keyboard and selecting a video for playback. In one embodiment a video is displayed to a user in a user interface of a client video player the current video . In response to a user selection of an input control on the input device a set of navigation controls are displayed overlaid on the current video which is displayed full screen in the background behind the overlaid navigation controls. The navigation controls are designed for compatibility with the directional control input device.

The client player enables the user to navigate through multiple levels of controls using the up and down inputs of the direction control input device where each level of control provides a specific type of access functionality of accessing videos and controlling playback. For example the levels may include a search level a playback control level a playback level a video level and a channel level. The channel level displays a plurality of different channels equivalently categories of video content. The video level displays a plurality of videos available within a given channel. The playback level displays the current full screen video without overlaid controls. The playback control level displays a set of controls for controlling the playback of the current video. The search level provides an interface by which the user input a search query for searching for videos. The levels are linearly arranged so that the user intuitively knows the order of the levels and how to navigate between them using just the directional controls of the input device.

Within each level there are a number of options for viewing and controlling videos. The left and right directional controls allow the user to navigate the options at each of the various user interface levels. For example at the video level the horizontal navigation controls are effective to focus one of a plurality of video previews that is displayed. Focusing on a video preview causes the display of accompanying metadata providing additional information to the user. The user can then choose to play a focused video with a select input. The user can similarly browse through other options such as previews of channels playback controls or text entered in a search box.

The features and advantages described in this summary and the following detailed description are not all inclusive. Many additional features and advantages will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art in view of the drawings specification and claims hereof.

The figures depict a preferred embodiment of the present disclosure for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles described herein.

As shown in the video hosting server comprises a front end interface an ingest module a video search module a video serving module a video set module a video controls module a video access log a user database and a video database . Many conventional features such as firewalls load balancers application servers failover servers site management tools and so forth are not shown so as not to obscure the features of the system.

The video hosting server can be accessed through various means. A suitable website for implementation of the video hosting server is the YOUTUBE website found at www.youtube.com other video hosting sites are known as well and can be adapted to operate according to the teaching disclosed herein. It will be understood that the term website represents any computer system adapted to serve content using any internetworking protocols and is not intended to be limited to content uploaded or downloaded via the Internet or the HTTP protocol. In general functions described in one embodiment as being performed on the server side can also be performed on the client side in other embodiments if appropriate. In addition the functionality attributed to a particular component can be performed by different or multiple components operating together. The server can also be accessed as a service provided to other systems or devices through appropriate application programming interfaces and thus is not limited to use in websites only.

The video hosting server is implemented as server program executing on server class computer comprising a CPU memory network interface peripheral interfaces and other well known components. The computers themselves run an operating system such as LINUX Microsoft Windows or Mac OS have generally high performance CPUs G or more of memory and 1 TB or more of disk storage. Of course other types of computers can be used and it is expected that as more powerful computers are developed in the future they can be configured in accordance with the teachings here. The functionality implemented by any of the elements can be provided from computer program products e.g. as computer executable instructions that are stored in tangible computer readable storage mediums e.g. RAM hard disk or optical magnetic media .

In one embodiment a client executes a video player and can connect to the video hosting server to view media content herein referred to as a video video content or video items via a network . Network is typically the internet but can also be any network including but not limited to any combination of a LAN a MAN a WAN a mobile wired or wireless network a private network or a virtual private network. While only a two clients and video players are shown it is understood that very large numbers e.g. millions of clients are supported and can be in communication with the video hosting server at any time.

In one embodiment the client may include a variety of different computing devices some examples of which are televisions set top boxes video game consoles personal computers digital assistants personal digital assistants cellular phones mobile phones smart phones tablet computers and laptop computers. The client may be adapted to work with various input devices such examples of which are a mouse keyboard touch screen or remote control. In the various embodiments discussed here the client has a directional control type input device that is generally limited in regards to controlling cursor or focus movement to directional inputs e.g. up down left right and selection inputs select or enter . Of course other types of non cursor inputs may be available on such a device e.g. menu context programming etc. .

The video player includes any application that is adapted for playing and browsing videos stored on the video hosting server . The player can be adapted to play videos in various formats such as Adobe Flash WebM H.264 DivX FFMPEG and the like. In one embodiment the video player may be a standalone program that is specifically dedicated for video playback e.g. a dedicated program in a set top box . In other embodiments the video player is a plug in or add on to a web browser that allows users of client to access web pages on the World Wide Web. Suitable applications are Microsoft Internet Explorer Netscape Navigator Mozilla Firefox Apple Safari or any application adapted to allow access to web pages on the World Wide Web.

The video player allows the user of client to search for and browse through videos hosted by the video hosting server via a user interface provided by the front end interface and loaded into the video player . By loading the user interface in the video player a user can find and play a video. The user can select other videos for playback by browsing through different sets of videos that are related to the current video. Alternatively the user interface can be native to the video player and then populated with its content in the manner as described below.

Users of the client devices can also search for videos on the user interface based on keywords tags or other metadata. In one embodiment these requests are received as queries in the user interface provided by the front end interface and are provided to the video search module which searches the video database for videos that satisfy the queries. The video search module supports searching on any fielded data for video content including its title description tags author category comment and so forth. The video serving module retrieves videos selected by the video search module from the video database which is formatted into a file and transmitted to the client for playback in the user interface.

In some embodiments the video player also allows users to upload videos to the video hosting server via the user interface provided by the front end interface . In one embodiment the uploaded videos provided by users are processed by an ingest module at the video hosting server . The ingest module processes the video for storage in the video database . The processing can include appropriate transformations for the video content. For example video processing can include format conversion transcoding compression metadata tagging and other data processing. The uploaded videos can include for example video audio or a combination of video and audio. The ingest module processes the videos in order to standardize content for playback to users of client . Once uploaded videos have been formatted the ingest module stores the video into the database . An uploaded video is associated with the content publisher i.e. the user that uploaded the video and the content publisher s account record is updated in the user database as needed.

The video database is used to store videos. The video database stores videos and associated metadata provided by their respective content owner who provided the videos. Each stored video is assigned a video identifier ID when it is processed by the ingest module . The videos have metadata associated with each video such as a video ID artist video title label genre time length and optionally geo restrictions that can be used for data collection or content blocking on a geographic basis.

The user database stores a record of all users viewing videos provided by the video hosting server . In one embodiment the user database stores a record of all users who have registered an account with the video hosting server . Each registered account includes at least a user name and e mail address associated with the account. A registered account may also include information about the user associated with the account such as their name hobbies uploaded videos favorite videos and or playlists of videos created by the users.

For each user the video access log tracks the user s interactions with videos from which relationships between videos can be determined. Each entry in the video access log identifies a video being accessed a time of access a user ID if available data identifying the type of interaction with the video. Interaction types can include any user interaction such as playing saving rating sharing pausing rewinding and forwarding a video. The video access log may also maintain information on videos users choose to watch as measured by click thru rates between videos and or percentage of a video watched. For example the click thru rate between a first and second video may be the rate at which users choose e.g. via a user input selection such as a click to view the second video when presented with the first video. For example a click thru rate can be computed as the number of times users choose to view the second video divided by the number of times the users are presented with the option of playing the second video while the first video is being played. Alternatively the click thru rate may be simply computed as the number of times a video is selected for display divided by the number of times the video is presented as available for displaying e.g. a thumbnail or a link . This information as well as other types of information may be used to determine what videos are presented to a user.

The video set module accesses the video access log the user database and or video database to identify sets of videos or channels that have related videos. A set of videos refers to any grouping of videos from the video database . For example a set of videos may include 

The video controls module manages the generation and display of contextual browsing controls for browsing of videos sets. The video controls module receives from the client user inputs with respect to the browsing controls and updates the labels on the controls and the video set that is presented in conjunction with the controls and provides the updated information to front end interface for presentation to the client .

In one embodiment a hierarchy of control levels is used to allow a user to interact with the video server and choose videos to play. For example the levels may include a search level a playback control level a playback level a video level and a channel level displaying previews of videos within a channel. The search level provides an interface by which the user input a search query for searching for videos. The playback level displays the full screen video without overlaid controls. The playback control level displays a set of controls for controlling the playback of the current video. The video level displays a plurality of videos available within a given channel. The channel level displays a plurality of different channels equivalently categories of video content.

The browsing controls allow a user to move the cursor or focus between control levels and to select items or controls within each level such as sets of videos for playback from the channel level or a specific video within a set of videos from the video level. Generally the video controls module receives user inputs from the client via the front end interface for switching between sets of videos browsing within a set of videos or selecting a video for playback. The user inputs are generally originated from a directional controller type of device such as a D pad controller arrow keys on a keyboard or the like which have the semantics of up down left right and select though of course they can be transmitted as coded input signals.

In response the video controls module updates the user interface displayed and the video set that is presented in conjunction with the controls in accordance with the user input. In accordance with an embodiment as the user changes control levels e.g. by pressing up or down on the input device the contextual controls displayed on the screen change. That is for example if a user is navigating the video control level the contextual menu for the video control level is displayed. In response to receiving a down input the contextual menu of the video control level is removed from the display e.g. disappears and is replaced by the contextual control menu of the channel control level.

In some embodiments the functionality of the video controls module may be implemented in the client instead of the server . In one embodiment a full screen video is constantly played on the client . Visual controls e.g. playback controls that are in use by the user can be displayed on top of the full screen video i.e. as a screen overlay . The controls can be displayed semi transparently or opaquely on top of the full screen video.

The contextual controls allow for a simple and intuitive method of selecting an additional video to watch. Also because a user can interact with the controls with a simple set of inputs e.g. up down left right select the interface is particularly beneficial when used in conjunction with devices that have constrained inputs.

The user switches equivalently moves the focus between the various levels by utilizing the up and down inputs generally vertical inputs of a directional input device. For example if currently at the playback level an up input would result in switching to the search level while a down input would result in switching to the playback level . In a similar manner a user can switch between all of the levels listed in column 1 through use of up and down inputs.

Column lists the actions that occur at a given control level when a left or right input generally horizontal input is received from the directional input device. Similarly column lists the actions that occur at a given level when a select input is received from the directional input device. For example while at search level a user can input a string into an input field for a search query. At this level the left and right inputs of the input device result in a cursor moving left or right in the input field such that the user can edit the input. Additionally a select input begins the search query and requests search results from the server to display to the user. While in the playback control level a horizontal input alters the control that is currently selected by the user. A select input executes the currently selected control.

At the playback level a left input causes to the video player to immediately play the previous video in the current channel while a right input causes the video player to immediately play the next video that is scheduled to play in the current channel. In one embodiment reception of a select input while at the playback level causes the client to display playback controls as if an up input was received to switch to playback control level .

Entering the video level displays a plurality of videos that are a part of the current channel from which the currently playing video originated. A left or right input changes which of the plurality of videos has the focus respectively the previous or next video. In one embodiment providing the focus to a video causes the player to display metadata for the video including author date of submission and title. In addition a select input causes the video player to play the focused video. When the video level is entered the channel level may also be displayed concurrently therewith with the current channel being graphically indicated.

Entering channel level causes a plurality of channels to be displayed. Left and right inputs allow the user to focus a channel respectively the previous or next channel. As the user moves the focus from one channel to the next the video player displays in the video level previews or thumbnails of videos that are a part of the currently focused channel. A select input from the directional controller selects the focused channel and begins playback of a first video from the channel. In one embodiment at the conclusion of the first video additional videos from the selected channel will play continuously.

In the video level the user navigates the videos and focuses on individual videos with the left and right controls of the directional controller. The user is not limited to the videos that are initially displayed. Navigating in one direction to the edge of the window causes the row of videos to scroll in the opposite direction and new videos to move into the viewable area. One focused video is selected in the row of videos and can be chosen for playback by a selection input from the directional controller. Metadata is displayed in an information box associated with the focused video . The metadata may include title author submission date video length and number of views. As previously mentioned at the conclusion of a current video an additional video from the same channel as the current video may begin to play automatically in order to provide continuous playback to the user. In one embodiment the row of videos is displayed when the additional video begins and the information box is displayed containing metadata for the additional video to provide additional context to the user. In another embodiment only information box is displayed when the additional video begins to provide metadata related to the additional video to the user.

In one embodiment after signing in a feed channel is automatically displayed to the user in the row of channel previews and includes videos that are determined to be relevant to the user based on the user s interest either express or derived from the user s historical viewing behavior social network and or previous search queries by the user or the like. For example the feed channel may contain videos from channels that the user has subscribed to an example of relevance based on an expressed interest videos that have been shared or recommended by friends of the user an example of relevance based on the user s social network and or videos related to other videos that the user has previously watched an example of relevance based on historical viewing behavior . In one embodiment if the user is already logged in upon startup of the video player the feed channel automatically begins playing as full screen video at the playback level . The customized nature of the feed increases the likelihood of interest from the user.

The above described user interfaces are generally displayed by the video player in response to commands and data provided by the video hosting service . The service generally provides the underlying video content metadata labels previews and other dynamic elements. The player uses this data in conjunction with internal programming logic that implements the functional operations described above in response to the inputs received from the directional controller.

The apparatus described above for performing the described operations may be specially constructed for the required purposes or it may comprise a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a computer readable storage medium such as but is not limited to any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs magnetic optical disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards application specific integrated circuits ASICs or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions and each coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore the computers referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.

Some portions of above description describe the embodiments in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally computationally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits microcode or the like. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules without loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be embodied in software firmware hardware or any combinations thereof.

As used herein any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular element feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein the terms comprises comprising includes including has having or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion. For example a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements is not necessarily limited to only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. Further unless expressly stated to the contrary or refers to an inclusive or and not to an exclusive or. For example a condition A or B is satisfied by any one of the following A is true or present and B is false or not present A is false or not present and B is true or present and both A and B are true or present .

In addition use of the a or an are employed to describe elements and components of the embodiments herein. This is done merely for convenience and to give a general sense of the disclosed embodiments. This description should be read to include one or at least one and the singular also includes the plural unless it is obvious that it is meant otherwise. Similarly the terms first and second are generally used herein to allow clear referencing of different elements of a same class e.g. a first label as simply distinguished from a second label rather than designating an ordering ranking or placement of the first item relative to the second item.

Upon reading this disclosure those of skill in the art will appreciate still additional alternative structural and functional designs for a system and a process for browsing video sets through the disclosed principles herein. Thus while particular embodiments and applications have been illustrated and described it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are not limited to the precise construction and components disclosed herein. Various modifications changes and variations which will be apparent to those skilled in the art may be made in the arrangement operation and details of the method and apparatus disclosed herein without departing from the spirit and scope defined in the appended claims.

