---

title: Devices and methods for controlling operation of arithmetic and logic unit
abstract: In various embodiments, devices and methods for controlling the operation of at least one arithmetic and logic unit are disclosed. In various embodiments, methods and devices for controlling an arithmetic logic unit are disclosed. More particularly, devices may comprise at least one arithmetic and logic unit for processing a task, and a processor for controlling the arithmetic and logic unit according to an electric current consumed by the arithmetic and logic unit at an operating frequency of the arithmetic and logic unit.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09600048&OS=09600048&RS=09600048
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09600048
owner_city: Yeongtong-gu, Suwon-si, Gyeonggi-do
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20150520
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 a to Korean Patent Application No. 10 2014 0060569 filed on May 20 2014 which is hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes as if fully set forth herein.

The present disclosure relates to a method and device for controlling an operation of an arithmetic and logic unit

In recent years with the development of information and communication technologies and semiconductor technologies mobile electronic devices are being widely used. In mobile electronic devices operated by a battery effective power consumption management is an important issue.

In order to process multiple tasks the electronic devices calculate load values for task operations and control operations of arithmetic and logic units e.g. a core a CPU etc. based on the calculated load values. In the electronic devices reduction of current consumption and enhancement of performance conflict with each other. Accordingly methods capable of substantially reducing current consumption and improving performance are desired.

In various embodiments methods and devices for controlling an arithmetic logic unit are disclosed. More particularly devices may comprise at least one arithmetic and logic unit for processing a task and a processor for controlling the arithmetic and logic unit according to an electric current consumed by the arithmetic and logic unit at an operating frequency of the arithmetic and logic unit.

Methods may similarly comprise calculating a weighting value based on a measured value of electric current consumed and determining the operating frequency of the arithmetic and logic unit by applying the calculated weighting value in order to select an arithmetic and logic unit to process a task.

As described above according to various embodiments the electronic device can calculate a weighting value according to current consumption previously measured for each operating frequency and configure a load measurement function based on the calculated weighting value whereby the load measurement function can be modified according to the operating frequency. Therefore a rapid increase or decrease in current consumption according to a hardware characteristic of an arithmetic and logic unit can be reflected thereby preventing current from being unnecessarily consumed.

The following description is provided with reference to the accompanying drawings to assist in a comprehensive understanding of various embodiments of the present disclosure as defined by the claims and their equivalents. It includes various specific details to assist in that understanding but these are to be regarded as merely exemplary. Accordingly those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that various changes and modifications of the various embodiments described herein can be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the present disclosure. In addition descriptions of well known functions and constructions may be omitted for clarity and conciseness.

The terms and words used in the following description and claims are merely used by the inventor to enable a clear and consistent understanding of the present disclosure. Accordingly it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the following description of various embodiments of the present disclosure is provided for illustrative purposes only and not for the purpose of limiting the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

It is to be understood that the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a component surface includes reference to one or more of such surfaces.

As used herein the expression include or may include refers to the existence of a corresponding function operation or element and does not exclude one or more additional functions operations or elements. Also as used herein the terms include and or have should be construed to denote a certain feature number step operation element component or a combination thereof and should not be construed to exclude the existence or possible addition of one or more other features numbers steps operations elements components or combinations thereof.

The expression or includes any or all combinations of words enumerated together. For example the expression A or B may include A may include B or may include both A and B.

The expressions a first a second the first the second and the like may modify various elements but the corresponding elements are not limited by these expressions. For example the above expressions do not limit the sequence and or importance of the corresponding elements. The above expressions may be used merely for the purpose of distinguishing one element from the other elements. For example a first user device and a second user device indicate different user devices although both of them are user devices. For example a first element may be termed a second element and similarly a second element may be termed a first element without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

When an element is referred to as being coupled or connected to any other element it should be understood that not only the element may be directly coupled or connected to the other element but also a third element may be interposed therebetween. However when an element is referred to as being directly coupled or directly connected to any other element it should be understood that no element is interposed therebetween.

The terms used herein are used only to describe particular embodiments and are not intended to limit the present disclosure. As used herein the singular forms are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.

Unless defined otherwise all terms used herein including technical and scientific terms have the same meaning as those commonly understood by a person of ordinary skill in the art to which the present disclosure pertains. Such terms as those defined in a generally used dictionary are to be interpreted to have the meanings equal to the contextual meanings in the relevant field of the art and are not to be interpreted to have ideal or excessively formal meanings unless clearly defined in the present disclosure.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure a communication item may be understood as communication content created based on one or more members. For example the communication item may include at least one of a chatting room address book note communication and email. A communication item list may be understood as a list in which communication items are arranged. For example the communication item list may include at least one of a chatting room list address book list message list note list call list and email list.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure a movement object may be understood as one or more communication items which can be selected or moved from the communication list including communication items or movable information visually separated. The movement object may be displayed with at least one of a shape size color and effect different from those of the communication items so as to be distinguished from the communication items.

An electronic device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure may be a device including a communication function. For example the electronic device may include at least one of a smart phone a tablet Personal Computer PC a mobile phone a video phone an e book reader a desktop PC a laptop PC a netbook computer a PDA a Portable Multimedia Player PMP an MP3 player a mobile medical device a camera a wearable device for example a Head Mounted Device HMD such as electronic glasses electronic clothes an electronic bracelet an electronic necklace an electronic accessory an electronic tattoo and or a smart watch.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may be a smart home appliance with a communication function. The smart home appliances may include at least one of for example televisions digital video disk DVD players audio players refrigerators air conditioners cleaners ovens microwaves washing machines air purifiers set top boxes TV boxes e.g. HomeSync of Samsung Apple TV or Google TV game consoles electronic dictionaries electronic keys camcorders or electronic frames.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may include at least one of various types of medical devices for example Magnetic Resonance Angiography MRA Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI Computed Tomography CT a scanning machine ultrasonic wave device and the like a navigation device a Global Positioning System GPS receiver an Event Data Recorder EDR a Flight Data Recorder FDR a car infotainment device ship electronic equipment for example navigation equipment for a ship a gyro compass and the like avionics a security device and an industrial or home robot.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may include at least one of a part of furniture or a building structure having a communication function an electronic board an electronic signature receiving device a projector and various kinds of measuring instruments e.g. a water meter an electric meter a gas meter a radio wave meter and the like . The electronic device according to the present disclosure may be a combination of one or more of the aforementioned various devices. However an electronic device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure is not limited to the aforementioned devices.

An electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure is described below with reference to the accompanying drawings. The term user may refer to a person who uses an electronic device or a device for example an artificial intelligence electronic device that uses an electronic device.

Referring to the network architecture includes an electronic device an electronic device a server and a network . The electronic device includes a bus a processor a tangible non transitory computer readable medium or memory an input output interface a display a communication interface and an arithmetic and logic unit ALU control module .

The bus may comprise circuitry which connects the aforementioned components e.g. memory input output interface display communication interface and arithmetic and logic unit control module to each other to communicate signals e.g. control messages therebetween.

The processor receives a command from any of the aforementioned components e.g. memory input output interface display communication interface and arithmetic and logic unit control module through the bus interprets the command and executes operation or data processing according to the decrypted command. The memory may store the command or data received from the processor or other components e.g. input output interface display communication interface arithmetic and logic unit control module etc. or generated by the processor or other components. The memory may store program modules including kernel middleware Application Programming Interface API applications and the like. Each programing module may be implemented as software firmware hardware and or any combination thereof.

The kernel may control or manage the system resources e.g. bus processor and memory for use in executing the operation or function implemented with the middleware the API or the application . The kernel also may provide an interface allowing the middleware API or application to access the components of the electronic device to control or manage.

The middleware may work as a relay of data communicated between the API or application and the kernel . The middleware may execute control of the task requests from the applications by assigning priority for use of system resources e.g. bus processor and memory of the electronic device to at least one of the applications .

The API is the interface for the applications to control the function provided by the kernel or the middleware and may include at least one interface or function e.g. command for file control window control image control or text control.

The applications may include Short Messaging Service Multimedia Messaging Service SMS MMS applications email applications calendar applications alarm applications health care applications e.g. application of measuring quantity of motion or blood sugar level and environmental information applications e.g. atmospheric pressure humidity and temperature applications . Additionally or alternatively the application may be an application related to information exchange between the electronic device and other external electronic device e.g. electronic device . Examples of the information exchange application may include a notification relay application for relaying specific information to the external electronic device and a device management application for managing the external electronic device.

For example the notification relay application may be provided with a function of relaying the alarm information generated by the other applications e.g. SMS MMS applications email applications health care applications and environmental information applications of the electronic device to an external electronic device e.g. the electronic device . Additionally or alternatively the notification relay application may provide the user with the notification information received from an external electronic device e.g. the electronic device . The electronic device application may manage e.g. install delete and update the function of an external electronic device e.g. turn on off of the electronic device itself or a part of the electronic device or adjustment of the brightness or resolution of the display which communicates with the electronic device or the service e.g. communication or messaging service provided by the external electronic device or an application running on the external device.

The applications may include an application designated according to the property e.g. type of an external electronic device electronic device . If the external electronic device is the MP3 player the applications may include a music playback application. Similarly if the external electronic device is a mobile medical appliance the applications may include a health care application. The application may include at least one application designated to the electronic device or the applications received from the external electronic device e.g. server and electronic device .

The input output interface delivers the command or data input by the user through an input output device e.g. sensor keyboard and touchscreen to the processor memory communication interface and or arithmetic and logic unit control module by way of the bus . For example the input output interface may provide the processor with data entered by a user on a touchscreen. The input output interface may output the command or data which is received from the processor memory communication interfaced or the arithmetic and logic unit control module through the input output device e.g. speaker and display . For example the input out interface may output the voice data processed by the processor to the user through the speaker.

The communication interface may establish a communication connection of the electronic device with an external device e.g. the electronic device and the server . For example the communication interface connects to the network through a wireless or wired link for communication with the external device. Examples of the wireless communication technology may include Wi Fi Bluetooth BT Near Field Communication NFC GPS and cellular communication technology e.g. Long Term Evolution LTE LTE Advanced LTE A Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Wideband CDMA WCDMA Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS Wireless Broadband WiBro and General System for Mobile communications GSM . Examples of the wired communication technology may include Universal Serial Bus USB High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI Recommended Standard 232 RS 232 and Plain Old Telephone Service POTS .

The network may be a telecommunication network. The communication network may include at least one of a computer network the Internet the Internet of Things and a telephone network. The communication protocol between the electronic device and an external device e.g. transport layer protocol data link layer protocol and physical layer protocol may be supported by at least one of the applications API middleware kernel and communication interface .

The arithmetic and logic unit control module may process at least some pieces of information acquired from the other elements e.g. the processor the memory the input output interface and the communication interface and may provide the processed information to a user through various methods. For example using the processor or independently of the processor the arithmetic and logic unit control module may control at least some functions of the electronic device to allow the electronic device to interact with another electronic device e.g. the electronic device or the server .

The arithmetic and logic unit control module may calculate a weighting value based on a measured value of electric current consumed in response to an operating frequency and determine the operating frequency of an arithmetic and logic unit by applying the calculated weighting value. The arithmetic and logic unit control module may calculate a weighting value for measuring the usage rate of an arithmetic and logic unit based on a measured value of electric current consumed in response to an operating frequency measure the usage rate of the arithmetic and logic unit based on the calculated weighting value and determine the operating frequency of the arithmetic and logic unit according to the measured usage rate of the arithmetic and logic unit. In various embodiments an arithmetic and logic unit may be defined as the smallest unit of a device e.g. a CPU that can execute and process instructions in a processor and may be construed as the same meaning as a core. A processor may include at least one arithmetic and logic unit and may be defined as a unit that can be independently interfaced with other elements of a device.

Additional information on the arithmetic and logic unit control module will be provided through described below.

Referring to the arithmetic and logic unit control module may include a condition determining module a weighting value configuring module a measurement module and an operation determining module . The condition determining module may identify an operating frequency of an arithmetic and logic unit according to operation schedule information and a task execution environment. The condition determining module may determine a measured value of electric current consumed in response to the operating frequency or more particularly and in various embodiments an electric current consumption value based on electric current consumption information for each frequency e.g. a frequency current consumption mapping table .

Therefore according to various embodiments the electronic device may store a frequency current consumption mapping table. The frequency current consumption mapping table represents an electric current characteristic of the arithmetic and logic unit according to a change in the operating frequency of the arithmetic and logic unit. For example the frequency current consumption mapping table may comprise empirical data obtained by changing the operating frequency of the arithmetic and logic unit and then measuring an electric current value consumed according to the changed operating frequency. A plurality of frequency current consumption mapping tables may be configured according to types of arithmetic and logic units constituting the electronic device. For example in cases where the electronic device includes a lower performance core and a higher performance core a table representing electric current consumption characteristics according to frequencies during operation of the lower performance core and a table representing electric current consumption characteristics according to frequencies during operation of the higher performance core may be configured generated stored.

According to various embodiments the electronic device may further include a table configuring module not illustrated for configuring a frequency current consumption mapping table. The table configuring module may determine whether a frequency current consumption mapping table has been set as a default.

In cases where a frequency current consumption mapping table has not been set as a default the table configuring module may display notification information for generating a frequency current consumption mapping table on a display when the electronic device is operated e.g. booted . When a user input is detected for requesting generation of such a table the table configuring module may change the operating mode of the electronic device into a table configuration mode. The table configuring module may measure electric current consumption of a battery for at least one and or each operating frequency and generate a frequency current consumption mapping table based on the measured electric current consumption.

According to various embodiments in cases where a frequency current consumption mapping table has been set as a default the table configuring module when the electronic device is booted may measure the electric current consumption of the battery for each operating frequency and reflect the measured electric current consumption in the frequency current consumption mapping table to update the table.

According to various embodiments the table configuring module may measure electric current consumption of the battery in response to a user input event during operation of the electronic device and compare the measured electric current consumption with electric current consumption recorded in the frequency current consumption mapping table in relation to an operating frequency when the user input event is generated. While the electronic device is being operated in response to the user input event the table configuring module may measure electric current consumption and reflect the measurement result in the frequency current consumption mapping table to change the table.

According to various embodiments in cases where the operating frequency of the arithmetic and logic unit is changed the condition determining module may determine an electric current consumption value corresponding to the changed operating frequency through the frequency current consumption mapping table and the changed operating frequency and transfer the determined current consumption value to the weighting value configuring module . The weighting value configuring module may calculate a weighting value provided to a load measurement function e.g. an arithmetic and logic unit load measurement function an arithmetic and logic unit usage rate measurement function or a task load measurement function based on the current consumption value corresponding to the operating frequency. For example the weighting value configuring module may calculate the weighting value using an algorithm for determining a weighting value according to a change in the current consumption value.

More particularly according to various embodiments the weighting value configuring module may calculate a constant value that is proportional to an operating frequency and a weighting value reflecting a current consumption value for each operating frequency. When the operating frequency is changed the weighting value configuring module may change the weighting value according to a current consumption value corresponding to the changed operating frequency.

The measurement module may measure a load value or a usage rate of the arithmetic and logic unit using the calculated weighting value.

According to an embodiment the measurement module may determine whether a predefined measurement function has been implemented to measure a task or arithmetic and logic unit load or the usage rate of the arithmetic and logic unit. Note that a processor carries out the task s and processes that are running on a given electronic device. In cases where the predefined measurement function has been implemented the measurement module may make a modification to reflect a weighting value reflecting a current consumption value in the predefined measurement function. In cases where the predefined measurement function has not been implemented the measurement module may generate a measurement function based on the weighting value reflecting the current consumption value.

For example a measurement function for measuring the task load may be implemented by Equation 1 below. 0 1 2 2 3 3 . . . Equation 1

Here Ldenotes a load value and Wdenotes a weighting value for an operating frequency. P n 0 1 . . . are parameters representing an objective function configured to consider electric current consumption characteristics and the parameters may be differently determined by electric current characteristics of hardware. Y denotes measurement data used to determine an operating frequency. For example Y may be a usage rate of an arithmetic and logic unit e.g. a CPU however Y may also be a load value of each task. The measurement module may reflect a constant value proportional to an operating frequency and an electric current value consumed in response to the operating frequency in the measurement function.

According to various embodiments in cases where an operating frequency is changed the measurement module may measure a load value or a usage rate of the arithmetic and logic unit again based on a weighting value varied with the changed operating frequency.

The measurement module may measure the usage frequency of the arithmetic and logic unit or may monitor a currently processed task or a generated task to measure a load value of the task or the whole load value of the arithmetic and logic unit and may transfer the measurement result to the operation determining module .

According to a usage frequency of the arithmetic and logic unit the operation determining module may determine an operating frequency at which the arithmetic and logic unit should or must be used. The operation determining module may select an arithmetic and logic unit to process a task according to a load value and allocate the task to the selected arithmetic and logic unit.

According to various embodiments in cases where the usage rate of the arithmetic and logic unit is greater than a predetermined threshold value the operation determining module may change the operating frequency of the arithmetic and logic unit to an operating frequency higher than the set operating frequency. The operation determining module may monitor the usage rate of the arithmetic and logic unit and determine whether the usage rate of the arithmetic and logic unit varies. When the usage rate of the arithmetic and logic unit varies the operation determining module may change the operating frequency based on the varied usage rate. Thus in various embodiments the operating frequency of the arithmetic and logic unit can be adjusted based on a usage rate.

According to various embodiments in cases where the task load exceeds a predetermined threshold value the operation determining module may allocate the task exceeding the threshold value to a high performance big core e.g. a Cotex A15 to process the task and may allocate a task having a task load lower than the threshold value to a low power little core e.g. a Cortex A7 to process the task. The operation determining module may monitor the load of the task and determine whether the load value is varied. When the load value varies the operation determining module may migrate the task from the allocated arithmetic and logic unit to another arithmetic and logic unit based on the varied load value. Thus in various embodiments a variety of arithmetic and logic units can be selected based on a task load. Moreover as a task load increases higher performance arithmetic logic units having faster or higher operating frequencies can be selected in response to increasing task loads while lower performance arithmetic logic units having slower or lower operating frequencies can be selected in response to decreasing task loads.

Referring to arithmetic and logic units according to various embodiments may be operated under the condition of different operating frequencies. The arithmetic and logic units may process a task allocated thereto by an instruction. The task means a job executed in its own predetermined program area e.g. a code a stack etc. . For example the arithmetic and logic units may be of different types such as an X86 an X64 an ARM a GPU and a DSP. The different types of arithmetic and logic units may have different electric current consumptions for operation due to hardware characteristics and manufacturing materials thereof. In addition the electric current consumptions of the arithmetic and logic units at a particular frequency may increase or decrease rapidly.

In general when an operating frequency increases at a predetermined interval electric current consumption may be predicted to increase in proportion to the frequency increment. An electronic device when measuring task load or a usage rate of an arithmetic and logic unit may assign a weighting value by reflecting the electric current consumption proportional to the frequency increment. For example in the graph illustrated in a represents a substantial measurement result of electric current consumption depending upon a variation in an operating frequency. It may be identified that electric current consumption of an arithmetic and logic unit depending upon an operating frequency may be substantially different at particular frequencies according to a hardware characteristic of the arithmetic and logic unit as represented by a. 

The electronic device may measure electric current consumption for each operating frequency and store a frequency current consumption mapping table configured on the basis of the measurement result. When measuring the usage rate of the arithmetic and logic unit or a load value of a task e.g. execution of an application the electronic device may identify electric current consumption through the frequency current consumption mapping table and calculate a weighting value to which the electric current consumption is applied.

The electronic device may configure a load measurement function based on the weighting value calculated according to the operating frequency to achieve a characteristic represented by the line b of and may measure a load value based on the configured load measurement function. For example the electronic device may calculate a weighting value based on current consumption for 500 MHz and implement a function f having a current consumption characteristic of d to d for 500 MHz based on the calculated weighting value. The electronic device may implement functions f f f f and faccording to operating frequencies such that respective electric current consumption characteristics are reflected.

Referring to in step the electronic device may identify an operating frequency of an arithmetic and logic unit by confirming an operating condition of a task according to various pieces of predefined schedule information or conditions.

In step the electronic device may select an electric current consumption corresponding to the identified operating frequency using a stored frequency current consumption mapping table. For example in cases where a task is requested to be executed at an operating frequency of 1.1 MHz the electronic device may select a current consumption value recorded in the table in response to the operating frequency of 1.1 MHz.

In step the electronic device may calculate a weighting value based on the selected electric current consumption. The weighting value is a value to be assigned to a load measurement function and may be reflected in the load measurement function for an electric current consumption characteristic proportional to a change in the operating frequency.

In step the electronic device may determine whether a predefined load measurement function has been implemented. When it is determined that the predefined load measurement function has been implemented the electronic device may in step make a modification such that the calculated weighting value is applied to the load measurement function. When it is determined that the predefined load measurement function has not been implemented the electronic device may in step generate a load measurement function by applying the calculated weighting value.

According to various embodiments the electronic device may calculate a weighting value according to electric current consumption previously measured for each operating frequency and configure a load measurement function based on the calculated weighting value whereby the load measurement function may vary with the operating frequency.

In step the electronic device may measure a task load value using the load measurement function to which the weighting value depending upon the operating frequency has been applied. In step based on the calculated task load value the electronic device may select an arithmetic and logic unit to process a task. For example the electronic device may select a high performance arithmetic and logic unit in cases where the load value is larger than a threshold value and may select a lower performance arithmetic and logic unit in cases where the load value is smaller than the threshold value. The high performance arithmetic and logic unit may operate at a frequency that is greater than the lower performance arithmetic and logic unit. Thus an arithmetic and logic unit may be selected based upon a load value.

In step the electronic device may allocate a task to the selected arithmetic and logic unit and to allow the selected unit to process the task.

Referring to in step the electronic device may identify an operating frequency of an arithmetic and logic unit.

In step the electronic device may identify electric current consumption corresponding to the identified operating frequency using a frequency current consumption mapping table. In step the electronic device may calculate a weighting value based on the selected electric current consumption.

In step the electronic device may determine whether a predefined usage rate measurement function of the arithmetic and logic unit has been implemented. When it is determined that the predefined usage rate measurement function has been implemented the electronic device may in step make a modification such that the calculated weighting value is applied to the predefined usage rate measurement function of the arithmetic and logic unit. When it is determined that the predefined usage rate measurement function e.g. load measurement function has not been implemented the electronic device may in step generate a usage rate measurement function by applying the calculated weighting value.

In step the electronic device may measure a usage rate of the arithmetic and logic unit using the usage rate measurement function to which the weighting value depending upon the operating frequency has been applied. In step the electronic device may determine an operating frequency of the arithmetic and logic unit according to the measured usage rate of the arithmetic and logic unit. In step the electronic device may determine whether to change the operating frequency. When it is determined that the operating frequency has to be changed the electronic device may in step change the operating frequency into an operating frequency determined according to the usage rate of the arithmetic and logic unit. When the operating frequency does not have to be changed the electronic device may return to step .

Referring to in step the electronic device may execute a task by allocating the task to a first arithmetic and logic unit based on a load value. In step the electronic device may monitor the first arithmetic and logic unit to determine whether an operating frequency is changed for the execution of the task.

When the operating frequency changes the electronic device may in step identify the changed operating frequency and identify electric current consumption corresponding to the changed operating frequency through a frequency current consumption mapping table.

In step the electronic device may recalculate a weighting value based on the selected electric current consumption. In step the electronic device may modify or change a load measurement function based on the recalculated weighting value. The electronic device may measure a load value using the modified or changed load measurement function.

In step based on the task load measurement result the electronic device may determine whether to move the task to a different arithmetic and logic unit. Thus in various embodiments as a usage rate of an arithmetic and logic unit changes the operating frequency of the arithmetic and logic unit may be adjusted up or down. Similarly in various embodiments as the task load of an arithmetic logic unit changes one or more tasks may be moved or assigned to one or more different arithmetic logic units. In cases where the task has to be moved to a different arithmetic and logic unit the electronic device may migrate the task executed in the first arithmetic and logic unit to a second arithmetic and logic unit in step . When it is determined based on the task load measurement result that the task does not have to be moved to a different arithmetic and logic unit the electronic device may return to step to monitor whether the operating frequency is changed.

Referring to in step an electronic device may be operated in an operating mode. For example the operating mode may be a booting state of the electronic device or a state in which the electronic device is being driven by power supplied thereto.

In step the electronic device may detect an input for requesting generation of a frequency current consumption mapping table.

According to various embodiments the electronic device may determine whether a frequency current consumption mapping table has been set as a default. For example when the electronic device is booted the electronic device may identify whether a frequency current consumption mapping table has been stored therein. When it is determined that a frequency current consumption table has not been stored in the electronic device the electronic device may display notification information for identifying generation of a table on a display. When detecting a user input for requesting generation of a table the electronic device may enter a table generation mode from the operating mode.

According to various embodiments in cases where a frequency current consumption mapping table has been set as a default the electronic device may determine whether to update the frequency current consumption mapping table and may measure an electric current value consumed therein to update the frequency current consumption mapping table.

In cases where a request for generating a frequency current consumption mapping table is detected the electronic device may enter a table configuration mode in step and may measure electric current consumption of a battery for each of a plurality of operating frequencies in step . The electronic device may record or store to a memory current electric consumption measured in response to each operating frequency to generate a frequency current consumption mapping table in step .

Referring to in step an electronic device may operate in a standby mode e.g. operation mode . For example the standby mode e.g. operation mode may be a state in which the electronic device stands ready for receiving a user input while being driven. In step the electronic device may detect a user input event. For example the electronic device may detect a screen transition request input such as a flick or an input for requesting execution of a particular application in a particular application mode.

In step the electronic device may be driven in response to the user input event and may measure a changed value of electric current consumed in a battery. In step the electronic device may change a frequency current consumption mapping table by reflecting the changed value of the electric current in the operating frequency when the user input event is generated. For example assuming that a current consumption value corresponding to a particular operating frequency is a an electric current value consumed when the electronic device is driven in response to the user input event may be . When driven in response to the user input event the electronic device may measure substantial electric current consumption and may make a change such that the measured electric current consumption is reflected in the frequency current consumption mapping table.

Referring to the electronic device may include an processor a communication module a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card a memory a sensor module an input device a display an interface an audio module a camera module a power management module a battery an indicator and a motor .

The processor may include an Application Processor AP and a Communication Processor CP and may operate an Operating System OS and or application programs to control a plurality of hardware and or software components connected to the AP and perform data processing and operations on multimedia data. For example the AP may be implemented in the form of System on Chip SoC . According to an embodiment the AP may include a Graphic Processing Unit GPU not shown .

The communication module e.g. communication interface may perform data communication with other electronic devices e.g. electronic device and server through a network. According to an embodiment the communication module may include a cellular module a Wi Fi module a BT module a GPS module an NFC module and a Radio Frequency RF module .

The cellular module is responsible for voice and video communication text messaging and Internet access services through a communication network e.g. LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS WiBro and GSM networks . The cellular module may perform identification and authentication of electronic devices in the communication network using the SIM card . The cellular module may perform at least one of the functions of the AP . For example the cellular module may perform at least a part of the multimedia control function.

The cellular module may be implemented in the form of SOC. Although the cellular module the memory and the power management module are depicted as independent components separated from the AP the present disclosure is not limited thereto but may be embodied in a way that the AP includes at least one of the components e.g. cellular module .

Each of the AP and the cellular module may load a command or data received from at least one of the components on a non volatile or volatile memory and process the command or data. The AP or the cellular module may store the data received from other components or generated by at least one of other components in the non volatile memory.

Each of the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may include a processor for processing the data it transmits receives. Although the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module are depicted as independent blocks at least two of them e.g. communication processor corresponding to the cellular module and Wi Fi processor corresponding to the Wi Fi module may be integrated in the form of SoC.

The RF module is responsible for data communication e.g. transmitting receiving RF signals. Although not depicted the RF module may include a transceiver a Power Amp Module PAM a frequency filter and a Low Noise Amplifier LNA . The RF module also may include the elements for transmitting receiving electric wave in free space e.g. conductor or conductive wire. Although is directed to the case where the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module are sharing the RF module the present disclosure is not limited thereto but may be embodied in a way that at least one of the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module transmits receives RF signals an independent RF module.

The SIM card may be designed so as to be inserted into a slot formed at a predetermined position of the electronic device. The SIM card may store unique identity information e.g. Integrated Circuit Card Identifier ICCID or subscriber information e.g. International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI .

The memory e.g. memory may include at least one of the internal memory and an external memory . The internal memory may include at least one of a volatile memory e.g. Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM Static RAM SRAM Synchronous Dynamic RAM SDRAM or a non volatile memory e.g. One Time Programmable Read Only Memory OTPROM Programmable ROM PROM Erasable and Programmable ROM EPROM Electrically Erasable and Programmable ROM EEPROM mask ROM flash ROM NAND flash memory and NOR flash memory .

The internal memory may be a Solid State Drive SSD . The external memory may be a flash drive such as Compact Flash CF Secure Digital SD micro SD Mini SD extreme Digital xD and Memory Stick. The external memory may be functionally connected to the electronic device through various interfaces. The electronic device may include a storage device or storage medium such as hard drive.

The sensor module may measure physical quantity or check the operation status of the electronic device and convert the measured or checked information to an electric signal. The sensor module may include at least one of gesture sensor A Gyro sensor B atmospheric pressure sensor C magnetic sensor D acceleration sensor E grip sensor F proximity sensor G color sensor H e.g. Red Green Blue RGB sensor bio sensor I temperature humidity sensor J illuminance sensor K and Ultra Violet UV sensor M. Additionally or alternatively the sensor module may include E nose sensor not shown Electromyography EMG sensor not shown Electroencephalogram EEG sensor not shown Electrocardiogram ECG sensor not shown Infrared IR sensor not shown iris sensor not shown and fingerprint sensor not shown . The sensor module may further include a control circuit for controlling at least one of the sensors included therein.

The input device may include a touch panel a digital pen sensor keys and an ultrasonic input device . The touch panel may be one of capacitive resistive infrared microwave type touch panel. The touch panel may include a control circuit. In the case of the capacitive type touch panel it is possible to detect physical contact or approximation. The touch panel may further include a tactile layer. In this case the touch panel may provide the user with haptic reaction.

The digital pen sensor may be implemented with a sheet with the same or similar way as touch input of the user or a separate recognition sheet. The keys may include physical buttons optical key and keypad. The ultrasonic input device is a device capable of checking data by detecting sound wave through a microphone and may be implemented for wireless recognition. According to an embodiment the electronic device may receive the user input made by means of an external device e.g. computer or server connected through the communication module .

The display e.g. display module may include a panel a hologram device and a projector not shown . The panel may be a Liquid Crystal Display LCD panel or an Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diodes AMOLED panel. The panel may be implemented so as to be flexible transparent and or wearable. The panel may be implemented as a module integrated with the touch panel . The hologram device may present 3 dimensional image in the air using interference of light. The projector may project an image to a screen. The screen may be placed inside or outside the electronic device. According to an embodiment the display may include a control circuit for controlling the panel the hologram device and the projector.

The interface may include a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI a USB an optical interface and a Dsubminiature D sub . The interface may include the communication interface as shown in . Additionally or alternatively the interface may include a Mobile High definition Link MHL interface a SD MMC card interface and infrared Data Association irDA standard interface.

The audio module may convert sound to electric signal and vice versa. At least a part of the audio module may be included in the input output interface as shown in . The audio module may process the audio information input or output through the speaker the receiver the earphone and the microphone .

The camera module is a device capable of taking still and motion pictures and may include at least one image sensor e.g. front and rear sensors a lens not shown and Image Signal Processor ISP not shown and a flash e.g. LED or xenon lamp not shown .

The power management module may manage the power of the electronic device . Although not shown the power management module may include a Power Management Integrated Circuit PMIC a charger Integrated Circuit IC a battery and a battery or fuel gauge.

The PMIC may be integrated into an integrated circuit or SoC semiconductor. The charging may be classified into wireless charging and wired charge. The charger IC may charge the battery and protect the charger against overvoltage or overcurrent. According to an embodiment the charger IC may include at least one of wired charger and wireless charger ICs. Examples of the wireless charging technology includes resonance wireless charging and electromagnetic wave wireless charging and there is a need of extra circuit for wireless charging such as coil loop resonance circuit and diode.

The battery gauge may measure the residual power of the battery charging voltage current and temperature. The battery may store or generate power and supply the stored or generated power to the electronic device . The battery may include a rechargeable battery or a solar battery.

The indicator may display operation status of the electronic device or a part of the electronic device booting status messaging status and charging status. The motor may converts the electronic signal to mechanical vibration. Although not shown the electronic device may include a processing unit e.g. GPU for supporting mobile TV. The processing unit for supporting the mobile TV may be able to processing the media data abiding by the broadcast standards such Digital Multimedia Broadcasting DMB Digital Video Broadcasting DVB and media flow.

As described above the text display method and apparatus of an electronic device of the present disclosure is advantageous in terms of reducing a number of page scrolls by discerning the paragraphs included in a text document and folding the paragraphs to present parts of the respective paragraphs.

Also the text display method and apparatus of an electronic device of the present disclosure is advantageous in terms of improving the legibility of the text in such a way of enlarging when a folded paragraph is stretched the font size of the paragraph or highlighting the paragraph.

The above enumerated components of the electronic device of the present disclosure may be implemented into one or more parts and the names of the corresponding components may be changed depending on the kind of the electronic device. The electronic device of the present disclosure may include at least one of the aforementioned components with omission or addition of some components. The components of the electronic device of the present disclosure may be combined selectively into an entity to perform the functions of the components equally as before the combination.

The term module according to the embodiments of the disclosure means but is not limited to a unit of one of software hardware and firmware or any combination thereof. The term module may be used interchangeably with the terms unit logic logical block component or circuit. The term module may denote a smallest unit of component or a part thereof. The term module may be the smallest unit of performing at least one function or a part thereof. A module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a module may include at least one of Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC chip Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs and Programmable Logic Device known or to be developed for certain operations.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the devices e.g. modules or their functions or methods may be implemented by computer program instructions stored in a computer readable storage medium. In the case that the instructions are executed by at least one processor e.g. processor the at least one processor may execute the functions corresponding to the instructions. The computer readable storage medium may be the memory . At least a part of the programing module may be implemented e.g. executed by the processor . At least part of the programing module may include modules programs routines sets of instructions and processes for executing the at least one function.

The computer readable storage medium includes magnetic media such as a floppy disk and a magnetic tape optical media including a Compact Disc CD ROM and a Digital Video Disc DVD ROM a magneto optical media such as a floptical disk and the hardware device designed for storing and executing program commands such as ROM RAM and flash memory. The programs commands include the language code executable by computers using the interpreter as well as the machine language codes created by a compiler. The aforementioned hardware device can be implemented with one or more software modules for executing the operations of the various embodiments of the present disclosure.

While the present disclosure has been shown and described with reference to various embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

A module or a programming module according to the present invention may include at least one of the described component elements a few of the component elements may be omitted or additional component elements may be included. Operations executed by a module a programming module or other component elements according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be executed sequentially in parallel repeatedly or in a heuristic manner. Further some operations may be executed in a different order some of the operations may be omitted or other operations may be added. According to various embodiments in a storage medium having instructions stored therein the instructions are set such that at least one processor performs at least one operation when the instructions are executed by the at least one processor and in a method of controlling an operation of an arithmetic and logic unit the at least one operations may include determining an operating frequency of a task calculating a weighting value based on a measured value of current consumed in response to the operating frequency measuring a load value by applying the calculated weighting value and selecting an arithmetic and logic unit to process the task according to the load value. Embodiments of the present disclosure provided in the present specifications and drawings are merely certain examples to readily describe the technology associated with embodiments of the present disclosure and to help understanding of the embodiments of the present disclosure but may not limit the scope of the embodiments of the present disclosure. Therefore in addition to the embodiments disclosed herein the scope of the various embodiments of the present disclosure should be construed to include all modifications or modified forms drawn based on the technical idea of the various embodiments of the present disclosure.

The above described embodiments of the present disclosure can be implemented in hardware firmware or via the execution of software or computer code that can be stored in a recording medium such as a CD ROM a Digital Versatile Disc DVD a magnetic tape a RAM a floppy disk a hard disk or a magneto optical disk or computer code downloaded over a network originally stored on a remote recording medium or a non transitory machine readable medium and to be stored on a local recording medium so that the methods described herein can be rendered via such software that is stored on the recording medium using a general purpose computer or a special processor or in programmable or dedicated hardware such as an ASIC or FPGA. As would be understood in the art the computer the processor microprocessor controller or the programmable hardware include memory components e.g. RAM ROM Flash etc. that may store or receive software or computer code that when accessed and executed by the computer processor or hardware implement the processing methods described herein. In addition it would be recognized that when a general purpose computer accesses code for implementing the processing shown herein the execution of the code transforms the general purpose computer into a special purpose computer for executing the processing shown herein. Any of the functions and steps provided in the Figures may be implemented in hardware or a combination hardware configured with machine executable code and may be performed in whole or in part within the programmed instructions of a computer. No claim element herein is to be construed under the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 sixth paragraph unless the element is expressly recited using the phrase means for .

The terms unit or module referred to herein is to be understood as comprising hardware such as a processor or microprocessor configured for a certain desired functionality or a non transitory medium comprising machine executable code in accordance with statutory subject matter under 35 U.S.C. 101 and does not constitute software per se.

In addition an artisan understands and appreciates that a processor or microprocessor constitute hardware in the claimed invention. Under the broadest reasonable interpretation the appended claims constitute statutory subject matter in compliance with 35 U.S.C. 101.

