---

title: Cytotoxic benzodiazepine derivatives
abstract: The invention relates to novel benzodiazepine derivatives with antiproliferative activity and more specifically to novel benzodiazepine compounds of formula (I)-(VII). The invention also provides conjugates of the benzodiazepine compounds linked to a cell-binding agent. The invention further provides compositions and methods useful for inhibiting abnormal cell growth or treating a proliferative disorder in a mammal using the compounds or conjugates of the invention.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09617270&OS=09617270&RS=09617270
owner: IMMUNOGEN, INC.
number: 09617270
owner_city: Waltham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150213
---
This application is a continuation application of International Patent Application No. PCT US2013 055657 filed on Aug. 20 2013 which claims the benefit of the filing date of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 692 089 filed on Aug. 22 2012. All of the above referenced applications are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The present invention relates to novel cytotoxic compounds and cytotoxic conjugates comprising these cytotoxic compounds and cell binding agents. More specifically this invention relates to novel benzodiazepine compounds derivatives thereof intermediates thereof conjugates thereof and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof which are useful as medicaments in particular as anti proliferative agents.

Benzodiazepine derivatives are useful compounds for treating various disorders and include medicaments such as antiepileptics imidazo 2 1 b 1 3 5 benzothiadiazepines U.S. Pat. No. 4 444 688 U.S. Pat. No. 4 062 852 antibacterials pyrimido 1 2 c 1 3 5 benzothiadiazepines GB 1476684 diuretics and hypotensives pyrrolo 1 2 b 1 2 5 benzothiadiazepine 5 5 dioxide U.S. Pat. No. 3 506 646 hypolipidemics WO 03091232 anti depressants U.S. Pat. No. 3 453 266 osteoporosis JP 2138272 .

Recently it has been shown in animal tumor models that benzodiazepine derivatives such as pyrrolobenzodiazepines PBDs act as anti tumor agents N 2 imidazolyl alkyl substituted 1 2 5 benzothiadiazepine 1 1 dioxide U.S. Pat. No. 6 156 746 benzo pyrido or dipyrido thiadiazepine WO 2004 069843 pyrrolo 1 2 b 1 2 5 benzothiadiazepines and pyrrolo 1 2 b 1 2 5 benzodiazepine derivatives WO 2007 015280 tomaymycin derivatives e.g. pyrrolo 1 4 benzodiazepines such as those described in WO 2000 12508 WO 2005 085260 WO 2007 085930 and EP 2019104. Benzodiazepines are also known to affect cell growth and differentiation Kamal A. et al. 2008 Aug. 15 16 16 7804 7810 and references cited therein Kumar R 2003 June 3 4 323 339 and references cited therein Bednarski J J et al. 2004 Sutter A. P et al. 2002 Blatt N B et al. 2002 Kamal A. et al. 2002 2 215 254 Wang J J. 2206 49 1442 1449 Alley M. C. et al. 2004 64 6700 6706 Pepper C. 2004 74 6750 6755 Thurston D. E. and Bose D. S. 1994 94 433 465 and Tozuka Z. et al. 1983 36 1699 1708. General structure of PBDs is described in US Publication Number 20070072846. The PBDs differ in the number type and position of substituents in both their aromatic A rings and pyrrolo C rings and in the degree of saturation of the C ring. Their ability to form an adduct in the minor groove and crosslink DNA enables them to interfere with DNA processing hence their potential for use as antiproliferative agents.

The first pyrrolobenzodiazepine to enter the clinic SJG 136 NSC 694501 is a potent cytotoxic agent that causes DNA inter strand crosslinks S. G Gregson et al. 2001 44 737 748 M. C. Alley et al. 2004 64 6700 6706 J. A. Hartley et al. 2004 64 6693 6699 C. Martin et al. 2005 44 4135 4147 S. Arnould et al. 20065 1602 1509 . Results from a Phase I clinical evaluation of SJG 136 revealed that this drug was toxic at extremely low doses maximum tolerated dose of 45 g m and several adverse effects were noted including vascular leak syndrome peripheral edema liver toxicity and fatigue. DNA damage was noted at all doses in circulating lymphocytes D. Hochhauser et al. 2009 15 2140 2147 . Thus there exists a need for improved benzodiazepine derivatives that are less toxic and still therapeutically active for treating a variety of proliferative disease states such as cancer.

Cytotoxic benzodiazepine dimers disclosed in the art possess two imine functionalities in their free form or reversibly protected form such as a hydrate alkoxylate or sulfonate. The presence of these two imine functionalities results in crosslinking of DNA S. G. Gregson et al. 2001 44 737 748 . The present invention is partly based on the unexpected finding that cell binding agent conjugates of new cytotoxic benzodiazepine derivatives such as indolinobenzodiazapene dimers that has one or no imine functionality and thus incapable of crosslinking DNA display a much higher therapeutic index ratio of maximum tolerated dose to minimum effective dose in vivo compared to benzodiazepine derivatives that can crosslink DNA that are previously disclosed in the art.

One aspect of this invention features a cytotoxic compound represented by CM Q or CM Q . CM and CM are each a cytotoxic moiety and Q and Q are each a reactive group that can form a covalent bond with a cell binding agent CBA .

Q is a reactive group that can form a covalent bond with a cell binding agent CBA . In one embodiment Q is selected from the group consisting of a maleimide a haloacetamido SH SSR CHSH CH Me SH C Me SH NHR ArNHR CHNHR NRNH COOR and COE wherein COE represents a reactive ester selected from but not limited to the group consisting of N hydroxysuccinimide ester N hydroxy sulfosuccinimide ester nitrophenyl ester dinitrophenyl ester sulfo tetrafluorophenyl ester and pentafluorophenyl ester wherein Ris H or a substituted or unsubstituted linear or branched alkyl having 1 to 4 carbon atoms Ris selected from the group consisting of phenyl nitrophenyl dinitrophenyl carboxynitrophenyl pyridyl and nitropyridyl Ar is an aryl or a heteroaryl and alternatively Q is C O OH C O OMe or

the double line between N and C represents a single bond or a double bond provided that when the double line is a double bond X is absent and Y is H a linear C1 C4 alkyl or a branched C1 C4 alkyl and when the double line is a single bond X is H or an amine protecting moiety and Y is selected from the group consisting of H OR OCOR OCOOR OCONR R NR R NR COR NR NR R an optionally substituted 5 or 6 membered nitrogen containing heterocycle a guanidinum represented by NR C NH NR R an amino acid or a peptide represented by NRCOP wherein P is an amino acid or a polypeptide containing between 2 to 20 amino acid units SR SOR SOH SOH OSOH halogen cyano an azido a sulfite a metabisulfite a mono di tri and tetra thiophosphate a thio phosphate ester RS RSO RSO RSO thiosulfate dithionite a phosphorodithioate a hydroxamic acid and formaldehyde sulfoxylate wherein Ris a linear C1 C10 alkyl or a branched C1 C10 alkyl and is substituted with at least one substituent selected from the group consisting of N R COH SOH and POH Rcan be further optionally substituted with an alkyl described herein Ris a linear C1 C6 alkyl or a branched C1 C6 alkyl R is a linear C1 C10 alkyl a branched C1 C10 alkyl a cyclic C3 C10 alkyl a linear C2 C10 alkenyl a branched C2 C10 alkenyl a cyclic C3 C10 alkenyl a linear C2 C10 alkynyl a branched C2 C10 alkynyl a cyclic C3 C10 alkynyl aryl heterocyclyl or heteroaryl 

R for each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of H an optionally substituted linear C1 C10 alkyl an optionally substituted branched C1 C10 alkyl an optionally substituted cyclic C3 C10 alkyl an optionally substituted linear C2 C10 alkenyl an optionally substituted branched C2 C10 alkenyl an optionally substituted cyclic C3 C10 alkenyl an optionally substituted linear C2 C10 alkynyl an optionally substituted branched C2 C10 alkynyl an optionally substituted cyclic C3 C10 alkynyl a polyethylene glycol unit CHCHO R an optionally substituted aryl having 6 to 18 carbon atoms an optionally substituted 5 to 18 membered heteroaryl ring containing one or more heteroatoms independently selected from the group consisting of nitrogen oxygen and sulfur and an optionally substituted 3 to 18 membered heterocyclic ring containing 1 to 6 heteroatoms independently selected from the group consisting of O S N and P 

R and R are each independently selected from the group consisting of H OH OR NHR NR COR an optionally substituted linear C1 C10 alkyl an optionally substituted branched C1 C10 alkyl an optionally substituted cyclic C3 C10 alkyl an optionally substituted linear C2 C10 alkenyl an optionally substituted branched C2 C10 alkenyl an optionally substituted cyclic C3 C10 alkenyl an optionally substituted linear C2 C10 alkynyl an optionally substituted branched C2 C10 alkynyl an optionally substituted cyclic C3 C10 alkynyl a polyethylene glycol unit CHCHO R and an optionally substituted 3 to 18 membered heterocyclic ring having 1 to 6 heteroatoms independently selected from the group consisting of O S N and P 

Ris H an optionally substituted linear C1 C4 alkyl or an optionally substituted branched C1 C4 alkyl 

X for each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of H an amine protecting group an optionally substituted linear C1 C10 alkyl an optionally substituted branched C1 C10 alkyl an optionally substituted cyclic C3 C10 alkyl an optionally substituted linear C2 C10 alkenyl an optionally substituted branched C2 C10 alkenyl an optionally substituted cyclic C3 C10 alkenyl an optionally substituted linear C2 C10 alkynyl an optionally substituted branched C2 C10 alkynyl an optionally substituted cyclic C3 C10 alkynyl a polyethylene glycol unit CHCHO R an optionally substituted aryl having 6 to 18 carbon atoms an optionally substituted 5 to 18 membered heteroaryl ring containing one or more heteroatoms independently selected from the group consisting of nitrogen oxygen and sulfur and an optionally substituted 3 to 18 membered heterocyclic ring containing 1 to 6 heteroatoms independently selected from the group consisting of O S N and P 

Y for each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of H an oxo group an optionally substituted linear C1 C10 alkyl an optionally substituted branched C1 C10 alkyl an optionally substituted cyclic C3 C10 alkyl an optionally substituted linear C2 C10 alkenyl an optionally substituted branched C2 C10 alkenyl an optionally substituted cyclic C3 C10 alkenyl an optionally substituted linear C2 C10 alkynyl an optionally substituted branched C2 C10 alkynyl an optionally substituted cyclic C3 C10 alkynyl an optionally substituted 6 to 18 membered aryl an optionally substituted 5 to 18 membered heteroaryl ring containing one or more heteroatoms independently selected from the group consisting of nitrogen oxygen and sulfur and an optionally substituted 3 to 18 membered heterocyclic ring having 1 to 6 heteroatoms 

R for each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of H an optionally substituted linear C1 C10 alkyl an optionally substituted branched C1 C10 alkyl an optionally substituted cyclic C3 C10 alkyl an optionally substituted linear C2 C10 alkenyl an optionally substituted branched C2 C10 alkenyl an optionally substituted cyclic C3 C10 alkenyl an optionally substituted linear C2 C10 alkynyl an optionally substituted branched C2 C10 alkynyl an optionally substituted cyclic C3 C10 alkynyl a polyethylene glycol unit OCHCH R halogen guanidinium NH C NH NH OR NR R NO NCO NR COR SR a sulfoxide represented by SOR a sulfone represented by SOR a sulfonate SOH a sulfate OSOH a sulfonamide represented by SONR R cyano an azido COR OCOR and OCONR R 

Z and Z are each independently selected from the group consisting of CH CH CRR CH CH NR CH CH O CH and CH S CH 

Rand Rare the same or different and are each independently selected from the group consisting of H OH SH COOH NHR a polyethylene glycol unit OCHCH an amino acid a peptide unit bearing 2 to 6 amino acids an optionally substituted linear C1 C10 alkyl an optionally substituted branched C1 C10 alkyl and an optionally substituted cyclic C3 C10 alkyl 

Ris independently selected from the group consisting of H an optionally substituted linear C1 C10 alkyl an optionally substituted branched C1 C10 alkyl and an optionally substituted cyclic C3 C10 alkyl and a polyethylene glycol unit OCHCH 

For Formulas V VII Q is a reactive group that can form a covalent bond with a cell binding agent CBA . Alternatively Q is selected from the group consisting of a maleimide a haloacetamido SH SSR CHSH CH Me SH C Me SH NHR ArNHR CHNHR NRNH COOR and COE wherein COE represents a reactive ester selected from but not limited to the group consisting of N hydroxysuccinimide ester N hydroxy sulfosuccinimide ester nitrophenyl ester dinitrophenyl ester sulfo tetrafluorophenyl ester and pentafluorophenyl ester wherein Ris H or a substituted or unsubstituted linear or branched alkyl having 1 to 4 carbon atoms and Ris selected from the group consisting of phenyl nitrophenyl dinitrophenyl carboxynitrophenyl pyridyl and nitropyridyl Ar is an aryl or a heteroaryl and P is an amino acid or a peptide comprising 2 to 20 amino acids. In yet another alternative Q is C O OH C O OMe or

In another aspect this invention features a conjugate comprising a cytotoxic moiety i.e. CM or CM represented by any one of formulas I VII and a CBA. Specifically the conjugate is represented by any one of the following formulas 

In a conjugate of Formula IX or X the CBA binds to specific target cells such as tumor cells virus infected cells microorganism infected cells parasite infected cells autoimmune cells activated cells myeloid cells activated T cells B cells melanocytes or cells expressing CD4 CD6 CD19 CD20 CD22 CD30 CD33 CD37 CD38 CD40 CD44 CD56 EpCAM CanAg CALLA Her 2 antigens Her 3 antigens insulin growth factor receptor epidermal growth factor receptor and or folate receptor.

Examples of the CBA may include an antibody a single chain antibody an antibody fragment a polyclonal antibody a monoclonal antibody a single chain monoclonal antibody a monoclonal antibody fragment a chimeric antibody a chimeric antibody fragment a domain antibody a domain antibody fragment a lymphokine a hormone a vitamin a growth factor a colony stimulating factor or a nutrient transport molecule. The antibody can be a monoclonal antibody or a humanized antibody. Illustrative examples of the antibody include huMy9 6 huFOLR1 and chB38.1.

In one embodiment CM in the conjugate represented by Formula IX is not the following cytotoxic moiety 

In still another aspect the invention features a cytotoxic compound represented by the following formula 

Also within the scope of this invention is a composition e.g. a pharmaceutical composition comprising a benzodiazepine compound having CM or CM represented by any one of Formulas I VII a benzodiazepine compound represented by Formula XII a conjugate represented by Formula IX or X or a pharmaceutical acceptable salt thereof except for the conjugate having CM represented by Formula XI and or a salt thereof. The composition may also include a carrier e.g. a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier . The composition can further include a second therapeutic agent.

The present invention also includes a method of inhibiting abnormal cell growth or treating a proliferative disorder an autoimmune disorder graft versus host disease transplant rejection immune deficiency inflammatory diseases destructive bone disorder infectious disease viral disease fibrotic disease neurodegenerative disorder or kidney disease in a mammal e.g. human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a benzodiazepine compound represented by any one of Formulas I VII and XII a conjugate represented by Formula IX or X except for the conjugate having CM represented by Formula XI a solvate thereof a hydrate thereof or a pharmaceutical acceptable salt thereof.

In a specific embodiment the method described above further comprises administering to said mammal sequentially or consecutively a second therapeutic agent.

Reference will now be made in detail to certain embodiments of the invention examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying structures and formulas. While the invention will be described in conjunction with the enumerated embodiments it will be understood that they are not intended to limit the invention to those embodiments. On the contrary the invention is intended to cover all alternatives modifications and equivalents which may be included within the scope of the present invention as defined by the claims. One skilled in the art will recognize many methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein which could be used in the practice of the present invention.

It should be understood that any of the embodiments described herein including those described under different aspects of the invention e.g. compounds conjugates compositions methods of making and using and different parts of the specification including embodiments described only in the Examples can be combined with one or more other embodiments of the invention unless explicitly disclaimed or improper. Combination of embodiments are not limited to those specific combinations claimed via the multiple dependent claims.

 Linear or branched alkyl as used herein refers to a saturated linear or branched chain monovalent hydrocarbon radical of one to twenty carbon atoms. Examples of alkyl include but are not limited to methyl ethyl 1 propyl 2 propyl 1 butyl 2 methyl 1 propyl CHCH CH 2 butyl 2 methyl 2 propyl 1 pentyl 2 pentyl 3 pentyl 2 methyl 2 butyl 3 methyl 2 butyl 3 methyl 1 butyl 2 methyl 1 butyl 1 hexyl 2 hexyl 3 hexyl 2 methyl 2 pentyl 3 methyl 2 pentyl 4 methyl 2 pentyl 3 methyl 3 pentyl 2 methyl 3 pentyl 2 3 dimethyl 2 butyl 3 3 dimethyl 2 butyl 1 heptyl 1 octyl and the like. Preferably the alkyl has one to ten carbon atoms. More preferably the alkyl has one to four carbon atoms.

 Linear or branched alkenyl refers to linear or branched chain monovalent hydrocarbon radical of two to twenty carbon atoms with at least one site of unsaturation i.e. a carbon carbon double bond wherein the alkenyl radical includes radicals having cis and trans orientations or alternatively E and Z orientations. Examples include but are not limited to ethylenyl or vinyl CH CH allyl CHCH CH and the like. Preferably the alkenyl has two to ten carbon atoms. More preferably the alkyl has two to four carbon atoms.

 Linear or branched alkynyl refers to a linear or branched monovalent hydrocarbon radical of two to twenty carbon atoms with at least one site of unsaturation i.e. a carbon carbon triple bond. Examples include but are not limited to ethynyl propynyl 1 butynyl 2 butynyl 1 pentynyl 2 pentynyl 3 pentynyl hexynyl and the like. Preferably the alkynyl has two to ten carbon atoms. More preferably the alkynyl has two to four carbon atoms.

The terms cyclic alkyl and cycloalkyl can be used interchangeably. They refer to a monovalent saturated carbocyclic ring radical. Preferably the cyclic alkyl is 3 to 7 membered monocyclic ring radical. More preferably the cyclic alkyl is cyclohexyl.

The term carbocycle carbocyclyl and carbocyclic ring refer to a monovalent non aromatic saturated or partially unsaturated ring having 3 to 12 carbon atoms as a monocyclic ring or 7 to 12 carbon atoms as a bicyclic ring. Bicyclic carbocycles having 7 to 12 atoms can be arranged for example as a bicyclo 4 5 5 5 5 6 or 6 6 system and bicyclic carbocycles having 9 or 10 ring atoms can be arranged as a bicyclo 5 6 or 6 6 system or as bridged systems such as bicyclo 2.2.1 heptane bicyclo 2.2.2 octane and bicyclo 3.2.2 nonane. Examples of monocyclic carbocycles include but are not limited to cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl 1 cyclopent 1 enyl 1 cyclopent 2 enyl 1 cyclopent 3 enyl cyclohexyl 1 cyclohex 1 enyl 1 cyclohex 2 enyl 1 cyclohex 3 enyl cyclohexadienyl cycloheptyl cyclooctyl cyclononyl cyclodecyl cycloundecyl cyclododecyl and the like.

The term cyclic alkenyl refers to a carbocyclic ring radical having at least one double bond in the ring structure.

The term cyclic alkynyl refers to a carbocyclic ring radical having at least one triple bond in the ring structure.

 Aryl means a monovalent aromatic hydrocarbon radical of 6 18 carbon atoms derived by the removal of one hydrogen atom from a single carbon atom of a parent aromatic ring system. Some aryl groups are represented in the exemplary structures as Ar. Aryl includes bicyclic radicals comprising an aromatic ring fused to a saturated partially unsaturated ring or aromatic carbocyclic or heterocyclic ring. Typical aryl groups include but are not limited to radicals derived from benzene phenyl substituted benzenes naphthalene anthracene indenyl indanyl 1 2 dihydronapthalene 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronapthyl and the like. Preferably aryl is phenyl group.

The terms heterocycle heterocyclyl and heterocyclic ring are used interchangeably herein and refer to a saturated or a partially unsaturated i.e. having one or more double and or triple bonds within the ring carbocyclic radical of 3 to 18 ring atoms in which at least one ring atom is a heteroatom selected nitrogen oxygen phosphorus and sulfur the remaining ring atoms being C where one or more ring atoms is optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described below. A heterocycle may be a monocycle having 3 to 7 ring members 2 to 6 carbon atoms and 1 to 4 heteroatoms selected from N O P and S or a bicycle having 7 to 10 ring members 4 to 9 carbon atoms and 1 to 6 heteroatoms selected from N O P and S for example a bicyclo 4 5 5 5 5 6 or 6 6 system. Heterocycles are described in Paquette Leo A. W. A. Benjamin New York 1968 particularly Chapters 1 3 4 6 7 and 9 John Wiley Sons New York 1950 to present in particular Volumes 13 14 16 19 and 28 and . 1960 82 5566. Heterocyclyl also includes radicals where heterocycle radicals are fused with a saturated partially unsaturated ring or aromatic carbocyclic or heterocyclic ring. Examples of heterocyclic rings include but are not limited to pyrrolidinyl tetrahydrofuranyl dihydrofuranyl tetrahydrothienyl tetrahydropyranyl dihydropyranyl tetrahydrothiopyranyl piperidino morpholino thiomorpholino thioxanyl piperazinyl homopiperazinyl azetidinyl oxetanyl thietanyl homopiperidinyl oxepanyl thiepanyl oxazepinyl diazepinyl thiazepinyl 2 pyrrolinyl 3 pyrrolinyl indolinyl 2H pyranyl 4H pyranyl dioxanyl 1 3 dioxolanyl pyrazolinyl dithianyl dithiolanyl dihydropyranyl dihydrothienyl dihydrofuranyl pyrazolidinylimidazolinyl imidazolidinyl 3 azabicyco 3.1.0 hexanyl 3 azabicyclo 4.1.0 heptanyl and azabicyclo 2.2.2 hexanyl. Spiro moieties are also included within the scope of this definition. Examples of a heterocyclic group wherein ring atoms are substituted with oxo O moieties are pyrimidinonyl and 1 1 dioxo thiomorpholinyl.

The term heteroaryl refers to a monovalent aromatic radical of 5 or 6 membered rings and includes fused ring systems at least one of which is aromatic of 5 18 atoms containing one or more heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur. Examples of heteroaryl groups are pyridinyl including for example 2 hydroxypyridinyl imidazolyl imidazopyridinyl pyrimidinyl including for example 4 hydroxypyrimidinyl pyrazolyl triazolyl pyrazinyl tetrazolyl furyl thienyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl oxazolyl isothiazolyl pyrrolyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl indolyl benzimidazolyl benzofuranyl cinnolinyl indazolyl indolizinyl phthalazinyl pyridazinyl triazinyl isoindolyl pteridinyl purinyl oxadiazolyl triazolyl thiadiazolyl furazanyl benzofurazanyl benzothiophenyl benzothiazolyl benzoxazolyl quinazolinyl quinoxalinyl naphthyridinyl and furopyridinyl.

The heterocycle or heteroaryl groups may be carbon carbon linked or nitrogen nitrogen linked attached where such is possible. By way of example and not limitation carbon bonded heterocycles or heteroaryls are bonded at position 2 3 4 5 or 6 of a pyridine position 3 4 5 or 6 of a pyridazine position 2 4 5 or 6 of a pyrimidine position 2 3 5 or 6 of a pyrazine position 2 3 4 or 5 of a furan tetrahydrofuran thiofuran thiophene pyrrole or tetrahydropyrrole position 2 4 or 5 of an oxazole imidazole or thiazole position 3 4 or 5 of an isoxazole pyrazole or isothiazole position 2 or 3 of an aziridine position 2 3 or 4 of an azetidine position 2 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 of a quinoline or position 1 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 of an isoquinoline.

By way of example and not limitation nitrogen bonded heterocycles or heteroaryls are bonded at position 1 of an aziridine azetidine pyrrole pyrrolidine 2 pyrroline 3 pyrroline imidazole imidazolidine 2 imidazoline 3 imidazoline pyrazole pyrazoline 2 pyrazoline 3 pyrazoline piperidine piperazine indole indoline 1H indazole position 2 of a isoindole or isoindoline position 4 of a morpholine and position 9 of a carbazole or O carboline.

The heteroatoms present in heteroaryl or heterocycicyl include the oxidized forms such as NO SO and SO.

The alkyl alkenyl alkynyl cyclic alkyl cyclic alkenyl cyclic alkynyl carbocyclyl aryl heterocyclyl and heteroaryl described above can be optionally substituted with one more e.g. 2 3 4 5 6 or more substituents.

If a substituent is described as being substituted a non hydrogen substituent is in the place of a hydrogen substituent on a carbon oxygen sulfur or nitrogen of the substituent. Thus for example a substituted alkyl substituent is an alkyl substituent wherein at least one non hydrogen substituent is in the place of a hydrogen substituent on the alkyl substituent. To illustrate monofluoroalkyl is alkyl substituted with a fluoro substituent and difluoroalkyl is alkyl substituted with two fluoro substituents. It should be recognized that if there is more than one substitution on a substituent each non hydrogen substituent may be identical or different unless otherwise stated .

If a substituent is described as being optionally substituted the substituent may be either 1 not substituted or 2 substituted. If a carbon of a substituent is described as being optionally substituted with one or more of a list of substituents one or more of the hydrogens on the carbon to the extent there are any may separately and or together be replaced with an independently selected optional substituent. If a nitrogen of a substituent is described as being optionally substituted with one or more of a list of substituents one or more of the hydrogens on the nitrogen to the extent there are any may each be replaced with an independently selected optional substituent. One exemplary substituent may be depicted as NR R wherein R and R together with the nitrogen atom to which they are attached may form a heterocyclic ring. The heterocyclic ring formed from R and R together with the nitrogen atom to which they are attached may be partially or fully saturated. In one embodiment the heterocyclic ring consists of 3 to 7 atoms. In another embodiment the heterocyclic ring is selected from the group consisting of pyrrolyl imidazolyl pyrazolyl triazolyl tetrazolyl isoxazolyl pyridyl and thiazolyl.

If a group of substituents are collectively described as being optionally substituted by one or more of a list of substituents the group may include 1 unsubstitutable substituents 2 substitutable substituents that are not substituted by the optional substituents and or 3 substitutable substituents that are substituted by one or more of the optional substituents.

If a substituent is described as being optionally substituted with up to a particular number of non hydrogen substituents that substituent may be either 1 not substituted or 2 substituted by up to that particular number of non hydrogen substituents or by up to the maximum number of substitutable positions on the substituent whichever is less. Thus for example if a substituent is described as a heteroaryl optionally substituted with up to 3 non hydrogen substituents then any heteroaryl with less than 3 substitutable positions would be optionally substituted by up to only as many non hydrogen substituents as the heteroaryl has substitutable positions. Such substituents in non limiting examples can be selected from a linear branched or cyclic alkyl alkenyl or alkynyl having from 1 to 10 carbon atoms aryl heteroaryl heterocycyclyl halogen guanidinium NH C NH NH OR NRR NO NRCOR SR a sulfoxide represented by SOR a sulfone represented by SOR a sulfonate SOM a sulfate OSOM a sulfonamide represented by SONRR cyano an azido COR OCOR OCONRRand a polyethylene glycol unit OCHCH Rwherein M is H or a cation such as Na or K R Rand Rare each independently selected from H linear branched or cyclic alkyl alkenyl or alkynyl having from 1 to 10 carbon atoms a polyethylene glycol unit OCHCH R wherein n is an integer from 1 to 24 an aryl having from 6 to 10 carbon atoms a heterocyclic ring having from 3 to 10 carbon atoms and a heteroaryl having 5 to 10 carbon atoms and Ris H or a linear or branched alkyl having 1 to 4 carbon atoms wherein the alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heteroaryl and heterocycicyl in the groups represented by R R R Rand Rare optionally substituted with one or more e.g. 2 3 4 5 6 or more substituents independently selected from halogen OH CN NOand unsubstituted linear or branched alkyl having 1 to 4 carbon atoms. Preferably the substituents for the optionally substituted alkyl alkenyl alkynyl cyclic alkyl cyclic alkenyl cyclic alkynyl carbocyclyl aryl heterocyclyl and heteroaryl described above include halogen CN NRR CF OR aryl heteroaryl heterocycycl SR SOR SORand SOM.

The term compound or cytotoxic compound cytotoxic dimer and cytotoxic dimer compound are used interchangeably. They are intended to include compounds for which a structure or formula or any derivative thereof has been disclosed in the present invention or a structure or formula or any derivative thereof that has been incorporated by reference. The term also includes stereoisomers geometric isomers tautomers solvates and salts e.g. pharmaceutically acceptable salts of all the formulae disclosed in the present invention. The term also includes any solvates hydrates and polymorphs of any of the foregoing. The specific recitation of stereoisomers geometric isomers tautomers solvates salt conjugates conjugates salt solvate hydrate or polymorph in certain aspects of the invention described in this application shall not be interpreted as an intended omission of these forms in other aspects of the invention where the term compound is used without recitation of these other forms.

The term conjugate as used herein refers to a compound described herein or a derivative thereof that is linked to a cell binding agent.

The term chiral refers to molecules which have the property of non superimposability of the mirror image partner while the term achiral refers to molecules which are superimposable on their mirror image partner.

The term stereoisomer refers to compounds which have identical chemical constitution and connectivity but different orientations of their atoms in space that cannot be interconverted by rotation about single bonds.

 Diastereomer refers to a stereoisomer with two or more centers of chirality and whose molecules are not mirror images of one another. Diastereomers have different physical properties e.g. melting points boiling points spectral properties and reactivities. Mixtures of diastereomers may separate under high resolution analytical procedures such as crystallization electrophoresis and chromatography.

 Enantiomers refer to two stereoisomers of a compound which are non superimposable mirror images of one another.

Stereochemical definitions and conventions used herein generally follow S. P. Parker Ed. McGraw Hill 1984 McGraw Hill Book Company New York and Eliel E. and Wilen S. John Wiley Sons Inc. New York 1994. The compounds of the invention may contain asymmetric or chiral centers and therefore exist in different stereoisomeric forms. It is intended that all stereoisomeric forms of the compounds of the invention including but not limited to diastereomers enantiomers and atropisomers as well as mixtures thereof such as racemic mixtures form part of the present invention. Many organic compounds exist in optically active forms i.e. they have the ability to rotate the plane of plane polarized light. In describing an optically active compound the prefixes D and L or R and S are used to denote the absolute configuration of the molecule about its chiral center s . The prefixes d and I or and are employed to designate the sign of rotation of plane polarized light by the compound with or 1 meaning that the compound is levorotatory. A compound prefixed with or d is dextrorotatory. For a given chemical structure these stereoisomers are identical except that they are mirror images of one another. A specific stereoisomer may also be referred to as an enantiomer and a mixture of such isomers is often called an enantiomeric mixture. A 50 50 mixture of enantiomers is referred to as a racemic mixture or a racemate which may occur where there has been no stereoselection or stereospecificity in a chemical reaction or process. The terms racemic mixture and racemate refer to an equimolar mixture of two enantiomeric species devoid of optical activity.

The term tautomer or tautomeric form refers to structural isomers of different energies which are interconvertible via a low energy barrier. For example proton tautomers also known as prototropic tautomers include interconversions via migration of a proton such as keto enol and imine enamine isomerizations. Valence tautomers include interconversions by reorganization of some of the bonding electrons.

One preferred form of the compound of the invention includes compounds with or without any linker groups and conjugates of the invention comprising an adduct formed between an imine bond of the compounds conjugates and an imine reactive reagent. Another preferred form of the compound of the invention includes compounds such as those of formula I IV wherein when the double line between N and C represents a single bond X is H or an amine protecting group. A compound of the invention may contain one or both forms described herein e.g. containing an adduct formed between an imine bond of the compounds conjugates and an imine reactive reagent and or containing a Y leaving group when X is H .

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable salt as used herein refers to pharmaceutically acceptable organic or inorganic salts of a compound of the invention. Exemplary salts include but are not limited to sulfate citrate acetate oxalate chloride bromide iodide nitrate bisulfate phosphate acid phosphate isonicotinate lactate salicylate acid citrate tartrate oleate tannate pantothenate bitartrate ascorbate succinate maleate gentisinate fumarate gluconate glucuronate saccharate formate benzoate glutamate methanesulfonate mesylate ethanesulfonate benzenesulfonate p toluenesulfonate pamoate i.e. 1 1 methylene bis 2 hydroxy 3 naphthoate salts alkali metal e.g. sodium and potassium salts alkaline earth metal e.g. magnesium salts and ammonium salts. A pharmaceutically acceptable salt may involve the inclusion of another molecule such as an acetate ion a succinate ion or other counter ion. The counter ion may be any organic or inorganic moiety that stabilizes the charge on the parent compound. Furthermore a pharmaceutically acceptable salt may have more than one charged atom in its structure. Instances where multiple charged atoms are part of the pharmaceutically acceptable salt can have multiple counter ions. Hence a pharmaceutically acceptable salt can have one or more charged atoms and or one or more counter ion.

If the compound of the invention is a base the desired pharmaceutically acceptable salt may be prepared by any suitable method available in the art for example treatment of the free base with an inorganic acid such as hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid sulfuric acid nitric acid methanesulfonic acid phosphoric acid and the like or with an organic acid such as acetic acid maleic acid succinic acid mandelic acid fumaric acid malonic acid pyruvic acid oxalic acid glycolic acid salicylic acid a pyranosidyl acid such as glucuronic acid or galacturonic acid an alpha hydroxy acid such as citric acid or tartaric acid an amino acid such as aspartic acid or glutamic acid an aromatic acid such as benzoic acid or cinnamic acid a sulfonic acid such as p toluenesulfonic acid or ethanesulfonic acid or the like.

If the compound of the invention is an acid the desired pharmaceutically acceptable salt may be prepared by any suitable method for example treatment of the free acid with an inorganic or organic base such as an amine primary secondary or tertiary an alkali metal hydroxide or alkaline earth metal hydroxide or the like. Illustrative examples of suitable salts include but are not limited to organic salts derived from amino acids such as glycine and arginine ammonia primary secondary and tertiary amines and cyclic amines such as piperidine morpholine and piperazine and inorganic salts derived from sodium calcium potassium magnesium manganese iron copper zinc aluminum and lithium.

As used herein the term solvate means a compound which further includes a stoichiometric or non stoichiometric amount of solvent such as water isopropanol acetone ethanol methanol DMSO ethyl acetate acetic acid and ethanolamine dichloromethane 2 propanol or the like bound by non covalent intermolecular forces. Solvates or hydrates of the compounds are readily prepared by addition of at least one molar equivalent of a hydroxylic solvent such as methanol ethanol 1 propanol 2 propanol or water to the compound to result in solvation or hydration of the imine moiety.

The terms abnormal cell growth and proliferative disorder are used interchangeably in this application. Abnormal cell growth as used herein unless otherwise indicated refers to cell growth that is independent of normal regulatory mechanisms e.g. loss of contact inhibition . This includes for example the abnormal growth of 1 tumor cells tumors that proliferate by expressing a mutated tyrosine kinase or overexpression of a receptor tyrosine kinase 2 benign and malignant cells of other proliferative diseases in which aberrant tyrosine kinase activation occurs 3 any tumors that proliferate by receptor tyrosine kinases 4 any tumors that proliferate by aberrant serine threonine kinase activation and 5 benign and malignant cells of other proliferative diseases in which aberrant serine threonine kinase activation occurs.

The terms cancer and cancerous refer to or describe the physiological condition in mammals that is typically characterized by unregulated cell growth. A tumor comprises one or more cancerous cells and or benign or pre cancerous cells. Examples of cancer include but are not limited to carcinoma lymphoma blastoma sarcoma and leukemia or lymphoid malignancies. More particular examples of such cancers include squamous cell cancer e.g. epithelial squamous cell cancer lung cancer including small cell lung cancer non small cell lung cancer NSCLC adenocarcinoma of the lung and squamous carcinoma of the lung cancer of the peritoneum hepatocellular cancer gastric or stomach cancer including gastrointestinal cancer pancreatic cancer glioblastoma cervical cancer ovarian cancer liver cancer bladder cancer hepatoma breast cancer colon cancer rectal cancer colorectal cancer endometrial or uterine carcinoma salivary gland carcinoma kidney or renal cancer prostate cancer vulval cancer thyroid cancer hepatic carcinoma anal carcinoma penile carcinoma acute leukemia head brain and neck cancer cancers of lymphatic organs and hematological malignancy including Leukemia Acute lymphoblastic leukemia ALL Acute myelogenous leukemia AML Chronic lymphocytic leukemia CLL Chronic myelogenous leukemia CML Acute monocytic leukemia AMOL Hairy cell leukemia HCL T cell prolymphocytic leukemia T PLL Large granular lymphocytic leukemia Adult T cell leukemia Lymphoma small lymphocytic lymphoma SLL Hodgkin s lymphomas Nodular sclerosis Mixed cellularity Lymphocyte rich Lymphocyte depleted or not depleted and Nodular lymphocyte predominant Hodgkin lymphoma Non Hodgkin s lymphomas all subtypes Chronic lymphocytic leukemia Small lymphocytic lymphoma B cell prolymphocytic leukemia Lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma such as Waldenstr m macroglobulinemia Splenic marginal zone lymphoma Plasma cell neoplasms Plasma cell myeloma Plasmacytoma Monoclonal immunoglobulin deposition diseases Heavy chain diseases Extranodal marginal zone B cell lymphoma MALT lymphoma Nodal marginal zone B cell lymphoma NMZL Follicular lymphoma Mantle cell lymphoma Diffuse large B cell lymphoma Mediastinal thymic large B cell lymphoma Intravascular large B cell lymphoma Primary effusion lymphoma Burkitt lymphoma leukemia T cell prolymphocytic leukemia T cell large granular lymphocytic leukemia Aggressive NK cell leukemia Adult T cell leukemia lymphoma Extranodal NK T cell lymphoma nasal type Enteropathy type T cell lymphoma Hepatosplenic T cell lymphoma Blastic NK cell lymphoma Mycosis fungoides Sezary syndrome Primary cutaneous CD30 positive T cell lymphoproliferative disorders Primary cutaneous anaplastic large cell lymphoma Lymphomatoid papulosis Angioimmunoblastic T cell lymphoma Peripheral T cell lymphoma unspecified Anaplastic large cell lymphoma multiple myeloma plasma cell myeloma or Kahler s disease .

A therapeutic agent encompasses both a biological agent such as an antibody a peptide a protein an enzyme or a chemotherapeutic agent.

A chemotherapeutic agent is a chemical compound useful in the treatment of cancer. Examples of chemotherapeutic agents include Erlotinib TARCEVA Genentech OSI Pharm. Bortezomib VELCADE Millennium Pharm. Fulvestrant FASLODEX AstraZeneca Sutent SU11248 Pfizer Letrozole FEMARA Novartis Imatinib mesylate GLEEVEC Novartis PTK787 ZK 222584 Novartis Oxaliplatin Eloxatin Sanofi 5 FU 5 fluorouracil Leucovorin Rapamycin Sirolimus RAPAMUNE Wyeth Lapatinib TYKERB GSK572016 Glaxo Smith Kline Lonafarnib SCH 66336 Sorafenib BAY43 9006 Bayer Labs and Gefitinib IRESSA AstraZeneca AG1478 AG1571 SU 5271 Sugen alkylating agents such as thiotepa and CYTOXAN cyclosphosphamide alkyl sulfonates such as busulfan improsulfan and piposulfan aziridines such as benzodopa carboquone meturedopa and uredopa ethylenimines and methylamelamines including altretamine triethylenemelamine triethylenephosphoramide triethylenethiophosphoramide and trimethylomelamine acetogenins especially bullatacin and bullatacinone a camptothecin including the synthetic analog topotecan bryostatin callystatin CC 1065 including its adozelesin carzelesin and bizelesin synthetic analogs cryptophycins particularly cryptophycin 1 and cryptophycin 8 dolastatin duocarmycin including the synthetic analogs KW 2189 and CB1 TM1 eleutherobin pancratistatin a sarcodictyin spongistatin nitrogen mustards such as chlorambucil chlornaphazine chlorophosphamide estramustine Ifosfamide mechlorethamine mechlorethamine oxide hydrochloride melphalan novembichin phenesterine prednimustine trofosfamide uracil mustard nitrosureas such as carmustine chlorozotocin fotemustine lomustine nimustine and ranimnustine antibiotics such as the enediyne antibiotics e.g. calicheamicin especially calicheamicin gammall and calicheamicin omegall Angew Chem. Intl. Ed. Engl. 1994 33 183 186 dynemicin including dynemicin A bisphosphonates such as clodronate an esperamicin as well as neocarzinostatin chromophore and related chromoprotein enediyne antibiotic chromophores aclacinomysins actinomycin authramycin azaserine bleomycins cactinomycin carabicin caminomycin carzinophilin chromomycinis dactinomycin daunorubicin detorubicin 6 diazo 5 oxo L norleucine ADRIAMYCIN doxorubicin morpholino doxorubicin cyanomorpholino doxorubicin 2 pyrrolino doxorubicin and deoxydoxorubicin epirubicin esorubicin idarubicin marcellomycin mitomycins such as mitomycin C mycophenolic acid nogalamycin olivomycins peplomycin porfiromycin puromycin quelamycin rodorubicin streptonigrin streptozocin tubercidin ubenimex zinostatin zorubicin anti metabolites such as methotrexate and 5 fluorouracil 5 FU folic acid analogs such as denopterin methotrexate pteropterin trimetrexate purine analogs such as fludarabine 6 mercaptopurine thiamniprine thioguanine pyrimidine analogs such as ancitabine azacitidine 6 azauridine carmofur cytarabine dideoxyuridine doxifluridine enocitabine floxuridine androgens such as calusterone dromostanolone propionate epitiostanol mepitiostane testolactone anti adrenals such as aminoglutethimide mitotane trilostane folic acid replenisher such as frolinic acid aceglatone aldophosphamide glycoside aminolevulinic acid eniluracil amsacrine bestrabucil bisantrene edatraxate defofamine demecolcine diaziquone elformithine elliptinium acetate an epothilone etoglucid gallium nitrate hydroxyurea lentinan lonidainine maytansinoids such as maytansine and ansamitocins mitoguazone mitoxantrone mopidanmol nitraerine pentostatin phenamet pirarubicin losoxantrone podophyllinic acid 2 ethylhydrazide procarbazine PSK polysaccharide complex JHS Natural Products Eugene Oreg. razoxane rhizoxin sizofuran spirogermanium tenuazonic acid triaziquone 2 2 2 trichlorotriethylamine trichothecenes especially T 2 toxin verracurin A roridin A and anguidine urethan vindesine dacarbazine mannomustine mitobronitol mitolactol pipobroman gacytosine arabinoside Ara C cyclophosphamide thiotepa taxoids e.g. TAXOL paclitaxel Bristol Myers Squibb Oncology Princeton N.J. ABRAXANE Cremophor free albumin engineered nanoparticle formulations of paclitaxel American Pharmaceutical Partners Schaumberg Ill. and TAXOTERE doxetaxel Rhone Poulenc Rorer Antony France chloranmbucil GEMZAR gemcitabine 6 thioguanine mercaptopurine methotrexate platinum analogs such as cisplatin and carboplatin vinblastine etoposide VP 16 ifosfamide mitoxantrone vincristine NAVELBINE vinorelbine novantrone teniposide edatrexate daunomycin aminopterin capecitabine XELODA ibandronate CPT 11 topoisomerase inhibitor RFS 2000 difluoromethylornithine DMFO retinoids such as retinoic acid and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above.

Also included in the definition of chemotherapeutic agent are i anti hormonal agents that act to regulate or inhibit hormone action on tumors such as anti estrogens and selective estrogen receptor modulators SERMs including for example tamoxifen including NOLVADEX tamoxifen citrate raloxifene droloxifene 4 hydroxytamoxifen trioxifene keoxifene LY117018 onapristone and FARESTON toremifine citrate ii aromatase inhibitors that inhibit the enzyme aromatase which regulates estrogen production in the adrenal glands such as for example 4 5 imidazoles aminoglutethimide MEGASE megestrol acetate AROMASIN exemestane Pfizer formestanie fadrozole RIVISOR vorozole FEMARA letrozole Novartis and ARIMIDEX anastrozole AstraZeneca iii anti androgens such as flutamide nilutamide bicalutamide leuprolide and goserelin as well as troxacitabine a 1 3 dioxolane nucleoside cytosine analog iv protein kinase inhibitors v lipid kinase inhibitors vi antisense oligonucleotides particularly those which inhibit expression of genes in signaling pathways implicated in aberrant cell proliferation such as for example PKC alpha Ralf and H Ras vii ribozymes such as VEGF expression inhibitors e.g. ANGIOZYME and HER2 expression inhibitors viii vaccines such as gene therapy vaccines for example ALLOVECTIN LEUVECTIN and VAXID PROLEUKIN rIL 2 a topoisomerase 1 inhibitor such as LURTOTECAN ABARELIX rmRH ix anti angiogenic agents such as bevacizumab AVASTIN Genentech and x pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above. Other anti angiogenic agents include MMP 2 matrix metalloproteinase 2 inhibitors MMP 9 matrix metalloproteinase 9 inhibitors COX II cyclooxygenase II inhibitors and VEGF receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors. Examples of such useful matrix metalloproteinase inhibitors that can be used in combination with the present compounds compositions are described in WO 96 33172 WO 96 27583 EP 818442 EP 1004578 WO 98 07697 WO 98 03516 WO 98 34918 WO 98 34915 WO 98 33768 WO 98 30566 EP 606 046 EP 931 788 WO 90 05719 WO 99 52910 WO 99 52889 WO 99 29667 WO 99 07675 EP 945864 U.S. Pat. No. 5 863 949 U.S. Pat. No. 5 861 510 and EP 780 386 all of which are incorporated herein in their entireties by reference. Examples of VEGF receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors include 4 4 bromo 2 fluoroanilino 6 methoxy 7 1 methylpiperidin 4 ylmethoxy quinazoline ZD6474 Example 2 within WO 01 32651 4 4 fluoro 2 methylindol 5 yloxy 6 methoxy 7 3 pyrrolidin 1 ylpropoxy quinazoline AZD2171 Example 240 within WO 00 47212 vatalanib PTK787 WO 98 35985 and SU11248 sunitinib WO 01 60814 and compounds such as those disclosed in PCT Publication Nos. WO 97 22596 WO 97 30035 WO 97 32856 and WO 98 13354 .

Other examples of chemotherapeutic agents that can be used in combination with the present compounds include inhibitors of PI3K phosphoinositide 3 kinase such as those reported in Yaguchi et al 2006 Jour. of the Nat. Cancer Inst. 98 8 545 556 U.S. Pat. No. 7 173 029 U.S. Pat. No. 7 037 915 U.S. Pat. No. 6 608 056 U.S. Pat. No. 6 608 053 U.S. Pat. No. 6 838 457 U.S. Pat. No. 6 770 641 U.S. Pat. No. 6 653 320 U.S. Pat. No. 6 403 588 WO 2006 046031 WO 2006 046035 WO 2006 046040 WO 2007 042806 WO 2007 042810 WO 2004 017950 US 2004 092561 WO 2004 007491 WO 2004 006916 WO 2003 037886 US 2003 149074 WO 2003 035618 WO 2003 034997 US 2003 158212 EP 1417976 US 2004 053946 JP 2001247477 JP 08175990 JP 08176070 U.S. Pat. No. 6 703 414 and WO 97 15658 all of which are incorporated herein in their entireties by reference. Specific examples of such PI3K inhibitors include SF 1126 PI3K inhibitor Semafore Pharmaceuticals BEZ 235 PI3K inhibitor Novartis XL 147 PI3K inhibitor Exelixis Inc. .

Chemotherapeutic agents may also include any of the generic drugs or biosimilars of the brand name drugs referenced herein or improvements thereof including improved formulations delivery means sustained release bioadhesive coating targeted delivery etc. and dosage forms.

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable indicates that the substance or composition must be compatible chemically and or toxicologically with the other ingredients comprising a formulation and or the mammal being treated therewith.

The term protecting group or protecting moiety refers to a substituent that is commonly employed to block or protect a particular functionality while reacting other functional groups on the compound a derivative thereof or a conjugate thereof. For example an amine protecting group or an amino protecting moiety is a substituent attached to an amino group that blocks or protects the amino functionality in the compound. Such groups are well known in the art see for example P. Wuts and T. Greene 2007 Chapter 7 J. Wiley Sons NJ and exemplified by carbamates such as methyl and ethyl carbamate FMOC substituted ethyl carbamates carbamates cleaved by 1 6 elimination also termed self immolative ureas amides peptides alkyl and aryl derivatives. Suitable amino protecting groups include acetyl trifluoroacetyl t butoxycarbonyl BOC benzyloxycarbonyl CBZ and 9 fluorenylmethylenoxycarbonyl Fmoc . For a general description of protecting groups and their use see P. G. M. Wuts T. W. Greene John Wiley Sons New York 2007.

The term leaving group refers to an group of charged or uncharged moiety that departs during a substitution or displacement. Such leaving groups are well known in the art and include but not limited to halogens esters alkoxy hydroxyl tosylates triflates mesylates nitriles azide carbamate disulfides thioesters thioethers and diazonium compounds.

The term reactive group refers to a group that can form a covalent bond with a cell binding agent. More specifically it reacts with an amino group on a lysine residue or a thiol group on a cysteine residue to form a covalent link between CM and a CBA.

The term amino acid refers to naturally occurring amino acids or non naturally occurring amino acid represented by NH C RR C O OH wherein Rand R are each independently H an optionally substituted linear branched or cyclic alkyl alkenyl or alkynyl having 1 to 10 carbon atoms aryl heteroaryl or heterocyclyl. The term amino acid also refers to the corresponding residue when one hydrogen atom is removed from the amine and or carboxy end of the amino acid such as NH C RR C O O .

The term cation refers to an ion with positive charge. The cation can be monovalent e.g. Na K etc. bi valent e.g. Ca Me etc. or multi valent e.g. Aletc. . Preferably the cation is monovalent.

The term therapeutically effective amount means that amount of active compound or conjugate that elicits the desired biological response in a subject. Such response includes alleviation of the symptoms of the disease or disorder being treated prevention inhibition or a delay in the recurrence of symptom of the disease or of the disease itself an increase in the longevity of the subject compared with the absence of the treatment or prevention inhibition or delay in the progression of symptom of the disease or of the disease itself. Determination of the effective amount is well within the capability of those skilled in the art especially in light of the detailed disclosure provided herein. Toxicity and therapeutic efficacy of compound I can be determined by standard pharmaceutical procedures in cell cultures and in experimental animals. The effective amount of compound or conjugate of the present invention or other therapeutic agent to be administered to a subject will depend on the stage category and status of the multiple myeloma and characteristics of the subject such as general health age sex body weight and drug tolerance. The effective amount of compound or conjugate of the present invention or other therapeutic agent to be administered will also depend on administration route and dosage form. Dosage amount and interval can be adjusted individually to provide plasma levels of the active compound that are sufficient to maintain desired therapeutic effects.

In one aspect the present invention is related to cytotoxic compounds each of which contains a cytotoxic moiety CM or CM represented by any one of Formulas I VII and a cytotoxic compound represented by Formula XII.

In a first specific embodiment in Formulas I IV A is CH and B is O A is N and B is O or A is CH and B is CH S and the remainder of the variables are as defined in Formulas I IV.

In a second specific embodiment for Formulas I and III the double line between N and C represents a single bond or a double bond provided that when the double line is a double bond X is absent and Y is H or a linear C1 C4 alkyl or a branched C1 C4 alkyl and when the double line is a single bond X is H or an amine protecting moiety and Y is selected from the group consisting of H OR OCOR OCOOR OCONR R NR R NR COR NR NR R an optionally substituted 5 or 6 membered nitrogen containing heterocycle a guanidinum represented by NR C NH NR R an amino acid and a peptide represented by NRCOP wherein P is an amino acid or a polypeptide containing between 2 to 20 amino acid units SR SOR SOH SOH OSOH halogen cyano and an azido and the reminder of the variables are as defined for Formulas I IV or the first specific embodiment.

In a third specific embodiment in Formula I II III or IV CM is represented by any one of the following formulas 

Alternatively in Formulas XIII XVI the double line between N and C represents a single bond or a double bond provided that when the double line is a double bond X is absent and Y is H and when the double line is a single bond X is H or the amine protecting group and Y is selected from the group consisting of H OR OCOR SR NR R SOH SOH and OSOH 

R is independently selected from the group consisting of H an optionally substituted linear C1 C10 alkyl an optionally substituted branched C1 C10 alkyl an optionally substituted cyclic C3 C10 alkyl an optionally substituted linear C2 C10 alkenyl an optionally substituted branched C2 C10 alkenyl an optionally substituted cyclic C3 C10 alkenyl an optionally substituted linear C2 C10 alkynyl an optionally substituted branched C2 C10 alkynyl an optionally substituted cyclic C3 C10 alkynyl and a PEG group CHCHO R wherein n is an integer from 1 to 24 and Ris a linear C1 C4 alkyl or a branched C1 C4 alkyl 

R and R are each independently selected from the group consisting of H OH OR NRR COR an optionally substituted linear C1 C10 alkyl an optionally substituted branched C1 C10 alkyl an optionally substituted cyclic C3 C10 alkyl an optionally substituted linear C2 C10 alkenyl an optionally substituted branched C2 C10 alkenyl an optionally substituted cyclic C3 C10 alkenyl an optionally substituted linear C2 C10 alkynyl an optionally substituted branched C2 C10 alkynyl an optionally substituted cyclic C3 C10 alkynyl an optionally substituted aryl having from 6 to 18 carbon atoms and an optionally substituted 3 to 18 membered heterocyclic ring having 1 to 6 heteroatoms selected from the group consisting of O S N and P a PEG group CHCHO R wherein n is an integer from 1 to 24 preferably n is 2 4 or 8 and Ris H an optionally substituted linear C1 C10 alkyl an optionally substituted branched C1 C10 alkyl an optionally substituted cyclic C3 C10 alkyl an optionally substituted linear C2 C10 alkenyl an optionally substituted branched C2 C10 alkenyl an optionally substituted cyclic C3 C10 alkenyl an optionally substituted linear C2 C10 alkynyl an optionally substituted branched C2 C10 alkynyl an optionally substituted cyclic C3 C10 alkynyl and a PEG group CHCHO R 

X is independently selected from the group consisting of H OH an optionally substituted linear C1 C10 alkyl an optionally substituted branched C1 C10 alkyl an optionally substituted cyclic C3 C10 alkyl an optionally substituted linear C2 C10 alkenyl an optionally substituted branched C2 C10 alkenyl an optionally substituted cyclic C3 C10 alkenyl an optionally substituted linear C2 C10 alkynyl an optionally substituted branched C2 C10 alkynyl an optionally substituted cyclic C3 C10 alkynyl phenyl and the amine protecting group 

Y is independently selected from the group consisting of H an oxo group an optionally substituted linear C1 C10 alkyl an optionally substituted branched C1 C10 alkyl an optionally substituted cyclic C3 C10 alkyl an optionally substituted linear C2 C10 alkenyl an optionally substituted branched C2 C10 alkenyl an optionally substituted cyclic C3 C10 alkenyl an optionally substituted linear C2 C10 alkynyl an optionally substituted branched C2 C10 alkynyl an optionally substituted cyclic C3 C10 alkynyl and the reminder of the variables are as defined for Formulas I IV or first or second specific embodiment.

In a fourth specific embodiment CM is represented by Formulas I IV and XIII XVI wherein the double line between N and C represents a single bond or a double bond provided that when the double line is a double bond X is absent and Y is H and when the double line is a single bond X is H and Y is selected from the group consisting of H OR OCOR SR NR R SOH SOH and OSOH X is H or Me and Y is H or oxo and alternatively X and Y are both H R R or R for each occurrence is independently H a linear C1 C4 alkyl or a branched C1 C4 alkyl and Ris H R OR or halogen. Alternatively in Formulas I IV and XIII XVI the double line between N and C represents a single bond or a double bond provided that when the double line is a double bond X is absent and Y is H and when the double line is a single bond X is H and Y is selected from the group consisting of H SOH OH OMe OEt and NHOH. In another alternative in Formulas I IV and XIII XVI the double line between N and C represents a single bond or a double bond provided that when the double line is a double bond X is absent and Y is H and when the double line is a single bond X is H and Y is H SOH or OH. The reminder of the variables are as defined for Formulas I IV and XIII XVI or the first second or third specific embodiment.

In a fifth specific embodiment CM is represented by Formulas I IV wherein W when present is C O and Z and Z when present are CH . The reminder of the variables are as defined for Formulas I IV or first or second specific embodiment.

In a sixth specific embodiment in Formulas I IV and XIII XVI CM is represented by any one of the following formulas 

In an eighth specific embodiment CM is represented by Formulas I IV and XIII XXVII wherein m when present is an integer from 1 to 10 and m is a range with the end values selected from any of 1 10 e.g. 1 7 3 6 etc. alternatively m is an integer of 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 or 10 and in another alternative m is 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 and the remainder of the variables are as defined for Formulas I IV and XIII XVI or the six specific embodiments described above.

Representative processes for preparing the cytotoxic compounds of the present invention are shown in . A detail description of preparation of precursor Compound 1 including synthesis schemes can be found in Example 29 of US 2010 0203007 A1 incorporated herein by reference .

The synthesis of the other precursors such as the ones listed below can be similarly produced using substantially the same synthesis schemes.

The effectiveness of the conjugates of the invention as therapeutic agents depends on the careful selection of an appropriate cell binding agent. Cell binding agents may be of any kind presently known or that become known and includes peptides and non peptides. Generally these can be antibodies especially monoclonal antibodies lymphokines hormones growth factors vitamins such as folate etc. which may bind to a cell surface receptor thereof e.g. a folate receptor nutrient transport molecules such as transferrin or any other cell binding molecule or substance.

In certain embodiments the cell binding agents are proteins or polypeptides or compounds comprising proteins or polypeptides. Preferably the proteins or polypeptides comprise one or more Lys residues with side chain NHgroups. Alternatively or in addition the proteins or polypeptides comprise one or more Cys residues. The side chain SH groups of the Cys residues may be intact or may be in a disulfide bond that can be reduced. Preferably reduction of the disulfide bond s does not significantly negatively impact the cell binding function of the proteins or polypeptides e.g. in the case of antibody or antigen binding portion thereof reduction of the disulfide bonds does not substantially increase the dissociation of light chains heavy chains . In one embodiment the cell binding agent is a cysteine engineered antibodies such as those described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 855 275. Alternatively the cell binding agents are proteins or polypeptides that comprise one or more un natural amino acids such as those described in US 2010 0184134 US 2010 0184135 US 2010 0048871 US 2010 0093082 US 2010 0167347 and U.S. Pat. No. 8 153 758 

The Lys side chain NHgroups and or the Cys side chain SH groups may be covalently linked to the linkers which are in turn linked to the dimer compounds of the invention thus conjugating the cell binding agents to the dimer compounds of the invention. Each protein based cell binding agents may contain multiple Lys side chain NHgroups and or the Cys side chain SH groups available for linking the compounds of the invention through the bifunctional crosslinkers.

antibodies including polyclonal antibodies monoclonal antibodies fragments of antibodies such as Fab Fab and F ab Fv minibodies diabodies tribodies tetrabodies Parham 131 2895 2902 1983 Spring et al. 113 470 478 1974 Nisonoff et al. 89 230 244 1960 Kim et al. 7 2486 2497 2008 Carter 6 343 357 2006 

hormones such as insulin TRH thyrotropin releasing hormone MSH melanocyte stimulating hormone steroid hormones such as androgens and estrogens 

growth factors and colony stimulating factors such as EGF TGF alpha FGF VEGF G CSF M CSF and GM CSF Burgess 5 155 158 1984 

Protein scaffolds based on a consensus sequence of fibronectin type III FN3 repeats also known as Centyrins See U.S. Patent Publication 2010 0255056 incorporated herein by reference 

Designer Ankyrin Repeat Proteins DARPins U.S. Patent Application Nos. 20040132028 20090082274 20110118146 20110224100 incorporated herein by reference C. Zahnd et al. 201070 1595 1605 incorporated herein by reference and 

Fibronectin domain scaffold proteins Adnectins US Patent Application Nos. 20070082365 20080139791 incorporated herein by reference .

Monoclonal antibody techniques allow for the production of extremely specific cell binding agents in the form of specific monoclonal antibodies. Particularly well known in the art are techniques for creating monoclonal antibodies produced by immunizing mice rats hamsters or any other mammal with the antigen of interest such as the intact target cell antigens isolated from the target cell whole virus attenuated whole virus and viral proteins such as viral coat proteins. Sensitized human cells can also be used. Another method of creating monoclonal antibodies is the use of phage libraries of scFv single chain variable region specifically human scFv see e.g. Griffiths et al. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 885 793 and 5 969 108 McCafferty et al. WO 92 01047 Liming et al. WO 99 06587 . In addition resurfaced antibodies disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 639 641 may also be used as may chimeric antibodies and humanized antibodies. Selection of the appropriate cell binding agent is a matter of choice that depends upon the particular cell population that is to be targeted but in general human monoclonal antibodies are preferred if an appropriate one is available.

For example the monoclonal antibody MY9 is a murine IgG1 antibody that binds specifically to the CD33 Antigen J. D. Griffin et al. 8 521 1984 and can be used if the target cells express CD33 as in the disease of acute myelogenous leukemia AML . The cell binding agent may be any compound that can bind a cell either in a specific or non specific manner. Generally these can be antibodies especially monoclonal antibodies and antibody fragments interferons lymphokines hormones growth factors vitamins nutrient transport molecules such as transferrin or any other cell binding molecule or substance.

Where the cell binding agent is an antibody it binds to an antigen that may be a polypeptide or may be a transmembrane molecule e.g. receptor for a ligand as described in the paragraph below . Alternatively the cell binding agent may be a ligand such as a growth factor or a functional portion thereof that binds to a cell surface molecule such as a growth factor receptor . Thus by exploring the binding between antibody and antigen or ligand and its receptor target the cell binding agent targets the conjugated drug molecule to a target cell bearing the antigen or the receptor target.

Exemplary antigens or ligands include molecules such as renin a growth hormone including human growth hormone and bovine growth hormone growth hormone releasing factor parathyroid hormone thyroid stimulating hormone lipoproteins alpha 1 antitrypsin insulin A chain insulin B chain proinsulin follicle stimulating hormone calcitonin luteinizing hormone glucagon clotting factors such as factor vmc factor IX tissue factor TF and von Willebrands factor anti clotting factors such as Protein C atrial natriuretic factor lung surfactant a plasminogen activator such as urokinase or human urine or tissue type plasminogen activator t PA bombesin thrombin hemopoietic growth factor tumor necrosis factor alpha and beta enkephalinase RANTES regulated on activation normally T cell expressed and secreted human macrophage inflammatory protein MIP 1 alpha a serum albumin such as human serum albumin Muellerian inhibiting substance relaxin A chain relaxin B chain prorelaxin mouse gonadotropin associated peptide a microbial protein such as beta lactamase DNase IgE a cytotoxic T lymphocyte associated antigen CTLA such as CTLA 4 inhibin activin vascular endothelial growth factor VEGF protein A or D rheumatoid factors a neurotrophic factor such as bone derived neurotrophic factor BDNF neurotrophin 3 4 5 or 6 NT 3 NT4 NT 5 or NT 6 or a nerve growth factor such as NGF platelet derived growth factor PDGF fibroblast growth factor such as aFGF and bFGF fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 FGFR2 epidermal growth factor EGF transforming growth factor TGF such as TGF alpha and TGF beta including TGF 1 TGF 2 TGF 3 TGF 4 or TGF 5 insulin like growth factor I and II IGF I and IGF II des 1 3 IGF I brain IGF I insulin like growth factor binding proteins melanotransferrin EpCAM GD3 FLT3 PSMA PSCA MUC1 MUC16 STEAP CEA TENB2 EphA receptors EphB receptors folate receptor FOLR1 mesothelin cripto alphabeta integrins VEGF VEGFR EGFR tarnsferrin receptor IRTA1 IRTA2 IRTA3 IRTA4 IRTA5 CD proteins such as CD2 CD3 CD4 CD5 CD6 CD8 CD11 CD14 CD19 CD20 CD21 CD22 CD25 CD26 CD28 CD30 CD33 CD36 CD37 CD38 CD40 CD44 CD52 CD55 CD56 CD59 CD70 CD79 CD80. CD81 CD103 CD105 CD134 CD137 CD138 CD152 or an antibody which binds to one or more tumor associated antigens or cell surface receptors disclosed in US Publication No. 20080171040 or US Publication No. 20080305044 and are incorporated in their entirety by reference erythropoietin osteoinductive factors immunotoxins a bone morphogenetic protein BMP an interferon such as interferon alpha beta and gamma colony stimulating factors CSFs e.g. M CSF GM CSF and G CSF interleukins ILs e.g. IL 1 to IL 10 superoxide dismutase T cell receptors surface membrane proteins decay accelerating factor viral antigen such as for example a portion of the HIV envelope transport proteins homing receptors addressins regulatory proteins integrins such as CD11a CD11b CD11c CD18 an ICAM VLA 4 and VCAM a tumor associated antigen such as HER2 HER3 or HER4 receptor endoglin c Met c kit 1GF1R PSGR NGEP PSMA PSCA TMEFF2 LGR5 B7H4 and fragments of any of the above listed polypeptides.

For example GM CSF a ligand growth factor which binds to myeloid cells can be used as a cell binding agent to diseased cells from acute myelogenous leukemia. IL 2 which binds to activated T cells can be used for prevention of transplant graft rejection for therapy and prevention of graft versus host disease and for treatment of acute T cell leukemia. MSH which binds to melanocytes can be used for the treatment of melanoma as can antibodies directed towards melanomas. Folic acid can be used to target the folate receptor expressed on ovarian and other tumors. Epidermal growth factor can be used to target squamous cancers such as lung and head and neck. Somatostatin can be used to target neuroblastomas and other tumor types.

Cancers of the breast and testes can be successfully targeted with estrogen or estrogen analogues or androgen or androgen analogues respectively as cell binding agents.

In one embodiment the cell binding agent is humanized monoclonal antibodies. In another embodiment the cell binding agent is huMy9 6 or other related antibodies which are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 342 110 and 7 557 189 incorporated herein by reference . In another embodiment the cell binding agent is an anti folate receptor antibody described in U.S. Provisional Application Nos. 61 307 797 61 346 595 61 413 172 and U.S. application Ser. No. 13 033 723 published as US 2012 0009181 A1 . The teachings of all these applications are incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

In certain embodiments the cell binding agent may be a monoclonal antibody or antigen binding portions thereof sharing sequences critical for antigen binding with an antibody disclosed herein such as huMy9 6 or its related antibodies described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 342 110 and 7 557 189 incorporated herein by reference . These derivative antibodies may have substantially the same or identical 1 light chain and or heavy chain CDR3 regions 2 light chain and or heavy chain CDR1 CDR2 and CDR3 regions or 3 light chain and or heavy chain regions compared to an antibody described herein. Sequences within these regions may contain conservative amino acid substitutions including substitutions within the CDR regions. Preferably there is no more than 1 2 3 4 or 5 conservative substitutions. In certain embodiments the derivative antibodies have a light chain region and or a heavy chain region that is at least about 90 95 99 or 100 identical to an antibody described herein. These derivative antibodies may have substantially the same binding specificity and or affinity to the target antigen compared to an antibody described herein. Preferably the Kand or kvalues of the derivative antibodies are within 10 fold either higher or lower 5 fold either higher or lower 3 fold either higher or lower or 2 fold either higher or lower of an antibody described herein. These derivative antibodies may be fully human antibodies or humanized antibodies or chimeric antibodies. The derivative antibodies may be produced according to any art recognized methods.

The present invention also provides cell binding agent drug conjugates comprising a CBA linked to one or more cytotoxic moieties described above. In one embodiment the conjugate may be represented by any one of the following formulas 

wherein CM is represented by any one of Formulas I IV and XIII XXVII CM is represented by any one of Formulas V VII and r is an integer from 1 to 10.

Examples of a conjugate include antibody cytotoxic moiety antibody fragment cytotoxic moiety epidermal growth factor EGF cytotoxic moiety melanocyte stimulating hormone MSH cytotoxic moiety thyroid stimulating hormone TSH cytotoxic moiety somatostatin cytotoxic moiety folate cytotoxic moiety estrogen cytotoxic moiety estrogen analogue cytotoxic moiety prostate specific membrane antigen inhibitor cytotoxic moiety matriptase inhibitor cytotoxic moiety designed ankyrin repeat proteins cytotoxic moiety androgen cytotoxic moiety and androgen analogue cytotoxic moiety. A representative synthesis scheme for the conjugate is shown in .

The covalent linker between a CBA and CM or CM can be cleaved at the site of the tumor unwanted proliferating cells to deliver the cytotoxic agent to its target in a number of ways. The linker can be cleaved for example by low pH hydrazone reductive environment disulfide proteolysis amide peptide link or through an enzymatic reaction esterase glycosidase .

In certain embodiments the conjugates described above may each comprise 1 10 cytotoxic moieties 2 9 cytotoxic moieties 3 8 cytotoxic moieties 4 7 cytotoxic moieties or 5 6 cytotoxic moieties. In other words r can be an integer from 1 to 10 2 to 9 2 to 8 2 to 7 2 to 6 or 2 5.

In certain embodiments the cell binding agent specifically binds to target cells selected from tumor cells virus infected cells microorganism infected cells parasite infected cells autoimmune cells activated cells myeloid cells activated T cells B cells melanocytes cells expressing CD4 CD6 CD19 CD20 CD22 CD30 CD33 CD37 CD38 CD40 CD44 CD56 EpCAM CanAg CALLA Her 2 antigens Her 3 antigens insulin growth factor receptor epidermal growth factor receptor or folate receptor.

In certain embodiments the CBA is an antibody a single chain antibody an antibody fragment a polycloncal antibody a monoclonal antibody a single chain monoclonal antibody a monoclonal antibody fragment a chimeric antibody a chimeric antibody fragment a domain antibody a domain antibody fragment a lymphokine a hormone a vitamin a growth factor a colony stimulating factor or a nutrient transport molecule. The CBA preferably binds to a target on the cell e.g. a cell surface receptor or a cell surface antigen or a cell surface molecule specifically.

In certain embodiments the CBA is a resurfaced antibody a resurfaced single chain antibody or a resurfaced antibody fragment.

In certain embodiments the CBA is a monoclonal antibody a single chain monoclonal antibody or a monoclonal antibody fragment thereof.

In certain embodiments the CBA is a humanized antibody a humanized single chain antibody or a humanized antibody fragment.

In certain embodiments the conjugates described above do not include the conjugate having a cytotoxic moiety represented by Formula XII.

In order to link a cytotoxic moiety of the present invention to a CBA the cytotoxic compounds described above comprise a reactive group which react with the CBA. Examples of the reactive group include a maleimide a haloacetamido SH SSR CHSH CH Me SH C Me SH NHR CHNHR NRNH COOH and COE wherein COE represents a reactive ester selected from but not limited to N hydroxysuccinimide ester N hydroxy sulfosuccinimide ester nitrophenyl e.g. 2 or 4 nitrophenyl ester dinitrophenyl e.g. 2 4 dinitrophenyl ester sulfo tetrafluorophenyl e.g. 4 sulfo 2 3 5 6 tetrafluorophenyl ester and pentafluorophenyl ester and wherein Ris H or a substituted or unsubstituted linear or branched alkyl having 1 to 4 carbon atoms and Ris selected from phenyl nitrophenyl e.g. 2 or 4 nitrophenyl dinitrophenyl e.g. 2 or 4 nitrophenyl carboxynitrophenyl e.g. 3 carboxy 4 nitrophenyl pyridyl or nitropyridyl e.g. 4 nitropyridyl wherein Ris H or a substituted or unsubstituted linear or branched alkyl having 1 to 4 carbon atoms and Ris selected from the group consisting of phenyl nitrophenyl dinitrophenyl carboxynitrophenyl pyridyl and nitropyridyl.

A representative process for preparing the cell binding agent drug conjugates of the present invention is shown in . The cytotoxic compounds described above can be conjugated with a CBA through a one step conjugation method. In representative examples are described wherein three compounds each terminating in an N hydroxysuccinimide ester is reacted directly with a cell binding agent such as an antibody generating the desired conjugate. In the cytotoxic compounds were directly treated with an antibody.

The cell binding agent drug conjugate may then be purified using any purification methods known in the art such as those described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 811 572 and US Publication No. 2006 0182750 both of which are incorporated herein by reference. For example the cell binding agent drug conjugate can be purified using tangential flow filtration adsorptive chromatography adsorptive filtration selective precipitation non absorptive filtration or combination thereof. Preferably tangential flow filtration TFF also known as cross flow filtration ultrafiltration and diafiltration and or adsorptive chromatography resins are used for the purification of the conjugates.

The number of cytotoxic molecules bound per antibody molecule can be determined spectrophotometrically by measuring the ratio of the absorbance at 280 nm and 330 nm. An average of 1 10 cytotoxic compounds antibody molecule s can be linked by the methods described herein. The preferred average number of linked cytotoxic compounds per antibody molecule is 2 5 and the most preferred is 2.5 4.0.

Processes for synthesizing the conjugates and precursors of the invention are also described in U.S. provisional patent application Nos. 61 443 092 and 61 443 062 both filed on Feb. 15 2011 U.S. provisional patent application No. 61 483 499 filed on May 6 2011 and U.S. utility application Ser. Nos. 13 397 205 and 13 397 195 filed on Feb. 15 2012 the entire contents of which applications including all drawings formulae synthesis schemes specifications and claims are incorporated herein by reference.

The cytotoxic compounds and conjugates thereof of the invention can be evaluated for their ability to suppress proliferation of various cancer cell lines in vitro. For example cell lines such as the human colon carcinoma line COLO 205 the rhabdomyosarcoma cell line RH 30 the multiple myeloma cell line MOLP 8 as well as the Namalwa KB NB4 HEL92.1.7 and HL60 QC cell lines used in can all be used for the assessment of cytotoxicity of these compounds and conjugates.

Methods useful for the assessment of cytotoxicity of these compounds and conjugates are known in the art. For example U.S. Ser. No. 13 397 195 filed on Feb. 15 2012 describes detailed experimental protocols for assessing cytotoxicity of benzodiazepine compounds and conjugates. See for example Examples 7 10 15 25 30 and 31 the entire contents of which is incorporated herein by reference.

In general cells to be evaluated such as the cells used in the experiments pertaining to the figures can be exposed to the compounds or conjugates for 1 5 days and the surviving fractions of cells measured in direct assays by known methods. ICvalues can then be calculated from the results of the assays. Alternatively or in addition an in vitro cell line sensitivity screen such as the one described by the U.S. National Cancer Institute see Voskoglou Nomikos et al. 20039 4227 4239 incorporated herein by reference can be used as one of the guides to determine the types of cancers that may be sensitive to treatment with the compounds or conjugates of the invention.

Examples of in vitro potency and target specificity of antibody cytotoxic moiety conjugates of the present invention are shown in . All of the conjugates are extremely cytotoxic on the antigen positive cancer cells with an IC50 in the low picomolar range.

The benzodiazepine compounds showed target specific potency being substantially less potent when blocked with unconjugated antibody. Conjugate 22 killed antigen positive HL60 QC cells with an ICvalue of 1.8 pM while the addition of an excess of unconjugated huMy9 6 antibody reduced this cytotoxic effect IC 1 nM demonstrating antigen specificity . In addition conjugates 23 and 24 are also highly potent towards HL60 ATCC cell line with ICvalues of 2.0 pM and 3.1 pM respectively .

In one aspect the present invention includes a composition e.g. a pharmaceutical composition comprising a cytotoxic compound described herein e.g. benzodiazepine a derivative thereof or a conjugate thereof and or a solvate a hydrate and or a salt thereof and a carrier a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier . The composition can further comprise a second therapeutic agent.

Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable carriers diluents and excipients are well known and can be determined by those of ordinary skill in the art as the clinical situation warrants.

Examples of suitable carriers diluents and or excipients include 1 Dulbecco s phosphate buffered saline pH about 7.4 containing or not containing about 1 mg mL to 25 mg mL human serum albumin 2 0.9 saline 0.9 w v NaCl and 3 5 w v dextrose and may also contain an antioxidant such as tryptamine and a stabilizing agent such as Tween 20.

The method for inducing cell death in selected cell populations can be practiced in vitro in vivo or ex vivo.

In another aspect the present invention provides a method for inducing cell death in selected cell populations comprising contacting target cells or tissue containing target cells with an effective amount of a conjugate comprising any of the cytotoxic compound cell binding agents of the present invention a salt or solvate thereof. The target cells are cells to which the cell binding agent can bind.

In yet another aspect the present invention includes a method of inhibiting abnormal cell growth or treating a proliferative disorder e.g. cancer in a mammal comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a composition containing a cytotoxic compounds described herein derivatives thereof conjugates thereof solvates thereof and salts thereof.

The cancer is selected from the group consisting of breast cancer colon cancer brain cancer prostate cancer kidney cancer pancreatic cancer ovarian cancer head and neck cancer melanoma colorectal cancer gastric cancer squamous cancer small cell lung cancer non small cell lung cancer testicular cancer Merkel cell carcinoma glioblastoma neuroblastoma cancers of lymphatic organs and hematological malignancy including Leukemia Acute lymphoblastic leukemia ALL Acute myelogenous leukemia AML Chronic lymphocytic leukemia CLL Chronic myelogenous leukemia CML Acute monocytic leukemia AMOL Hairy cell leukemia HCL T cell prolymphocytic leukemia T PLL Large granular lymphocytic leukemia Adult T cell leukemia Lymphoma small lymphocytic lymphoma SLL Hodgkin s lymphomas Nodular sclerosis Mixed cellularity Lymphocyte rich Lymphocyte depleted or not depleted and Nodular lymphocyte predominant Hodgkin lymphoma Non Hodgkin s lymphomas all subtypes Chronic lymphocytic leukemia Small lymphocytic lymphoma B cell prolymphocytic leukemia Lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma such as Waldenstr m macroglobulinemia Splenic marginal zone lymphoma Plasma cell neoplasms Plasma cell myeloma Plasmacytoma Monoclonal immunoglobulin deposition diseases Heavy chain diseases Extranodal marginal zone B cell lymphoma MALT lymphoma Nodal marginal zone B cell lymphoma NMZL Follicular lymphoma Mantle cell lymphoma Diffuse large B cell lymphoma Mediastinal thymic large B cell lymphoma Intravascular large B cell lymphoma Primary effusion lymphoma Burkitt lymphoma leukemia T cell prolymphocytic leukemia T cell large granular lymphocytic leukemia Aggressive NK cell leukemia Adult T cell leukemia lymphoma Extranodal NK T cell lymphoma nasal type Enteropathy type T cell lymphoma Hepatosplenic T cell lymphoma Blastic NK cell lymphoma Mycosis fungoides Sezary syndrome Primary cutaneous CD30 positive T cell lymphoproliferative disorders Primary cutaneous anaplastic large cell lymphoma Lymphomatoid papulosis Angioimmunoblastic T cell lymphoma Peripheral T cell lymphoma unspecified Anaplastic large cell lymphoma multiple myeloma plasma cell myeloma or Kahler s disease .

If desired other active agents such as other anti tumor agents may be administered along with the conjugate. In one embodiment the other anti tumor agent is selected from the group consisting of bortezomib revlimid paclitaxel docetaxel cisplatin carboplatin doxorubicin vinblastine rituximab alemtuzumab trastuzumab cetuximab panitumumab and bevacizumab.

This method is also useful for treating an autoimmune disorder e.g. rheumatoid arthritis multiple sclerosis and systemic lupus transplant rejection graft versus host disease renal transplant rejection liver transplant rejection lung transplant rejection cardiac transplant rejection and bone marrow transplant rejection immune deficiency inflammatory diseases e.g. myositis and pancreatitis destructive bone disorder infectious disease parasite infections e.g. giardiasis amoebiasis and schistosomiasis viral disease e.g. CMV infection HIV infection and AIDS fibrotic disease neurodegenerative disorder kidney disease depression anxiety stress phobias panic dysphoria psychiatric disorders or pain in a mammal.

Examples of in vitro uses include treatments of autologous bone marrow prior to their transplant into the same patient in order to kill diseased or malignant cells treatments of bone marrow prior to their transplantation in order to kill competent T cells and prevent graft versus host disease GVHD treatments of cell cultures in order to kill all cells except for desired variants that do not express the target antigen or to kill variants that express undesired antigen.

The conditions of non clinical in vitro use are readily determined by one of ordinary skill in the art.

Examples of clinical ex vivo use are to remove tumor cells or lymphoid cells from bone marrow prior to autologous transplantation in cancer treatment or in treatment of autoimmune disease or to remove T cells and other lymphoid cells from autologous or allogenic bone marrow or tissue prior to transplant in order to prevent GVHD. Treatment can be carried out as follows. Bone marrow is harvested from the patient or other individual and then incubated in medium containing serum to which is added the cytotoxic agent of the invention concentrations range from about 10 M to 1 pM for about 30 minutes to about 48 hours at about 37 C. The exact conditions of concentration and time of incubation i.e. the dose are readily determined by one of ordinary skill in the art. After incubation the bone marrow cells are washed with medium containing serum and returned to the patient intravenously according to known methods. In circumstances where the patient receives other treatment such as a course of ablative chemotherapy or total body irradiation between the time of harvest of the marrow and reinfusion of the treated cells the treated marrow cells are stored frozen in liquid nitrogen using standard medical equipment.

In certain embodiments a second chemotherapeutic agent is administered to the mammal sequentially or consecutively. In one embodiment the second chemotherapeutic agent is selected from the group consisting of bortezomib revlimid paclitaxel docetaxel cisplatin carboplatin doxorubicin vinblastine rituximab alemtuzumab trastuzumab cetuximab panitumumab and bevacizumab.

For clinical in vivo use the cytotoxic agent of the invention will be supplied as a solution or a lyophilized powder that are tested for sterility and for endotoxin levels. Examples of suitable protocols of conjugate administration are as follows. Conjugates are given weekly for 4 weeks as an intravenous bolus each week. Bolus doses are given in 50 to 1000 mL of normal saline to which 5 to 10 mL of human serum albumin can be added. Dosages will be 10 g to 2000 mg per administration intravenously range of 100 ng to 20 mg kg per day . After four weeks of treatment the patient can continue to receive treatment on a weekly basis. Specific clinical protocols with regard to route of administration excipients diluents dosages times etc. can be determined by one of ordinary skill in the art as the clinical situation warrants.

Cancer therapies and their dosages routes of administration and recommended usage are known in the art and have been described in such literature as the Physician s Desk Reference PDR . The PDR discloses dosages of the agents that have been used in treatment of various cancers. The dosing regimen and dosages of these aforementioned chemotherapeutic drugs that are therapeutically effective will depend on the particular cancer being treated the extent of the disease and other factors familiar to the physician of skill in the art and can be determined by the physician. The contents of the PDR are expressly incorporated herein in its entirety by reference. One of skill in the art can review the PDR using one or more of the following parameters to determine dosing regimen and dosages of the chemotherapeutic agents and conjugates that can be used in accordance with the teachings of this invention. These parameters include 

One skilled in the art of cytotoxic agents will readily understand that each of the cytotoxic agents described herein can be modified in such a manner that the resulting compound still retains the specificity and or activity of the starting compound. The skilled artisan will also understand that many of these compounds can be used in place of the cytotoxic agents described herein. Thus the cytotoxic agents of the present invention include analogues and derivatives of the compounds described herein.

All references cited herein and in the examples that follow are expressly incorporated by reference in their entireties.

The invention will now be illustrated by reference to non limiting examples. Unless otherwise stated all percents ratios parts etc. are by weight. All reagents were purchased from the Aldrich Chemical Co. New Jersey or other commercial sources. Nuclear Magnetic Resonance H NMR spectra were acquired on a Bruker 400 MHz instrument and mass spectra were acquired on a Bruker Daltonics Esquire 3000 instrument using electrospray ionization.

Compound 1 164 mg 75 purity 0.133 mmol was dissolved in absolute ethanol 1.0 ml and anhydrous dichloromethane 0.67 ml . The solution was cooled to 0 C. in an ice bath and sodium borohydride 2.52 mg 0.066 mmol was added resulting in a bright yellow solution. The reaction was stirred at 0 C. for 5 minutes and then at room temperature for 3 hours. The reaction was then cooled to 0 C. in an ice bath quenched with saturated ammonium chloride and diluted with dichloromethane. The organic layer was washed with brine dried over sodium sulfate and filtered through celite. The filtrate was evaporated under reduced pressure and the crude residue purified by RP HPLC C18 DI Water Acetonitrile to yield compound 2 26 mg 96 pure y 20 . MS m z found 967.1 M Na HO .

Compound 2 69 mg 0.058 mmol was dissolved in anhydrous 1 2 dichloroethane 5.8 mL and trimethyl tin hydroxide 210 mg 1.161 mmol was added. After refluxing overnight the mixture was cooled to room temperature and diluted with dichloromethane. The organic layer was washed with brine containing a few drops of 5 HCl and then brine alone. The organic layer was then dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and filtered. The filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure and purified by silica gel chromatography neat dichloromethane 5 methanol in dichloromethane to give compound 4. 25.5 mg 78 purity y 37.5 . MS m z found 935.5 M Na and 911.4 M H .

Compound 4 25 mg 78 purity 0.021 mmol was dissolved in anhydrous dichloromethane 0.75 mL and cooled to 0 C. in and ice bath. N hydroxy succinimide 7.37 mg 0.064 mmol and EDC.HCl 12.28 mg 0.064 mmol were added and the resulting mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 30 minutes and then overnight at room temperature. The reaction was diluted with dichloromethane washed with brine dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and filtered. The filtrate was evaporated under reduced pressure and the crude material was purified by RP HPLC C18 DI Water Acetonitrile to yield the final compound 5 9.1 mg y 42 . MS m z found 1050.5 M Na H2O .

As shown in a reaction containing 2.0 mg mL huMy9 6 antibody and 5 molar equivalents compound 5 pretreated with 5 fold excess of sodium bisulfite in 90 10 DMA water in 50 mM HEPES 4 2 hydroxyethyl 1 piperazine ethanesulfonic acid pH 8.5 buffer and 10 v v DMA N N Dimethylacetamide cosolvent was allowed to conjugate for 4 hours at 25 C.

Post reaction the conjugate was purified and buffer exchanged into 250 mM Glycine 10 mM Histidine 1 sucrose 0.01 Tween 20 50 M sodium bisulfite formulation buffer pH 6.2 using NAP desalting columns Illustra Sephadex G 25 DNA Grade GE Healthcare . Dialysis was performed in the same buffer for 4 hours at room temperature utilizing Slide a Lyzer dialysis cassettes ThermoScientific 20 000 MWCO .

The purified conjugate was found to have an average of 3.4 compound 5 linked per antibody by UV Vis using molar extinction coefficients 15 280 cmMand 30 115 cmMfor compound 5 and 207 000 cmMfor My9 6 antibody 98 monomer by size exclusion chromatography 

As shown in 1.5 mM CX1 1 linker compound 20 was mixed with 2 mM compound 18 free thiol and 10 mM DIPEA diisopropylethylamine in DMA N N Dimethylacetamide for 10 min at rt. 1 mM MPA 3 maleimido propionic acid was then added to react with the excess compound 18 for 5 min. As shown in the resultant compound i.e. compound 19 5 molar equivalents per antibody based on CX1 1 linker was added to a 2.0 mg mL huMy9 6 antibody solution buffered in 50 mM HEPES 4 2 hydroxyethyl 1 piperazine ethanesulfonic acid pH 8.5 and 10 v v DMA N N Dimethylacetamide cosolvent and allowed to react for 4 hours at 25 C.

Post reaction the conjugate was purified and buffer exchanged into 250 mM Glycine 10 mM Histidine 1 sucrose 0.01 Tween 20 50 M sodium bisulfite formulation buffer pH 6.2 using NAP desalting columns Illustra Sephadex G 25 DNA Grade GE Healthcare . Dialysis was performed in the same buffer for 4 hours at room temperature utilizing Slide a Lyzer dialysis cassettes ThermoScientific 20 000 MWCO .

The purified conjugate was found to have an average of 3.3 compound 18 linked per antibody by UV Vis using molar extinction coefficients 15 484 cmMand 30 115 cmMfor compound 18 and 207 000 cmMfor My9 6 antibody 97 monomer by size exclusion chromatography 

As shown in 1.5 mM sulfoNHS GMBS linker Pierce Co was mixed with 2 mM compound 18 free thiol and 10 mM DIPEA diisopropylethylamine in DMA N N Dimethylacetamide for 15 min at rt. 2 mM MPA 3 maleimido propionic acid was then added to react with the excess compound 18 for 5 min. As shown in the resultant compound i.e. compound 21 5.5 molar equivalents per antibody based on GMBS linker was added to a 2.0 mg mL huMy9 6 antibody solution in 50 mM HEPES 4 2 hydroxyethyl 1 piperazine ethanesulfonic acid pH 8.5 buffer and 15 v v DMA N N Dimethylacetamide cosolvent and allowed to react for 4 hours at 25 C.

Post reaction the conjugate was purified and buffer exchanged into 250 mM Glycine 10 mM Histidine 1 sucrose 0.01 Tween 20 50 M sodium bisulfite formulation buffer pH 6.2 using NAP desalting columns Illustra Sephadex G 25 DNA Grade GE Healthcare . Dialysis was performed in the same buffer for 4 hours at room temperature utilizing Slide a Lyzer dialysis cassettes ThermoScientific 20 000 MWCO .

The purified conjugate was found to have an average of 2.9 compound 18 linked per antibody by UV Vis using molar extinction coefficients 8330 nm 15 484 cm 1M 1 and 8280 nm 30 115 cm 1M 1 for compound 18 and 8280 nm 207 000 cm 1M 1 for My9 6 antibody 96 monomer by size exclusion chromatography 

