---

title: Method and system for aggregating messages based on a point of interest and storage medium
abstract: A method for aggregating messages based on a point of interest is provided, the method including: acquiring an instruction to trigger a point of interest; acquiring a region unit in which the point of interest is located from an electronic map which is divided into a plurality of region units in advance, and acquiring a predetermined number of region units including the region unit in which the point of interest is located by taking the region unit in which the point of interest is located as a center; acquiring messages issued within the predetermined number of region units; and generating a message aggregating page including a map indicative of the point of interest based on the acquired messages and displaying the acquired messages on the message aggregating page. A system for aggregating messages based on a point of interest is also provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09357347&OS=09357347&RS=09357347
owner: Tencent Technology (Shenzhen) Company Limited
number: 09357347
owner_city: 
owner_country: CN
publication_date: 20150124
---
This application is a U.S. continuation application under 35 U.S.C. 111 a claiming priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 and 365 c to International Application PCT CN2013 080111 filed on Jul. 25 2013 which claims priority benefit of Chinese patent application No. 201210259577.5 filed by the applicant Tencent Technology Shenzhen Company Limited on Jul. 25 2012 and entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR AGGREGATING MESSAGES BASED ON A POINT OF INTEREST the contents of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety for all intended purposes.

The disclosure relates to Internet communication field and particularly to a method and system for aggregating messages based on a Point of Interest POI .

Micro blog is a platform for message sharing propagation and acquisition based on user relationships. A user can create a personal community via WEB WAP and various client terminals to instantly update messages by words and share the messages.

The popularity of the micro blog on Internet makes messages being propagated quicker and more influential. A present micro blog allows the user to upload information about a point of interest at the same time of issuing a message wherein the information about the point of interest is for example an address a name a telephone number and or an appearance picture of the point of interest or only a part of an electronic map containing the point of interest. However if another user wants to further learn about the point of interest for example other micro blog messages about the point of interest users at the point of interest a local distance to the point of interest and so on the present micro blog fails to provide a corresponding entry.

The disclosure is directed to solve a technical problem that traditional micro blog products lack an adequate capability of aggregating messages based on a point of interest and thus enlarge the message capacity of a micro blog and expand functions of the micro blog.

An embodiment of the disclosure provides a method for aggregating messages based on a point of interest including acquiring an instruction to trigger a point of interest acquiring a region unit in which the point of interest is located from an electronic map which is divided into a plurality of region units in advance and acquiring a predetermined number of region units including the region unit in which the point of interest is located by taking the region unit in which the point of interest is located as a center acquiring messages issued within the predetermined number of region units and generating a message aggregating page including a map indicative of the point of interest based on the acquired messages and displaying the acquired messages on the message aggregating page.

An embodiment of the disclosure further provides a system for aggregating messages based on a point of interest including an instruction acquiring module configured to acquire an instruction to trigger a point of interest a unit acquiring module configured to acquire a region unit in which the point of interest is located from an electronic map which is divided into a plurality of region units in advance and acquire a predetermined number of region units including the region unit in which the point of interest is located by taking the region unit in which the point of interest is located as a center a message acquiring module configured to acquire messages issued within the predetermined number of region units and a page generating and displaying module configured to generate a message aggregating page including a map indicative of the point of interest based on the acquired messages and displaying the acquired messages on the message aggregating page.

The method and system for aggregating messages based on a point of interest provided by the disclosure can enter the message aggregating page by triggering the point of interest acquire more messages from neighborhoods of the point of interest and further enlarge the message capacity of the micro blog and expand the functions of the micro blog.

In order to further illustrate technical means and functions employed by the disclosure a method and system for aggregating messages based on a point of interest provided in the disclosure and specific implementations processes steps structures characteristics and functions thereof are described in detail below in combination with accompany drawings and prefer embodiments.

The above and other technical contents characteristics and functions of the disclosure will become apparent from the following specific descriptions of the prefer embodiments referring to the accompany drawings. The technical means and functions employed by the disclosure can be further learned from the specific implementations. However the accompany drawings are merely for reference and illustration and are not intended to limit the disclosure.

The method and system for aggregating messages based on a point of interest provided by the disclosure can enter a message aggregating page by triggering a point of interest acquire more messages from neighborhoods of the point of interest and thus further enlarge the message capacity of a micro blog and expand functions of the micro blog. An expanded function of the micro blog is called passing through . For example when a user views a micro blog issuing a message that the whole of Wuhan city is filled with smoke due to a chemical factory exploding if the user wants to learn more information to see whether there are other people talking about this event near the message of the micro blog then he can click a point of interest loaded by the message of the micro blog and pass through a message aggregating page displaying more messages from the neighborhoods of the point of interest. Furthermore for example if the user views that the point of interest of a micro blog message is an ancient town of Fenghuang and the user just then plans to travel in Fenghuang then he can click the point of interest to pass through to view messages from neighborhoods of Fenghuang in a picture mode. Below the disclosure is further described in detail in combination with the accompany drawings.

Usually the point of interest is a landmark or position in a geographic region of a site such as a building a road a restaurant a company and so on which records at least latitude and longitude coordinates and can be stored in a database of an electronic map. Of course the point of interest can also record its corresponding attributes such as its administrative division category and so on. When the user of the micro blog loads information about the point of interest in a message issued by himself the point of interest for example Science and technology No. 1 middle road shown in is displayed on a message page of the micro blog along with the message. The system can enter subsequent steps upon acquiring the instruction to trigger the point of interest by clicking or selecting the point of interest.

Step S a region unit in which the point of interest is located is acquired from the electronic map which is divided into a plurality of region units in advance and a predetermined number of region units including the region unit in which the point of interest is located are acquired by taking the region unit in which the point of interest is located as a center.

Step 2n 1 2n 1 region units are selected from the electronic map by taking the region unit in which the latitude and longitude coordinates of the point of interest are located as the center wherein n is an integer. For example the region units are square regions having an edge of 1 km or circular regions having a radius of 1 km. Other lengths such as 2 km 10 km and so on can also be selected and the edge and the radius are actual distances calculated by the scale of the electronic map. For example if n is 2 i.e. there are 25 region units then the region unit in which the latitude and longitude coordinates of the point of interest are located is a center region unit of the 25 region units.

Both messages carrying information about the point of interest per se and messages carrying information about neighborhoods of the point of interest can be returned from a micro blog server to a micro blog client of the user. So in step S the messages issued within for example the above 2n 1 2n 1 region units can be acquired.

Step S a message aggregating page including a map indicative of the point of interest is generated based on the acquired messages and the acquired messages are displayed on the message aggregating page.

Step S can further include displaying the messages within the 2n 1 2n 1 region units on the message aggregating page with a predetermined sequence.

The predetermined sequence is a chronological sequence from near to far or an actual geographic distance sequence from near to far to the point of interest. In the embodiment the predetermined sequence is to display messages from the point of interest per se and from the neighborhoods of the point of interest with the chronological sequence from near to far or to firstly display messages from the point of interest per se in the 25 region units and secondly display messages from region units neighboring the region unit in which the point of interest is located and so on.

The messages can be displayed with the picture mode or a word mode. In the picture mode pictures are abstracted from the ones containing a picture in the acquired messages and a plurality of the abstracted pictures are typeset and then displayed as shown in . In the word mode word information is abstracted from the acquired messages and the messages are typeset and displayed with the word mode as shown in . Preferably in the message aggregating page a display mode of transforming between the word mode and the picture mode is utilized. For example a transforming trigger point is provided on the message aggregating page the messages appear in the format of broadcast in the case that broadcast is selected and the messages appear in the format of pictures in the case that see pictures is selected.

The method for aggregating messages based on a point of interest provided in the embodiment is mainly intended to solve the technical problem that traditional micro blog products lack an adequate capability of aggregating the messages based the point of interest and thus can enlarge the message capacity of a micro blog and expand functions of the micro blog which facilitate users more deeply interacting with each other and more quickly learning local information in real time.

Step S an instruction to trigger a point of interest is acquired. This step is the same as step S in the first embodiment and thus will not be redundantly described.

Each point of interest has latitude and longitude coordinates and the position of the user itself i.e. the position of the client terminal have latitude and longitude coordinates. The geographical distance from the point of interest to the user can be calculated by calculating a route between coordinates of them. The geographical distance is a geographic distance reachable by public transport or by walking rather than a direct line distance.

Step S a region unit in which the point of interest is located is acquired from an electronic map which is divided into a plurality of region units in advance and a predetermined number of region units including the region unit in which the point of interest is located are acquired by taking the region unit in which the point of interest is located as a center. This step is the same as step S in the first embodiment and thus will not be redundantly described.

Step S messages issued within the predetermined number of region units are acquired. This step is the same as step S in the first embodiment and thus will not be redundantly described.

Step S a message aggregating page including a map indicative of the point of interest is generated based on the acquired messages and the acquired messages and the actual geographical distance from the point of interest to the client terminal are displayed on the message aggregating page.

In step S the actual geographical distance from the point of interest to the client terminal can be displayed on the message aggregating page by presenting an electronic map as shown in .

The method for aggregating messages based on a point of interest provided in the embodiment is intended to solve the technical problem that traditional micro blog products lack an adequate capability of aggregating messages based a point of interest and thus can enlarge the message capacity of a micro blog and expand functions of the micro blog which facilitate users more deeply interacting with each other and more quickly learning local information in real time.

As shown in a system for aggregating messages based on a point of interest which is configured to implement the above method for aggregating messages based on a point of interest is provided in a third embodiment of the invention. The system includes an instruction acquiring module a unit acquiring module a message acquiring module and a page generating and displaying module . The instruction acquiring module is configured to acquire an instruction to trigger a point of interest. The unit acquiring module is configured to acquire a region unit in which the point of interest is located from an electronic map which is divided into a plurality of region units in advance and acquire a predetermined number of region units including the region unit in which the point of interest is located by taking the region unit in which the point of interest is located as a center. The message acquiring module is configured to acquire messages issued within the predetermined number of region units. The page generating and displaying module is configured to generate a message aggregating page including a map indicative of the point of interest based on the acquired messages and display the acquired messages on the message aggregating page.

Preferably as shown in the unit acquiring module includes a measuring module and a selecting module . The measuring module is configured to measure latitude and longitude coordinates of the point of interest. The selecting module is configured to select 2n 1 2n 1 region units from the electronic map by taking the region unit in which the altitude and longitude coordinates of the point of interest are located as the center wherein n is an integer.

The page generating and displaying module includes an sequencing module configured to sequence the messages within the 2n 1 2n 1 region units with a predetermined sequence.

The predetermined sequence can be a chronological sequence in which messages from the point of interest per se and neighborhoods of the point of interest are displayed chronologically from near to far or an sequence that the messages from the point of interest per se are displayed firstly and then messages from the neighborhoods of the point of interest are displayed and so on.

Preferably the page generating and displaying module further includes a picture abstracting module and a picture typesetting module . The picture abstracting module is configured to abstract pictures from the ones containing a picture in the acquired messages and the picture typesetting module is configured to typeset a plurality of the abstracted pictures.

Preferably the page generating and displaying module further includes a word abstracting module and a word typesetting module . The word abstracting module is configured to abstract word information from the acquired messages and the word typesetting module is configured for typeset the messages in a word mode.

Preferably the page generating and displaying module further includes a transforming module configured to transform the display mode of the messages between the word mode and a picture mode.

The system for aggregating messages based on a point of interest provided in the embodiment is intended to solve the technical problem that traditional micro blog products lack an adequate capability of aggregating messages based on the point of interest and thus can enlarge the message capacity of a micro blog and expand functions of the micro blog which facilitate users more deeply interacting with each other and more quickly learning local information in real time.

As shown in a system for aggregating messages based on a point of interest which is configured to implement the method for aggregating messages based on a point of interest is provided in a fourth embodiment of the invention. The system includes an instruction acquiring module a calculating module a unit acquiring module a message acquiring module and a page generating and displaying module . Similar to the third embodiment of the disclosure the instruction acquiring module is configured to acquire an instruction to trigger a point of interest the unit acquiring module is configured to acquire a region unit in which a point of interest is located from an electronic map which is divided into a plurality of region units in advance and acquire a predetermined number of region units including the region unit in which the point of interest is located by taking the region unit in which the point of interest is located as a center and the message acquiring module is configured to acquire messages issued within the predetermined number of region units which are not redundantly described herein. In the embodiment the calculating module is configured to calculate an actual geographic distance from the point of interest to a client terminal. The page generating and displaying module is configured to generate a message aggregating page including a map indicative of the point of interest based on the acquired messages and display the acquired messages and the actual geographic distance from the point of interest to the client terminal on the message aggregating page.

The system for aggregating messages based on a point of interest provided in the embodiment is intended to solve the technical problem that traditional micro blog products lack an adequate capability of aggregating messages based on the point of interest and thus can enlarge the message capacity of a micro blog and expand functions of the micro blog which facilitate users more deeply interacting with each other and more quickly learning local information in real time.

To sum up the methods and systems for aggregating messages based on a point of interest provided in the disclosure can enter the message aggregating page by triggering the point of interest acquire more messages from neighborhoods of the point of interest and thus enlarge the message capacity of the micro blog and expand functions of the micro blog.

The methods and apparatuses provided by the embodiments of the disclosure can be implemented by hardware computer readable instructions or the combination of hardware and computer readable instructions. The computer readable instructions employed in the embodiments are stored in a readable storage medium by multiple processors wherein the readable storage medium is for example a CD ROM a DVD an optical disk a soft disk a magnetic tape a RAM a ROM or another suitable storage device. Alternatively at least a part of the computer readable instructions can be replaced by a specific hardware for example a custom integrated circuit a gate array a FPGA a PLD a computer having a specific function and so son.

An embodiment of the disclosure provides a computer readable storage medium configured to store instructions enabling a computer to implement the methods described herein. Specifically the system or device provided by the embodiment includes a storage medium storing computer readable program codes for implementing functions of any one of the above embodiments and the system or device or CPU or MPU is capable of reading and executing the program codes stored in the storage medium.

In this case the computer codes read from the storage medium can implement any one of the above embodiments and the program codes and the storage medium storing the instruction codes are a part of the technical solution.

The storage medium for providing the program codes include a soft disk a hard disk a magnetic optical disk an optical disk for example CD ROM CD R CD RW DVD ROM DVD RAM DVD RW DVD RW a magnetic disk a flash card a ROM and so on. Optionally the program codes can also downloaded from a server computer via a communication network.

It should be noted that for the program codes executed by the computer at least a part of operations implemented by the program codes can be implemented by an operating system on the computer to implement the technical solution of any one of the above embodiments wherein the computer executes instructions based on the program codes.

Furthermore the program codes in the storage medium are written in a memory wherein the memory is located in an extension plate inserted in the computer or an extension unit connected to the computer. In the embodiment CPU in the extension plate or the extension unit executes at least a part of operations based on the program codes to implement the technical solution of any one of the embodiments.

