---

title: Apparatus and method for secure over the air programming of a communication device
abstract: A system that incorporates the subject disclosure may perform, for example, receiving an over-the-air programming message that is utilizing a hypertext transfer protocol where the over-the-air programming message including programming data for use by the mobile communication device, converting the over-the-air programming message to a short message service transport protocol to generate an adjusted message that includes the programming data, and providing the adjusted message to a universal integrated circuit card of the mobile communication device via a baseband proxy operating in a device processor of the mobile communication device. Other embodiments are disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09628587&OS=09628587&RS=09628587
owner: AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I, L.P.
number: 09628587
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151110
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 069 908 filed Nov. 1 2013 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The subject disclosure relates to an apparatus and method for secure over the air programming of a communication device.

Electronic devices are being utilized with more frequency to conduct various types of transactions and exchanges of information. The electronic devices can be provisioned with programming data including an initial provisioning and subsequent provisioning s . The provisioning can sometimes include receiving the programming data from a remote source.

The subject disclosure describes among other things illustrative embodiments in which Over The Air programming OTA messages can be securely delivered to a communication device s . The secure delivery can be performed using a Network OTA Interworking Function N OIF that communicates with the communication device. The communication device can be a mobile device that includes a User OTA Interworking Function U OIF that operates in a Secure Device Processor SDP of the mobile device. The U OIF can be in communication with a secure element hereinafter referred to as a Universal Integrated Circuit Card UICC of the mobile device such as via a baseband proxy e.g. operating in a device processor of the mobile device . In one or more embodiments the U OIF the UICC and the device processor including the baseband proxy can be separate but in communication with each other. The UICC can be a highly secure computing platform for storing secrets such as encryption keys and authentication credentials and can host and execute applets. The SDP can be a processor that is logically and or physically separate from the device processor and can offer more security than the device processor but not as much security as the UICC. Examples of an SDP include a Trusted Execution Environment TEE and an embedded Secure Element eSE . In one or more embodiments the U OIF in conjunction with the N OIF can provide a secure means for delivering OTA messages including various programming data to the UICC to enable the UICC to utilize the programming data e.g. executing software updates adjusting configuration settings or parameters and so forth .

In one or more embodiments SMS based OTA messages between a UICC and an OTA server can be converted from SMS to IP e.g. HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP transmitted via HTTP and converted back to SMS e.g. SMPP . This can be performed through use of various devices including the N OIF and the U OIF. In one embodiment the baseband proxy of the mobile device can facilitate delivery of the OTA messages responses such as by acting as an intermediate component between the U OIF and the UICC which is capable of performing additional conversion of the OTA message. In one or more embodiments additional security mechanisms can be provided for SMS based OTA messages. In one or more embodiments network based traffic management can be provided for SMS based OTA messages. In one or more embodiments network and device functionality can be managed remotely. In one or more embodiments multiple OTA servers can be supported. In one or more embodiments legacy OTA server processes such as 03.48 encryption techniques can be supported.

In one or more embodiments HTTP based OTA communications can be utilized between SMS based legacy UICCs and OTA servers. In one or more embodiments interworking functions N OIFs and U OIFs can be downloaded to appropriate devices to enable converting SMS based OTA messages to IP for transport via HTTP. In one or more embodiments a network based InterWorking Function IWF can be provided for traffic management of SMS based OTA messages. In one or more embodiments the IWFs can provide an additional layer of security for SMS based OTA. In one or more embodiments an SDP can be utilized as or otherwise provisioned with an IWF within the device. In one or more embodiments a baseband proxy can be used to communicate between the U OIF and the UICC. In one or more embodiments remote management of the IWFs can be performed.

One embodiment of the subject disclosure is a method including receiving by a network interworking function operating in a server an over the air programming message that is utilizing a short message service transport protocol where the over the air programming message includes programming data for use by a mobile communication device. The method can include converting by the network interworking function the over the air programming message to a hypertext transfer protocol to generate a first adjusted message that includes the programming data. The method can include registering by the network interworking function an internet protocol address associated with a user interworking function operating in a secure device processor of the mobile communication device where the registering of the internet protocol address is based on a mutual authentication of the network interworking function and the user interworking function utilizing a first keyset. The method can include providing by the network interworking function the first adjusted message to the user interworking function to enable the user interworking function to convert the first adjusted message to the short message service transport protocol to generate a second adjusted message that includes the programming data where the providing of the first adjusted message to the user interworking function further enables the user interworking function to provide the second adjusted message to a universal integrated circuit card via a baseband proxy operating in a device processor of the mobile communication device and where the secure device processor the universal integrated circuit card and the device processor are separate from each other and are in communication with each other.

One embodiment of the subject disclosure includes a computer readable storage device comprising computer instructions which responsive to being executed by a user interworking function of a secure device processor of a mobile communication device cause the user interworking function to perform operations including receiving from a network interworking function operating in a server an over the air programming message that is utilizing a hypertext transfer protocol where the over the air programming message includes programming data for use by the mobile communication device. The user interworking function can convert the over the air programming message to a short message service transport protocol to generate an adjusted message that includes the programming data. The user interworking function can provide the adjusted message to a universal integrated circuit card of the mobile communication device via a baseband proxy operating in a device processor of the mobile communication device where the secure device processor the universal integrated circuit card and the device processor are separate from each other and are in communication with each other.

One embodiment of the subject disclosure is a method that includes receiving by a universal integrated circuit card of a mobile communication device an over the air programming message including programming data. The over the air programming message can be received from a user interworking function of a secure device processor of the mobile communication device via a baseband proxy operating in a device processor of the mobile communication device. The secure device processor the universal integrated circuit card and the device processor can be separate from each other and can be in communication with each other. The over the air programming message can be received by the user interworking function in a hypertext transfer protocol and can be converted to a short message service transport protocol. The method can include generating by the universal integrated circuit card a response based on the over the air programming message. The method can include providing by the universal integrated circuit card the response to the user interworking function via the baseband proxy to enable the user interworking function to convert the response to the hypertext transfer protocol to generate a first adjusted response where the providing of the response to the user interworking function further enables the user interworking function to provide the first adjusted response to a network interworking function operating in a server for conversion to a second adjusted response that is in the short message service transport protocol.

In accordance with an embodiment of the disclosure depicts a system that includes a communication device connected to or otherwise in communication with a network and provided with a secure services platform enabling authentication of other communication devices encrypted communication with those devices and or secure communications related to OTA messages. Device can be loaded with the U OIF to enable or otherwise facilitate processing of messages and responses related to OTA.

It will be appreciated that the communication device may be any device including a user device which has a UICC and a secure device processor. The term user in this example refers to a human user of the communication device. However in other embodiments the user can be a machine that exchanges data with the communication device after being authenticated to the communication device. Communication device can include a device processor a SDP and a UICC . The UICC can be various types of smart cards including a Subscriber Identification Module SIM card or other type of secure element. The UICC can be a secure computing platform and can offer a high level of security for storing encryption keys authentication credentials and the like. The UICC may be removable from the device. In other embodiments the UICC may be embedded in the device and not removable. In other embodiments the UICC can be placed on a memory card or an embedded chip.

The SDP can be logically and or physically separate from the device processor and can be connected to both the device processor and the UICC . In this embodiment the SDP can offer a higher level of security than the device processor and can store and execute secure applications. The SDP can for example run applications in a TEE. The UICC and SDP together can form a secure services platform resident on the device . In this embodiment UICC SDP and device processor can each have a security level associated therewith and the security level associated with the SDP can be intermediate between that of the UICC and that of the device processor . The SDP and UICC can use mutual authentication as described in more detail below.

The UICC and SDP can communicate with a remote management function server located remotely from device . The Remote Management Server RMS can be a platform for provisioning and or managing applications in the UICC and SDP . The RMS can also manage data such as keys credentials and so forth that are used by the applications. Examples of remote management servers are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 679 479 filed on Nov. 16 2012 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 680 680 filed on Nov. 19 2012 the disclosures of both of which are hereby incorporated by reference. In one or more embodiments the remote management server can provision other devices such as providing keys to the N OIF.

In this embodiment user device can be a wireless communication device connected to a cellular network . Network can also be other types of networks operating according to various communication protocols such as a WiFi network. In other embodiments device can be connected to other devices via a wired connection through a computer. In still other embodiments user devices can communicate with each other using Bluetooth infrared communications IRDa and or near field communications NFC . A communication session between user devices wherein information is transferred between the users can be effected by a wide variety of arrangements. A secure application server SAS can be used in some embodiments to establish a secure communication session between devices. However in some embodiments a secure application server may not be used where the communication session is established in a peer to peer manner such as in Bluetooth IRDa or NFC.

System enables components of the secure services platform e.g. a U OIF of the SDP to perform operations including receiving from an N OIF operating in a server an OTA message that is utilizing a HTTP where the OTA message includes programming data for use by the mobile communication device converting the OTA message to a SMS transport protocol e.g. SMPP to generate an adjusted message that includes the programming data and providing the adjusted message to the UICC of the mobile communication device via the baseband proxy operating of the mobile communication device. In this example the baseband proxy can be operating in a device processor of the mobile communication device where the SDP the UICC and the device processor are separate from each other and are in communication with each other. In one embodiment an IP address can be registered with the N OIF where the IP address is associated with the U OIF and where the registering of the IP address is based on a mutual authentication of the N OIF and the U OIF utilizing a first keyset e.g. OTA IWF keyset that is provided to the U OIF and the N OIF by a remote management server. In one embodiment the first keyset is provided to the U OIF utilizing a remote management keyset. In one embodiment authentication of the U OIF with the baseband proxy can be performed prior to the providing of the adjusted message to the UICC. In one embodiment the authenticating with the baseband proxy can be based on a second keyset. In one embodiment a response that is utilizing the SMS transport protocol can be received by the U OIF from the UICC via the baseband proxy where the response is received from the universal integrated circuit card via the baseband proxy the response can be converted to HTTP to generate an adjusted response and the adjusted response can be provided to the N OIF. In one embodiment the response can be encrypted e.g. by the U OIF utilizing the first keyset e.g. OTA IWF keyset that is provided to the U OIF and the N OIF by a remote management server where the encrypting is performed prior to the generating of the adjusted response. In one embodiment the OTA message can be decrypted e.g. by the U OIF utilizing a first keyset that is provided to the U OIF and the N OIF by a remote management server where the decrypting is performed prior to the generating of the adjusted message.

System enables components of the secure services platform e.g. the UICC to perform operations including receiving by the UICC from a U OIF of the SDP via a baseband proxy an OTA message including programming data where the SDP the UICC and the device processor executing the baseband proxy are separate from each other and are in communication with each other and where the OTA message is in HTTP and converted to an SMS transport protocol e.g. SMPP . In this example a response can be generated at the UICC based on the OTA message. The response can be provided to the U OIF via the baseband proxy to enable the U OIF to convert the response such as from SMS to HTTP to generate a first adjusted response where the providing of the response to the U OIF enables the U OIF to provide the first adjusted response to a N OIF operating in a server for conversion to a second adjusted response that is in SMS transport protocol. In one embodiment the UICC can decrypt the OTA message utilizing a keyset where the keyset is stored by the UICC and an OTA server that originated the OTA programming message. In another embodiment the keyset is not stored by or otherwise accessible to the U OIF and or the N OIF. System illustrates a single N OIF and a single OTA server however the exemplary embodiments can utilize any number of N OIFs and OTA servers. Additionally the N OIF can be executed on a server that is different from the OTA server or the N OIF and the OTA server function can be implemented at the same server.

The RMS can perform a remote provisioning and management function to load applications content and or other information e.g. various keysets into the UICC and or SDP . In this embodiment the RMS can provision the authentication management function and real time encryption key generator on the UICC and can provision the real time encryption engine on the SDP . This can be done securely by the use of one or more remote management keysets. In one embodiment before the secure services platform can be used for communication the SDP can be authenticated by the UICC . In one embodiment this can be done using a UICC SDP keyset. The UICC SDP keyset may be provisioned remotely by the RMS or locally by an authorized user. In this embodiment after the UICC and SDP are mutually authenticated using the UICC SDP keyset they can communicate via a signaling path within the secure services platform . The UICC SDP keyset may be used for secure communication during initial loading and provisioning. However the keys being utilized may be different. In one embodiment the path between the UICC and the SDP can go through the device processor rather than directly between the UICC and the SDP.

In this embodiment of the secure services platform enables processing messages and responses related to OTA. These messages and responses can be converted between SMS transport protocol e.g. SMPP and IP protocol e.g. HTTP so that the end points of the communication e.g. the UICC and the OTA server receive the programming data and or the response related to the programming data. Various keysets can be distributed between pairs of devices or components such as providing an SDP keyset to both of the U OIF and the baseband proxy providing an OTA IWF keyset to both of the N OIF and the U OIF and or providing an OTA server keyset to both the OTA server and the UICC. In one embodiment the provisioning of one or more of these keysets can be performed by the remote management server such as through use of remote management keysets.

Referring to a system is depicted which illustrates a secure process for providing messages and responses related to OTA. System can include providing IP based OTA between legacy UICCs and OTA servers which may not support it. A method of delivering SMS based OTA messages to a UICC via an IP network is provided. SMS based messages can be sent from an OTA server via a suitable SMS based transport protocol such as SMPP to an N OIF which converts the message to HTTP. The N OIF can queue the message and schedule it for transmission to a U OIF which may reside in an SDP. The U OIF can convert the message back to SMS transport protocol e.g. SMPP and can transmit to the UICC such as via a baseband proxy. The U OIF can provide a response related to or otherwise generated because of the receiving of the OTA message back to the N OIF via HTTP where the N OIF can correlate this response with the initial transmission. The N OIF can provide reliable transport to the U OIF and can retransmit the message if necessary. In one embodiment the N OIF can provide additional encryption for the OTA message and can decrypt a response to the OTA message.

In one embodiment the N OIF can transmit and receive messages to from an OTA server for SMS based OTA messages. This can include converting protocols for transmission to and from the OTA server e.g. HTTP to from SMS such as SMPP . In one embodiment the N OIF can transmit and receive messages to from a U OIF for SMS based OTA messages. The N OIF can manage the communication path to the UICC including providing a message queue supporting prioritization of messages providing a scheduler function e.g. schedules packets for transmission supporting transmission through retransmission and a retransmission timer and or providing response correlation such as tracking and correlating responses for each transmission. In one embodiment the N OIF can support transport security between itself and a U OIF including encryption and authentication via an OTA IWF keyset. In another embodiment the N OIF may connect to multiple OTA servers.

In one embodiment the SDP can contain or otherwise execute the U OIF. The U OIF can transmit and receive messages to from a N OIF and can support transport security between itself and the N OIF including encryption and authentication via an OTA IWF keyset. In one or more embodiments the U OIF can transmit and receive messages to from the UICC via a baseband proxy and can convert protocols for transmission to and from the UICC e.g. HTTP to from SMS such as SMPP . In one embodiment the U OIF can register an IP address with the N OIF and can authenticate with the baseband proxy using an SDP keyset.

In one embodiment the baseband proxy can communicate with the U OIF via an SMS API can communicate with the UICC via CAT STK and or can authenticate the U OIF. In one embodiment a remote management server can manage the applications on the SDP and can manage the OTA IWF keys which are loaded into the N OIF and the U OIF. For example these loading operations can be done securely by the use of one or more Remote Management Keysets. These keysets can be used to mutually authenticate the UICC and SDP with the remote management server and to enable encryption between them.

Referring to system is depicted which illustrates loading or otherwise provisioning the end user device s with the applications that are utilized by the secure services platform for performing the secure OTA messaging process. In one embodiment the U OIF can be loaded remotely. For instance if the application has not been loaded at the time of manufacture then at the remote management server downloads the U OIF to the SDP of the UE. For instance remote management keysets can be used to securely transmit information from the remote management server to the UE s . This process can include mutual authentication and or encryption. At the U OIF can authenticate with the baseband proxy using a different SDP Keyset. At the remote management server can download one or more OTA IWF keys to the U OIF. For instance this can be performed using a remote management keyset. At the remote management server can provide the OTA IWF key to the N OIF. At the U OIF can register its IP address with the N OIF. This process can include mutual authentication and or encryption using the IWF OTA keys.

Referring to system is depicted which illustrates a process for securely communicating messages and responses related to OTA. The process can commence with the OTA server forwarding an OTA message to the N OIF for transmission to the UICC of the mobile device. This can be part of a group provisioning effort such as a software update that is to be distributed to a group of mobile devices. At the OTA server can prepare a message for delivery to the UICC and sends it to the N OIF. The OTA server may encrypt the message using an OTA server keyset e.g. 03.48 . At the N OIF can prepare the message for transmission to the U OIF. This may involve the following verifying that the UICC is registered and reachable via HTTP converting the message protocol to HTTP and or encryption using an OTA IWF Keyset e.g. SCP81 . As described elsewhere the message can include various programming data including one or more electronic files. At the U OIF can receive the message and can check to see if it is encrypted with an OTA IWF Keyset. If it is not encrypted with this key the U OIF can act upon the message as described in Step . At the U OIF can decrypt the message using its OTA IWF key. At the U OIF can convert the message from HTTP to SMS e.g. SMPP and can schedule it for transmission to a UICC terminating entity via the baseband proxy. In one embodiment once the message is ready for transmission the U OIF can schedule it for transmission transmit it at the scheduled time track the response from the UICC and retransmit if necessary. At the message can be transmitted to the UICC terminating entity via the baseband proxy. At the UICC terminating entity can receive the message and can perform actions based on the content of the message e.g. adjusting configuration parameters executing software updates storing settings and so forth . If the message is encrypted with an OTA server key the UICC terminating entity can decrypt it using the OTA server key stored by or otherwise accessible to the UICC . The UICC terminating entity may respond to the message. At if a response is provided it can be provided through the baseband proxy to the U OIF. At the U OIF can convert the message to HTTP and may encrypt it using an OTA IWF key prior to transmission back to the N OIF. At the N OIF may perform the following actions e.g. before forwarding the response to the OTA server decrypt the message with an OTA IWF key correlate or otherwise map the response with the initial message and or convert the message to SMS e.g. SMPP . At the OTA server can receive the response to the OTA message that it originated.

In one embodiment at the N OIF can encrypt the OTA message. The encryption can be based on an OTA IWF keyset. For example the OTA IWF keyset can be provided to the N OIF and a U OIF operating in an SDP of the mobile communication device by an RMS. In one embodiment the providing of the OTA IWF keyset to the N OIF and the U OIF by the RMS is performed utilizing remote management keysets.

At the N OIF can convert the OTA message to HTTP to generate a first adjusted message that includes the programming data. At the N OIF can verify a registration associated with the mobile communication device. This verification can be in conjunction with registering an IP address associated with the U OIF and or the UICC. In one embodiment the registering of the IP address can be based on a mutual authentication of the N OIF and the U OIF utilizing OTA IWF keyset. In one embodiment the N OIF can determine whether the UICC can receive the OTA message via a transmission using HTTP.

If the U OIF is not registered then method can return to and can monitor for incoming OTA messages such as from one or more OTA servers . If the U OIF is registered with the N OIF then method can proceed to and provide the first adjusted message e.g. the OTA message in HTTP to the U OIF of the mobile communication device. In one or more embodiments the providing of the first adjusted message to the U OIF enables the U OIF to convert the first adjusted message back to an SMS transport protocol e.g. SMPP to generate a second adjusted message that includes the programming data. In this example the U OIF can then provide the second adjusted message to the UICC via a baseband proxy e.g. operating in a device processor of the mobile communication device . In one or more embodiments the SDP the UICC and the device processor are separate from each other and are in communication with each other. In one embodiment if the U OIF is not registered the N OIF may store the encrypted message for transmission at a later time such as when the U OIF becomes registered. It may then go back to state . In one embodiment periodic monitoring for registration can be performed.

In one embodiment the N OIF can receive a group of OTA messages e.g. from the OTA server or from a group of OTA servers and can determine a priority among the OTA message and the group of OTA messages where the providing of the first adjusted message to the U OIF is according to the priority. In one embodiment the N OIF can monitor for a response to the first adjusted message originating from the mobile communication device. In one embodiment the N OIF can receive a group of OTA messages from a group of OTA servers and can determine a priority among the group of OTA messages where the priority is utilized for determining a transmission schedule for the group of OTA messages.

In one embodiment the N OIF can receive a response that is utilizing HTTP where the response is received from the U OIF and is associated with the second adjusted message received by the UICC. In this example the N OIF can convert the response to the SMS transport protocol to generate an adjusted response. The N OIF can correlate the response to the OTA message to identify an OTA server that originated the OTA message. The N OIF can then provide the adjusted response to the OTA server.

In one embodiment the N OIF can decrypt the response utilizing the OTA IWF keyset wherein the decrypting is performed prior to the generating of the adjusted response and wherein the OTA IWF keyset is provided to the N OIF and the U OIF by an RMS.

In one embodiment the response can be encrypted e.g. by the UICC utilizing an OTA server keyset that is stored by the UICC and the OTA server. In another embodiment the OTA message can be encrypted e.g. by the OTA server utilizing the OTA server keyset that is stored by the UICC and the OTA server. In yet another embodiment the OTA server keyset is not stored by or otherwise accessible to the U OIF and the N OIF.

The IPTV media system can include a super head end office SHO with at least one super headend office server SHS which receives media content from satellite and or terrestrial communication systems. In the present context media content can represent for example audio content moving image content such as 2D or 3D videos video games virtual reality content still image content and combinations thereof. The SHS server can forward packets associated with the media content to one or more video head end servers VHS via a network of video head end offices VHO according to a multicast communication protocol.

The VHS can distribute multimedia broadcast content via an access network to commercial and or residential buildings housing a gateway such as a residential or commercial gateway . The access network can represent a group of digital subscriber line access multiplexers DSLAMs located in a central office or a service area interface that provide broadband services over fiber optical links or copper twisted pairs to buildings . The gateway can use communication technology to distribute broadcast signals to media processors such as Set Top Boxes STBs which in turn present broadcast channels to media devices such as computers or television sets managed in some instances by a media controller such as an infrared or RF remote controller .

The gateway the media processors and media devices can utilize tethered communication technologies such as coaxial powerline or phone line wiring or can operate over a wireless access protocol such as Wireless Fidelity WiFi Bluetooth Zigbee or other present or next generation local or personal area wireless network technologies. By way of these interfaces unicast communications can also be invoked between the media processors and subsystems of the IPTV media system for services such as video on demand VoD browsing an electronic programming guide EPG or other infrastructure services.

A satellite broadcast television system can be used in the media system of . The satellite broadcast television system can be overlaid operably coupled with or replace the IPTV system as another representative embodiment of communication system . In this embodiment signals transmitted by a satellite that include media content can be received by a satellite dish receiver coupled to the building . Modulated signals received by the satellite dish receiver can be transferred to the media processors for demodulating decoding encoding and or distributing broadcast channels to the media devices . The media processors can be equipped with a broadband port to an Internet Service Provider ISP network to enable interactive services such as VoD and EPG as described above.

In yet another embodiment an analog or digital cable broadcast distribution system such as cable TV system can be overlaid operably coupled with or replace the IPTV system and or the satellite TV system as another representative embodiment of communication system . In this embodiment the cable TV system can also provide Internet telephony and interactive media services.

The subject disclosure can apply to other present or next generation over the air and or landline media content services system.

Some of the network elements of the IPTV media system can be coupled to one or more computing devices a portion of which can operate as a web server for providing web portal services over the ISP network to wireline media devices or wireless communication devices .

Communication system can also provide for computing devices to function as a remote management server a network interworking function and or an OTA server herein referred to as server . The server can use computing and communication technology to perform function which can include among other things receiving an OTA message that is utilizing an SMS transport protocol where the OTA message includes programming data for use by a mobile communication device converting the OTA programming message to HTTP to generate a first adjusted message that includes the programming data registering an IP address associated with the U OIF of the mobile communication device where the registering is based on a mutual authentication of the N OIF and the U OIF utilizing a first keyset and providing the first adjusted message to the U OIF to enable the U OIF to convert the first adjusted message to the SMS transport protocol to generate a second adjusted message that includes the programming data wherein the providing of the first adjusted message to the U OIF further enables the U OIF to provide the second adjusted message to a UICC via a baseband proxy operating in a device processor of the mobile communication device.

Function can include functions being performed at the UICC including receiving from a U OIF of the SDP via a baseband proxy an OTA message including programming data where the SDP the UICC and the device processor executing the baseband proxy are separate from each other and are in communication with each other and where the OTA message is in HTTP and converted to an SMS transport protocol. In function a response can be generated at the UICC based on the OTA message and the response can be provided to the U OIF via the baseband proxy to enable the U OIF to convert the response to HTTP to generate a first adjusted response where the providing of the response to the U OIF enables the U OIF to provide the first adjusted response to a N OIF operating in a server for conversion to a second adjusted response that is in SMS transport protocol.

Function can also include functions being performed at the SDP such as receiving from an N OIF operating in a server an OTA message that is utilizing a HTTP where the OTA message includes programming data for use by the mobile communication device converting the OTA message to a SMS transport protocol e.g. SMPP to generate an adjusted message that includes the programming data and providing the adjusted message to the UICC of the mobile communication device via the baseband proxy operating of the mobile communication device.

Multiple forms of media services can be offered to media devices over landline technologies such as those described above. Additionally media services can be offered to media devices by way of a wireless access base station operating according to common wireless access protocols such as Global System for Mobile or GSM Code Division Multiple Access or CDMA Time Division Multiple Access or TDMA Universal Mobile Telecommunications or UMTS World interoperability for Microwave or WiMAX Software Defined Radio or SDR Long Term Evolution or LTE and so on. Other present and next generation wide area wireless access network technologies can be used in one or more embodiments of the subject disclosure.

In one or more embodiments the UICC of device can perform operations including receiving from a baseband proxy of the device an OTA message including programming data. In this example the UICC and the device processor executing the baseband proxy can be separate from each other and can be in communication with each other and the OTA message can be in HTTP and converted to an SMS transport protocol. Further in this example a response can be generated at the UICC based on the OTA message. The response can be provided by the UICC to the U OIF via the baseband proxy to enable the U OIF to convert the response to HTTP to generate a first adjusted response where the providing of the response to the U OIF enables the U OIF to provide the first adjusted response to an N OIF operating in a server for conversion to a second adjusted response that is in SMS transport protocol. In one embodiment the UICC can decrypt the OTA message utilizing a keyset where the keyset is stored by the UICC and an OTA server that originated the OTA message. In another embodiment the keyset is not stored by or otherwise accessible to the U OIF and or the N OIF. In one embodiment communication between the UICC and the baseband proxy is via a CAT STK.

In one or more embodiments the U OIF of device can perform operations including receiving from an N OIF operating in a server an OTA message that is utilizing a HTTP where the OTA message includes programming data for use by the mobile communication device converting the OTA message to a SMS transport protocol e.g. SMPP to generate an adjusted message that includes the programming data and providing the adjusted message to the UICC of the mobile communication device via the baseband proxy operating of the mobile communication device. In this example the baseband proxy can be operating in a device processor of the mobile communication device where the SDP the UICC and the device processor are separate from each other and are in communication with each other. In one embodiment an IP address can be registered by the U OIF with the N OIF where the IP address is associated with the U OIF and where the registering of the IP address is based on a mutual authentication of the N OIF and the U OIF utilizing a first keyset that is provided to the U OIF and the N OIF by a remote management server.

To enable these features communication device can comprise a wireline and or wireless transceiver herein transceiver a user interface UI a power supply a location receiver a motion sensor an orientation sensor and a controller for managing operations thereof. The transceiver can support short range or long range wireless access technologies such as Bluetooth ZigBee WiFi DECT or cellular communication technologies just to mention a few. Cellular technologies can include for example CDMA 1X UMTS HSDPA GSM GPRS TDMA EDGE EV DO WiMAX SDR LTE NFC as well as other next generation wireless communication technologies as they arise. The transceiver can also be adapted to support circuit switched wireline access technologies such as PSTN packet switched wireline access technologies such as TCP IP VoIP etc. and combinations thereof.

The UI can include a depressible or touch sensitive keypad with a navigation mechanism such as a roller ball a joystick a mouse or a navigation disk for manipulating operations of the communication device . The keypad can be an integral part of a housing assembly of the communication device or an independent device operably coupled thereto by a tethered wireline interface such as a USB cable or a wireless interface supporting for example Bluetooth. The keypad can represent a numeric keypad commonly used by phones and or a QWERTY keypad with alphanumeric keys. The UI can further include a display such as monochrome or color LCD Liquid Crystal Display OLED Organic Light Emitting Diode or other suitable display technology for conveying images to an end user of the communication device . In an embodiment where the display is touch sensitive a portion or all of the keypad can be presented by way of the display with navigation features.

The display can use touch screen technology to also serve as a user interface for detecting user input. As a touch screen display the communication device can be adapted to present a user interface with graphical user interface GUI elements that can be selected by a user with a touch of a finger. The touch screen display can be equipped with capacitive resistive or other forms of sensing technology to detect how much surface area of a user s finger has been placed on a portion of the touch screen display. This sensing information can be used to control the manipulation of the GUI elements or other functions of the user interface. The display can be an integral part of the housing assembly of the communication device or an independent device communicatively coupled thereto by a tethered wireline interface such as a cable or a wireless interface.

The UI can also include an audio system that utilizes audio technology for conveying low volume audio such as audio heard in proximity of a human ear and high volume audio such as speakerphone for hands free operation . The audio system can further include a microphone for receiving audible signals of an end user. The audio system can also be used for voice recognition applications. The UI can further include an image sensor such as a charged coupled device CCD camera for capturing still or moving images.

The power supply can utilize common power management technologies such as replaceable and rechargeable batteries supply regulation technologies and or charging system technologies for supplying energy to the components of the communication device to facilitate long range or short range portable applications. Alternatively or in combination the charging system can utilize external power sources such as DC power supplied over a physical interface such as a USB port or other suitable tethering technologies.

The location receiver can utilize location technology such as a global positioning system GPS receiver capable of assisted GPS for identifying a location of the communication device based on signals generated by a constellation of GPS satellites which can be used for facilitating location services such as navigation. The motion sensor can utilize motion sensing technology such as an accelerometer a gyroscope or other suitable motion sensing technology to detect motion of the communication device in three dimensional space. The orientation sensor can utilize orientation sensing technology such as a magnetometer to detect the orientation of the communication device north south west and east as well as combined orientations in degrees minutes or other suitable orientation metrics .

The communication device can use the transceiver to also determine a proximity to a cellular WiFi Bluetooth or other wireless access points by sensing techniques such as utilizing a received signal strength indicator RSSI and or signal time of arrival TOA or time of flight TOF measurements. The controller can utilize computing technologies such as a microprocessor a digital signal processor DSP programmable gate arrays application specific integrated circuits and or a video processor with associated storage memory such as Flash ROM RAM SRAM DRAM or other storage technologies for executing computer instructions controlling and processing data supplied by the aforementioned components of the communication device .

Other components not shown in can be used in one or more embodiments of the subject disclosure. For instance the communication device can include a reset button not shown . The reset button can be used to reset the controller of the communication device . In yet another embodiment the communication device can also include a factory default setting button positioned for example below a small hole in a housing assembly of the communication device to force the communication device to re establish factory settings. In this embodiment a user can use a protruding object such as a pen or paper clip tip to reach into the hole and depress the default setting button. In one embodiment the communication device can also include a slot for adding or removing the UICC.

The communication device as described herein can operate with more or less of the circuit components shown in . These variant embodiments can be used in one or more embodiments of the subject disclosure.

The communication device can be adapted to perform the functions of the media processor the media devices the portable communication devices and or the server of . It will be appreciated that the communication device can also represent other devices that can operate in communication system of such as a gaming console and a media player.

The communication device shown in or portions thereof can serve as a representation of one or more of the devices of including end user devices customer premises equipment remote management servers interworking functions and or OTA servers. In one or more embodiments the OTA server can be operated by or affiliated with a third party entity that is different from and or independent of the service provider operating the RMS . In addition the controller can perform the functions and or .

Upon reviewing the aforementioned embodiments it would be evident to an artisan with ordinary skill in the art that said embodiments can be modified reduced or enhanced without departing from the scope of the claims described below. For example in the event that a UICC is determined to be inaccessible via an HTTP message from the N OIF an alert can be generated. For instance the alert can be transmitted to the mobile device to indicate that OTA programming data is available. In another embodiment the alert can cause the N OIF or another network element to determine if there are other alternate delivery techniques available for the UICC.

In one or more embodiments the device processor executing the baseband proxy can be a baseband processor of the communication device.

It should be understood that devices described in the exemplary embodiments can be in communication with each other via various wireless and or wired methodologies. The methodologies can be links that are described as coupled connected and so forth which can include unidirectional and or bidirectional communication over wireless paths and or wired paths that utilize one or more of various protocols or methodologies where the coupling and or connection can be direct e.g. no intervening processing device and or indirect e.g. an intermediary processing device such as a router .

The machine may comprise a server computer a client user computer a personal computer PC a tablet PC a smart phone a laptop computer a desktop computer a control system a network router switch or bridge or any machine capable of executing a set of instructions sequential or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by that machine. It will be understood that a communication device of the subject disclosure includes broadly any electronic device that provides voice video or data communication. Further while a single machine is illustrated the term machine shall also be taken to include any collection of machines that individually or jointly execute a set or multiple sets of instructions to perform any one or more of the methods discussed herein.

The computer system may include a processor or controller e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD a flat panel or a solid state display . The computer system may include an input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker or remote control and a network interface device . In distributed environments the embodiments described in the subject disclosure can be adapted to utilize multiple display units controlled by two or more computer systems . In this configuration presentations described by the subject disclosure may in part be shown in a first of the display units while the remaining portion is presented in a second of the display units .

The disk drive unit may include a tangible computer readable storage medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methods or functions described herein including those methods illustrated above. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory the static memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system . The main memory and the processor also may constitute tangible computer readable storage media.

Dedicated hardware implementations including but not limited to application specific integrated circuits programmable logic arrays and other hardware devices that can likewise be constructed to implement the methods described herein. Application specific integrated circuits and programmable logic array can use downloadable instructions for executing state machines and or circuit configurations to implement embodiments of the subject disclosure. Applications that may include the apparatus and systems of various embodiments broadly include a variety of electronic and computer systems. Some embodiments implement functions in two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals communicated between and through the modules or as portions of an application specific integrated circuit. Thus the example system is applicable to software firmware and hardware implementations.

In accordance with various embodiments of the subject disclosure the operations or methods described herein are intended for operation as software programs or instructions running on or executed by a computer processor or other computing device and which may include other forms of instructions manifested as a state machine implemented with logic components in an application specific integrated circuit or field programmable gate array. Furthermore software implementations e.g. software programs instructions etc. including but not limited to distributed processing or component object distributed processing parallel processing or virtual machine processing can also be constructed to implement the methods described herein. It is further noted that a computing device such as a processor a controller a state machine or other suitable device for executing instructions to perform operations or methods may perform such operations directly or indirectly by way of one or more intermediate devices directed by the computing device.

While the tangible computer readable storage medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term tangible computer readable storage medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term tangible computer readable storage medium shall also be taken to include any non transitory medium that is capable of storing or encoding a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methods of the subject disclosure. The term non transitory as in a non transitory computer readable storage includes without limitation memories drives devices and anything tangible but not a signal per se.

The term separate can include a component or device that is logically and or physically separate from another component or device which can include components devices that operate independently of each other while being in communication with each other. In one or more embodiments devices can be separate in that they do not share any common component although such separate devices can be in communication with each other such as via an electrode coupling. In one or more embodiments devices can be separate in that they each have one or more components that are not shared between each other but have one or more components that may be shared with each other.

The term tangible computer readable storage medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories such as a memory card or other package that houses one or more read only non volatile memories random access memories or other re writable volatile memories a magneto optical or optical medium such as a disk or tape or other tangible media which can be used to store information. Accordingly the disclosure is considered to include any one or more of a tangible computer readable storage medium as listed herein and including art recognized equivalents and successor media in which the software implementations herein are stored.

Although the present specification describes components and functions implemented in the embodiments with reference to particular standards and protocols the disclosure is not limited to such standards and protocols. Each of the standards for Internet and other packet switched network transmission e.g. TCP IP UDP IP HTML HTTP NFC represent examples of the state of the art. Such standards are from time to time superseded by faster or more efficient equivalents having essentially the same functions. Wireless standards for device detection e.g. RFID short range communications e.g. Bluetooth WiFi Zigbee NFC and long range communications e.g. WiMAX GSM CDMA LTE can be used by computer system .

The illustrations of embodiments described herein are intended to provide a general understanding of the structure of various embodiments and they are not intended to serve as a complete description of all the elements and features of apparatus and systems that might make use of the structures described herein. Many other embodiments will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description. The exemplary embodiments can include combinations of features and or steps from multiple embodiments. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. Figures are also merely representational and may not be drawn to scale. Certain proportions thereof may be exaggerated while others may be minimized. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

Although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any arrangement calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein can be used in the subject disclosure. In one or more embodiments features that are positively recited can also be excluded from the embodiment with or without replacement by another component or step. The steps or functions described with respect to the exemplary processes or methods can be performed in any order. The steps or functions described with respect to the exemplary processes or methods can be performed alone or in combination with other steps or functions from other embodiments or from other steps that have not been described . Less than all of the steps or functions described with respect to the exemplary processes or methods can also be performed in one or more of the exemplary embodiments. Further the use of numerical terms to describe a device component step or function such as first second third and so forth is not intended to describe an order or function unless expressly stated so. The use of the terms first second third and so forth is generally to distinguish between devices components steps or functions unless expressly stated otherwise. Additionally one or more devices or components described with respect to the exemplary embodiments can facilitate one or more functions where the facilitating e.g. facilitating access or facilitating establishing a connection can include less than every step needed to perform the function or can include all of the steps needed to perform the function.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separately claimed subject matter.

