---

title: Methods, systems, and media for providing a media search engine
abstract: Methods, systems, and media for providing a media search engine are provided. In some implementations, a method for searching for content is provided, the method comprising: receiving a media search query for media assets; identifying web search results from a corpus of web resources that are responsive to the media search query, wherein each of the web search results has an associated relevancy score; determining keyword information and contextual information from a subset of the web search results, wherein the subset of the web search results is selected from the web search results based on the associated relevancy score and wherein media entities are determined from at least a portion of the keyword information and the contextual information; assigning a topic score for the each of the media entities based on occurrence in the web search results; selecting at least one media entity from the media entities based on the topic score; identifying media assets from a corpus of media assets based at least in part on the selected media entity; and causing a subset of the media assets to be presented to a user in response to the media search query.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09449054&OS=09449054&RS=09449054
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09449054
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150522
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 833 449 filed Mar. 15 2013 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The disclosed subject matter relates to methods systems and media for providing a media search engine.

There is an overwhelming volume of content that is available to the average consumer. For example with respect to media content there are many applications that a consumer can use on a television or set top box that allow the consumer to consume media content from various sources e.g. media content that is delivered linearly from a multichannel video programming distributor video on demand content that is provided by a multichannel video programming distributor personal media content that is acquired by the consumer recorded content that is stored on a digital video recorder or any other suitable storage device and or on demand content that is provided from over the top providers .

As the number of sources and the volume of content continue to increase consumers are increasingly reliant on search engines where a consumer can formulate a search query that includes search constraints that identify what information is being sought. Search engines have been developed that receive such search queries and return search results responsive to the search query. This approach may be suitable when the keywords used in the search query are the same or similar to the indexed keywords used in a database.

However in some instances search queries can include keywords that are not included in the database. For example these search queries can provide a description of a content item e.g. a description of a movie plot a text portion of a storyline etc. . When such search queries are used the indexing database is likely to return irrelevant search results.

In accordance with some implementations of the disclosed subject matter a system for searching for content is provided. The system comprises a hardware processor that is configured to receive a media search query for one or more media assets identify a plurality of web search results from a corpus of web resources that are responsive to the media search query wherein each of the web search results has an associated relevancy score determine keyword information and contextual information from a subset of the web search results wherein the subset of the web search results is selected from the plurality of web search results based on the associated relevancy score and wherein a plurality of media entities are determined from at least a portion of the keyword information and the contextual information assign a topic score for the each of the plurality of media entities based on occurrence in the web search results select at least one media entity from the plurality of media entities based on the topic score identify a plurality of media assets from a corpus of media assets based at least in part on the selected media entity and cause a subset of the plurality of media assets to be presented to a user in response to the media search query.

In accordance with some implementations of the disclosed subject matter a method for searching for content is provided the method comprising receiving using a hardware processor a media search query for one or more media assets identifying using the hardware processor a plurality of web search results from a corpus of web resources that are responsive to the media search query wherein each of the web search results has an associated relevancy score determining using the hardware processor keyword information and contextual information from a subset of the web search results wherein the subset of the web search results is selected from the plurality of web search results based on the associated relevancy score and wherein a plurality of media entities are determined from at least a portion of the keyword information and the contextual information assigning using the hardware processor a topic score for the each of the plurality of media entities based on occurrence in the web search results selecting using the hardware processor at least one media entity from the plurality of media entities based on the topic score identifying using the hardware processor a plurality of media assets from a corpus of media assets based at least in part on the selected media entity and causing using the hardware processor a subset of the plurality of media assets to be presented to a user in response to the media search query.

In accordance with some implementations of the disclosed subject matter a non transitory computer readable medium containing computer executable instructions that when executed by a processor cause the processor to perform a method for searching for content is provided. The method comprises receiving a media search query for one or more media assets identifying a plurality of web search results from a corpus of web resources that are responsive to the media search query wherein each of the web search results has an associated relevancy score determining keyword information and contextual information from a subset of the web search results wherein the subset of the web search results is selected from the plurality of web search results based on the associated relevancy score and wherein a plurality of media entities are determined from at least a portion of the keyword information and the contextual information assigning a topic score for the each of the plurality of media entities based on occurrence in the web search results selecting at least one media entity from the plurality of media entities based on the topic score identifying a plurality of media assets from a corpus of media assets based at least in part on the selected media entity and causing a subset of the plurality of media assets to be presented to a user in response to the media search query.

In accordance with some implementations of the disclosed subject matter a system for searching for content is provided the system comprising means for receiving a media search query for one or more media assets means for identifying a plurality of web search results from a corpus of web resources that are responsive to the media search query wherein each of the web search results has an associated relevancy score means for determining keyword information and contextual information from a subset of the web search results wherein the subset of the web search results is selected from the plurality of web search results based on the associated relevancy score and wherein a plurality of media entities are determined from at least a portion of the keyword information and the contextual information means for assigning a topic score for the each of the plurality of media entities based on occurrence in the web search results means for selecting at least one media entity from the plurality of media entities based on the topic score means for identifying a plurality of media assets from a corpus of media assets based at least in part on the selected media entity and means for causing a subset of the plurality of media assets to be presented to a user in response to the media search query.

In some implementations the system further comprises means for rewriting the media search query by inserting one or more media terms prior to identifying the plurality of web search results from the corpus of web resources.

In some implementations the system further comprises means for parsing the keyword information from the subset of the web search results.

In some implementations the system further comprises means for incrementing the topic score for a media entity upon determining that a page corresponding to a web search result relates to the media entity.

In some implementations the system further comprises means for accessing an entity table that maps a web resource identifier corresponding to a web search result to a media entity wherein the web resource identifier comprises a link to a related website.

In some implementations the system further comprises means for determining a quality score for each of the plurality of identified media assets and means for filtering the at least a subset of the plurality of media assets based on the determined quality score.

In some implementations the system further comprises means for identifying a second plurality of media assets from a media data feed that are responsive to the media search query and means for causing a plurality of one or more the plurality of media assets one or more of the plurality of web search results and one or more of the second plurality of media assets to the user in response to the media search query.

In some implementations mechanisms which can include methods systems and media for providing a media search engine are provided.

The mechanisms can receive a media search query for media content that is submitted by a user. For example a user using a television device can input a search query that specifies a movie that the user is interested in. In a more particular example the search query can provide a topical description of the movie a description of a character in the movie e.g. the search query can include the terms conscientious serial killer a description of a movie plot of storyline e.g. the search query can include the terms blackjack card counters or little girl assassin or a description of any other suitable characteristic of the movie.

In response to receiving the media search query the mechanisms can perform a search of a corpus of web resources for web search results responsive to the media search query. As used herein a corpus is a collection of resources and each corpus can include resources of multiple types. For example a web corpus can include HTML documents images video content audio content etc. In another example a media corpus can include media content such as a collection of programs that can include television programs on demand programs over the top content recorded content etc.

It should be noted that each search result that is associated with a web resource e.g. a link to an HTML document an image a video etc. can also be associated with a relevancy score. For example performing a web search of a corpus of web resources provides one or more relevant web search results where each of the search results has a relevancy score based on matching the search terms with the search result. Documents and other web resources that include a greater number of the search terms can be identified as more relevant or having a higher relevancy score than documents that include a fewer number of the search terms. A subset of the web search results can be selected based in part on the relevancy score e.g. the more relevant web search results the top hits etc. .

In some implementations the mechanisms can determine keyword information e.g. one or more keywords and contextual information from a subset of the web search results. For example keywords and contextual information can be extracted from the top N web pages e.g. in the form of uniform resource locators out of the multiple web search results. The mechanisms can then determine one or more media entities from at least a portion of the keyword information and contextual information. It should be noted that media entities can include for example a title an identifier an episode number a season number a category an actor a producer a characteristic a location or any other suitable information relating to the media content. In a more particular example the mechanisms can crawl and or analyze one or more web pages and determine media entities that appear within the pages and or media entities that describe the context of the page. Media entities can be determined using any suitable approach such as clustering keywords or extracting media entities from portions of a page. For example media entities can be selected in response to determining that a particular media entity is associated with particular keywords from the keyword information and or particular characteristics from the contextual information. In some implementations an entity table that maps media entities to web resources can be accessed.

Upon identifying media entities from a subset of the web search results a topic score or entity score can be determined for each of the identified media entities. For example the mechanisms can calculate a topic score for an identified media entity by determining the number of times that particular media entity appears in the subset of web search results. In another example the mechanisms can calculate a topic score for an identified media entity by determining the number of times that a web search result describes the media entity or includes a keyword or term that is associated with the media entity. In yet another example the mechanisms can analyze the corpus of web resources. In a more particular example a hash table can be created based on the media entities in the web resources where each media entity in a web resource can be identified and hashed. A count value in the corresponding entry in the hash table can then be incremented. Once the corpus of web resources has been analyzed the count values can reflect which media entities occurred more often and which media entities occurred less often in the web resources or a subset of web resources . The mechanisms can in some implementations select the media entity or entities that appear more than a threshold amount.

The mechanisms can use the selected media entity or entities to generate a search query and perform a search of a corpus of media content for media item identifiers. For example when the mechanisms are implemented on a television device a search query can be generated based at least in part on the one or more media entities and the search query can be used to search through a media data feed for media content that can be provided by the television device. The media item identifiers or a subset of the media item identifiers can be presented to a user in response to the media search query.

In some implementations the mechanisms can present the user with media content identifiers where the user can select a media content identifier to access the corresponding media item e.g. tune to a channel providing a television program download video content access a recorded version of the media item provide an interface for purchasing the media item for playback etc. . In some implementations the mechanisms can present the user with media content identifiers that represent media content along with one or more web search results e.g. links to HTML documents images videos and other content responsive to the media search query . It should be noted that the media content identifiers can be supplemented with any suitable search result e.g. a title based video search web search results image search results etc. .

It should also be noted that although the implementations described herein generally relate to searching for media content this is merely illustrative. The mechanisms described herein can be applied to obtaining search results relating to particular people e.g. actors directors etc. particular places particular products particular sports teams particular performances particular brands or manufactures particular organizations etc.

These mechanisms can be used in a variety of applications. For example these mechanisms can be used to provide the user with media search results from multiple corpuses in response to an unstructured or freestyle query e.g. media content that is associated with a conscientious serial killer . In another example these mechanisms can be used to enhance media search engines with information from web resources. In yet another example these mechanisms can use entities to determine a confidence in the media search results presented to a user.

Turning to shows an illustrative example of a system for providing a media search engine in accordance with some implementations of the disclosed subject matter. System can include a client device a communications network a search system a search engine an indexing database a media quality database and or any other suitable component. Client device can be implemented as a personal computer a laptop computer a smartphone a mobile telephone a tablet computer a gaming device a digital media receiver a set top box a smart television a media player or any other suitable device.

Communications network can be any suitable computer network or combination of such networks including the Internet an intranet a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN a wireless network a digital subscriber line DSL network a frame relay network an asynchronous transfer mode ATM network a virtual private network VPN etc. Communications network can include any suitable links suitable for communicating data among client device and search system such as network links dial up links wireless links hard wired links any other suitable communications links or any suitable combination of such links.

Search system can include one or more computing devices configured to process search queries and identify content based on the search queries. In some implementations the content can include media content such as video recordings e.g. movies television programs user generated video clips etc. audio recordings animation recordings or any other suitable type of audiovisual content. In addition in some implementations the content can include non audiovisual content such as documents e.g. web pages images and or any other suitable type of information and or data.

Search engine can include hardware and or software for performing document searches e.g. searching the Internet . Search engine can include at least one of an Internet search engine e.g. a publically available Internet search engine a desktop search engine a database search engine and any other suitable type of search engine. In some implementations search engine can include a document indexing database . Document indexing database can include hardware and or software for searching a first corpus of data. Any suitable first corpus of data can be used. In some implementations the first corpus of data can include a plurality of documents. Additionally or alternatively in some implementations the first corpus of data can include any other suitable type of content such as media content. In some implementations search engine can be configured to receive a search query use document indexing database to identify a plurality of identifiers of documents that are related to media entities that the search query is based rank the plurality of documents and return identifiers of documents from the plurality that have been ranked at the top as search results corresponding to the search query. In some implementations search engine can also provide a relevancy score that indicates the inclusion of one or more keywords in the search query. For example documents that contain a greater number of the search terms can be identified as more relevant than documents that contain a fewer number of the search terms.

In some implementations search engine can determine one or more media entities associated with search results e.g. web URLs and generate topic scores for each of the media entities. For example search engine can calculate a topic score for a determined media entity by determining the number of times that particular media entity appears in the subset of web search results. In a more particular example search engine can analyze the corpus of web resources and create a hash table based on the media entities in the web resources where each media entity in a web resource can be identified and hashed. A count value in the corresponding entry in the hash table can then be incremented. Once the corpus of web resources has been analyzed the count values can reflect which media entities occurred more often and which media entities occurred less often in the web resources or a subset of web resources .

Indexing database can include hardware and or software for searching through a second corpus of data. The second corpus of data can include media content e.g. movies television programs video clips audio recordings and or any other suitable type of media content images documents and or any suitable type of content. In some implementations indexing database can relate identifiers for content items from the second corpus of data to media entities that are associated with the content items. Each identifier can include a title e.g. a movie title or a document file an address of a file e.g. an address of a multimedia file or a document file or any other suitable information. The media entities related to each content item identifier can indicate the genre of the content item a topic of the content item and or any other suitable characteristic of the content item. In some implementations indexing database can be configured to receive a search query based on one or more media entities determine a content item identifier that is associated with one or more of the media entities and provide the identifier as part of search result s corresponding to the search query.

Additionally or alternatively in some implementations the second corpus of data can include audiovisual content items and non audiovisual content items that are related to the audiovisual content items. For example non audiovisual content items that are related to visual content items can include web pages that are dedicated to a particular movie web pages with movie scripts web pages with movie reviews web pages with song lyrics or any other suitable content that is in some way related to an audiovisual content item.

In some implementations the second corpus of data can include fewer types of content items than the first corpus of data. For example the second corpus of data can be limited to one or more of media content e.g. movie files and or movie identifiers health records or financial records whereas the first corpus of data can include a large amount of web content that is found on one or more web resources.

In some implementations the second corpus of data can be smaller than the first corpus of data. For example the first corpus of data can include all web content that is found on one or more web resources while the second corpus of data can include data that is collected or selected by administrative users that manage indexing database .

In some implementations indexing database can include a specialized database. For example indexing database can be a database of information about particular media content. In a more particular example these databases can be used to search only for movies. As another example the second corpus of data can include another type of specialized database such as a database of financial records or a database of health records. Indexing database can include any suitable type of database in some implementations.

In some implementations system can include a media quality database or any other suitable storage device that contains media quality scores. Media quality database can include hardware and or software for identifying one or more quality metrics for a particular media content item. By way of example the quality metrics can indicate at least one of 

In some implementations the quality metrics for a media content item that are stored in media quality database can be determined by aggregating feedback on the content item that is provided by a plurality of users on the Internet. In some implementations media quality database can be configured to receive media search results that are responsive to an identified media entity and provide a quality metric associated with the content item associated with a media search result. These quality metrics can be used to further filter and or enhance media search results to present to the user in response to a media search query.

Although search system document search engine indexing database and media quality database are depicted as separate systems in some implementations any number of them can be integrated together. For example search system document search engine document indexing database indexing database and media quality database can be integrated together as a single system standalone or distributed . In that regard each of indexing database and media quality database can be implemented as a standalone device e.g. a server or as a file or another type of data structure that is stored in a memory of search system .

Receiver module can be configured to receive a search query from a client device such as client device . As described above the search query can be a media search query for one or more media assets and the search query can include one or more search terms. In a more particular example the search terms can describe the one or more desired media assets e.g. media content that corresponds to brave little girl shown in . Each word can be a natural language word a number a string or an alphanumerical string. Receiver module can provide the search query to search module .

In some implementations receiver module can also modify the search terms provided by the user. For example receiver module can rewrite the search query to include media terms such as video or television movie. In another example receiver module can generate multiple search queries by supplementing search terms with additional media terms e.g. brave little girl movie brave little girl video brave little girl television theme etc. .

In some implementations receiver module can detect the language of the search terms provided by the user. For example in response to detecting that one or more search terms are non English receiver module can translate the non English search terms and insert the translated search terms into the search query. In another example receiver module can compare the term to a dictionary of English words and phrases.

In some implementations receiver module can use natural language processing techniques to enhance the search query. For example receiver module can determine whether a search term or terms is associated with a common word or phrase e.g. right now . In response to detecting a common word or phrase receiver module can communicate with other components e.g. ranking module or results presenter so that media search results can be filtered accordingly. In this example the common phrase right now can be interpreted by receiver module to cause media search results to be filtered such that one criterion of a presented media search result is that the media item is currently available.

Search module can be configured to use the search query to perform a document search. Search module can provide the search query to search engine and receive search results that identify a plurality of documents that match the search query. Search module can provide a first set of documents from the plurality to grouping module .

Grouping module can be configured to process each document or search result in the first set of search results to determine one or more media entities. Media entities can include any suitable natural language words numbers strings or alphanumerical strings that are found in the document. For example grouping module can access an entity table that maps particular media entities to particular documents e.g. a webpage . In response to inputting the various documents in the search results grouping module can obtain multiple media entities associated with the search results. In some implementations a subset of the search results e.g. the top N ranked search results can be inputted into the entity table to obtain one or more media entities. It should be noted that any suitable clustering approaches can be used for selecting media entities. Such clustering approaches can enhance the set of media entities by for example assigning a weight to extract representative media entities assigning weights to group particular media entities etc.

In some implementations the media entities extracted from the pages associated with the first set of search results can be transmitted to a counting module . Counting module can be configured to determine the incidence of each media entity within the first set of search results. For each media entity counting module can analyze the corpus of web resources and create a hash table based on the media entities in the web resources where each media entity in a web resource can be identified and hashed. A count value in the corresponding entry in the hash table can then be incremented. Once the corpus of web resources has been analyzed the count values can reflect which media entities occurred more often and which media entities occurred less often in the web resources or a subset of web resources .

In some implementations the media entities and their associated topic scores can be transmitted to a ranking module . Ranking module can rank the media entities based on topic score e.g. from highest topic score to lowest topic score and select one or more media entities. For example ranking module can order media entities and or sets of media entities based on topic score and can select a first ranked media entity or set of media entities for generating a media search query.

In some implementations the selected media entity can be transmitted to a search module . Search module can be configured to perform one or more searches of indexing database . More particularly search module can generate one or more search queries based in part on the selected media entity or set of media entities. For example each search query can include one or more media entities from a set of selected media entities and or each search query can be based on a particular media entity. The search query can be transmitted to indexing database that contains media content.

As described above in some implementations the search query generated by search module can be modified to include media terms such as movie or television program. For example search module can enhance the search query by supplementing search terms that incorporate one or more media entities with additional media terms e.g. brave little girl movie brave little girl television program etc. .

In response to transmitting the search query to indexing database search module can receive media search results responsive to the search query from indexing database . For example the media search results can include links or media item identifiers for presentation to the user.

In some implementations the system can include a ranking module that is configured to apply media quality scores or any other suitable quality metric to the content items identified in the search results. As shown in media quality scores or quality metrics can be obtained from media quality database . These media quality scores can include an indication of popularity e.g. the number of times users have selected a content item an indication of the quality of the video or audio in a content item an indication of the availability of a content item or any other suitable quality metric.

In response to obtaining media quality scores from media quality database ranking module can assign a ranking score to each of the content items. For example ranking module can assign a media quality score to each of the content items and rank the content items based on the media quality score. In another example ranking module can obtain multiple media quality scores from media quality database e.g. a popularity score and an availability score generate a ranking score based on the multiple quality scores e.g. where each media quality score is assigned a particular weight and rank the content items based on the ranking score. Based on the ranking scores one or more content items identified in the search results can be provided to a results presenter .

Results presenter can cause the one or more content items identified in the search results to be presented to a user of client device . For example results presenter can transmit the one or more content items in the form of content identifiers to client device where the user of client device can select a content identifier to retrieve the corresponding media content item e.g. order an on demand movie record a television program or set a series recording download over the top content from a suitable content provider etc. . In some implementations results presenter can cause additional content to be provided along with the one or more content items such as web search results from search module title based media search results using a media search engine video search results using document search engine etc.

Accordingly search system can in response to receiving an unstructured media search query process information from multiple corpuses of content e.g. web content media content etc. and obtain media content items based on relevancy scores e.g. from a web search engine such as search module topic scores from identified media entities e.g. from counting module and or media quality scores e.g. from media quality database . More particularly in response to receiving an unstructured media search query media content search results can be obtained based on media entities extracted from web search results that are obtained using the media search query.

It should be noted that although the implementations described herein generally relate to receiving a media search query and obtaining media content items as search results this is merely illustrative. Any suitable content can be used with the mechanisms described herein. For example an unstructured search query for finding an actor can be received and in response to processing information from a corpus of web resources or any other suitable information a list of actors matching the unstructured search query can be provided to the user.

At the media search query can be modified to enhance the search query. For example in some implementations the media search query can be rewritten to include common media terms such as television program and movie. In this example multiple search queries can be generated by including a different common media term in each search query. The multiple search queries can be submitted to a corpus of web resources and the results can be ranked and or filtered. In another example a media entity can be identified within the unstructured search query and in response to detecting a particular media entity a particular media term can be included in the modified search query. In this example in response to detecting the phase action within the search query the media term movie can be included in the modified search query.

In some implementations the language used in the media search query can be detected. In response to detecting that one or more search terms included in the media search query are non English the non English terms can be transmitted to a translation service that provides one or more translated terms for replacing in the search query. That can include using for example a dictionary of English words and phrases where each search term is compared against terms in the dictionary. In some implementations user preferences on a client device that include a language setting can be retrieved to determine the language of the one or more search terms included in the media search query.

It should be noted that any suitable approach for rewriting the media search query can be used. For example search terms within the search query can be replaced with a synonym in the modified search query.

It should also be noted that in some implementations natural language processing techniques can be used to detect the presence of particular words or phrases within the media search query. For example natural language processing techniques can be used to determine whether a search term or terms are associated with a common word or phrase e.g. right now . In response to detecting a common word or phrase media search results can be filtered. In this example the common phrase right now can be interpreted to cause media search results to be filtered such that one criterion of a presented media search result is that the media item is currently available. Any suitable techniques can be used to filter results from the search corpus include extended results within the search corpus restrict the search corpus with one or more filers etc.

At process can perform a search through a corpus of web resources based on the search query received at or the search query modified at . As described above the corpus of web resources can include any suitable collection of documents and any suitable type of content. For example the documents can include web pages e.g. HTML files word processing documents Portable Document Format PDF documents or any other suitable type of documents. In another example the corpus of web resources can also include images audio clips video content etc. In some implementations a search application programming interface API can be provided to search various content sources for search results responsive to the generated search query. For example the media search query in its unstructured form can be transmitted to a search engine using the search application programming interface and search results responsive to the search query can be obtained.

Web search results from the corpus of web resources that are responsive to the search query can be identified at . It should be noted that the web search results can include a list with identifiers of the documents. Additionally or alternatively in some implementations each of the web search results the search can include a relevancy score. Each relevancy score can be specific to a particular document and can indicate a degree to which the document is estimated by the search engine to satisfy the search query. For example a document e.g. a web page a piece of video content etc. that contains one or more of the search terms in the search query can be identified as relevant. Documents that include a greater number of the search terms can be identified as more relevant than documents that include a fewer number of the search terms. The relevancy score for each of the web search results can be provided by for example a web search engine such as search engine .

In some implementations a subset of the web search results can be selected at . This can be based for example on the relevancy score associated with each of the web search results. In a more particular example the subset of web search results can be selected by ranking the web search results by relevancy score and selecting the top N highest search results. In another more particular example the subset of web search results can be selected by determining whether the relevancy score is greater than a particular threshold value. If the relevancy score is greater than the particular threshold value the particular web search result is retained for further processing. Otherwise web search results having relevancy scores less than the particular threshold value can be discarded. It should be noted that in some implementations the relevancy score can be combined with other suitable scores such as a popularity score indicating the popularity of the particular web resource e.g. the number of clicks the number of links to the web resource etc. .

In some implementations upon obtaining the subset of web search results one or more media entities can be determined from the subset of web search results at . As described above media entities can include any suitable natural language words numbers strings or alphanumerical strings that are found in the document. In order to determine such media entities an entity table that maps particular media entities to particular documents e.g. a webpage can be accessed. For example the determination of whether a media entity is associated with a particular web search result can be performed by a table lookup operation. It should also be noted that such an entity table can be generated prior to receiving the media search query by crawling and or analyzing the contents of the web resources. In addition in some implementations media entities can be determined from keywords that appear on the pages of the web search results e.g. frequently occurring terms and or contextual information that is described on the pages of the web search results e.g. a particular grouping of terms indicates that page describes a particular media entity .

It should be noted that in some implementations obtaining the subset of web search results and determining media entities from the subset of web search results can be performed concurrently using the entity table. For example a link to the entity mapping table can be annotated in the web index such as document indexing database .

In some implementations each of the media entities determined from the pages associated with the first set of search results can be assigned a topic score at . For example the topic score can be based on a determination of the incidence of a media entity within the subset of web search results. In another example the topic score can be based on a determination of the incidence of a media entity within all of the web search results. In yet another example the topic score can be based on a determination of the incidence or occurrence of terms within a group of terms associated with a media entity. For each media entity one or more web resources can be analyzed and a hash table can be created based on the media entities in the web resources where each media entity in a web resource can be identified and hashed. A count value in the corresponding entry in the hash table can then be incremented. Once the corpus of web resources has been analyzed the count values can reflect which media entities occurred more often and which media entities occurred less often in the web resources or a subset of web resources .

It should be noted that the topic scores can be determined using any suitable approach. For example a topic score can be determined for a group of media entities when a document satisfies a predetermined similarity criterion. In a more particular example the similarity criterion can be satisfied when the document includes all or a predetermined portion of terms in the group of media entities. In another more particular example the similarity criterion can be satisfied when the document includes each of the media entities in the group of media entities or a similar media entity e.g. a synonym . In yet another more particular example the similarity criterion can be satisfied when the document describes each of the media entities in the group of media entities.

Additionally or alternatively in some implementations the topic score can incorporate other scores such as the relevancy score associated with each web search result. For example upon determining that a particular entity occurs in particular web search results the topic score can include an average of the relevancy scores associated with each of the particular web search results. In another example the count values can be weighted based on the relevancy scores associated with each of the particular web search results.

Turning to in some implementations one or more media entities can be selected based on topic score at . For example the extracted media entities can be selected by ranking the media entities by topic score and selecting the top N highest media entities. In another example the extracted media entities can be selected by determining whether the topic score is greater than a particular threshold value. If the topic score is greater than the particular threshold value the media entity can be retained for use in generating a subsequent search query. Otherwise media entities having topic scores less than the particular threshold value can be discarded. Alternatively in some implementations all of the media entities or groups of media entities can be used.

At a search of a second corpus of resources can be performed. As described above in some implementations the second corpus can include any suitable type of content such as media content and the second corpus of resources can be different from the first corpus of resources e.g. web resources . More particularly a media search query can be generated based on the selected media entities and the second corpus of resources can be searched for media content responsive to the search query. In some implementations multiple search queries can be generated based on the selected media entities where a portion of media entities is used in one search query and a different portion of media entities is used in another search query.

At media assets or other suitable content that are responsive to the search query based on the selected media entities can be identified. For example in response to transmitting a search query to indexing database multiple pieces of media content can be identified. In a more particular example the search result can include an identifier associated with a media content item. The identifier can be a link to the media content a unique content identifier for accessing the media content in a media database a title of the media content a file name associated with the media content or any other suitable identifier.

In some implementations media quality scores can be used to rank and or filter the media assets at . As described above media quality scores can be retrieved from a suitable source such as media quality database and each media quality score can be associated with a particular media asset. These media quality scores can include an indication of popularity e.g. the number of times users have selected a content item an indication of the quality of the video or audio in a content item an indication of the availability of a content item or any other suitable quality metric. In addition media assets can be ranked and or filtered by using topic scores associated with a media entity that was used in the search query that resulted in the identification of the media asset relevancy scores associated with a document where a media entity was identified etc.

Additionally or alternatively learning techniques can be applied to the identified media assets. For example in response to identifying particular media assets a click through rate of the media assets presented as search results can be determined. In response to determining that the click through rate of a particular media asset when presented as a search result is low e.g. which may indicate that it is a less relevant result for the given search query one or more learning techniques can be used such that the media asset can be assigned a lower ranking or discarded from the presented search results. On the other hand in response to determining that the click through rate of a particular media asset when presented as a search result is high one or more learning techniques can be used such that the media asset can be promoted to the top of the listing of search results.

In some implementations based on media quality scores and or other scores the media assets can be ranked at and a subset of the media assets can be selected based on the ranking at . For example the media assets can be selected by ranking the media assets by media quality score and selecting a predetermined number of media assets having the highest media quality scores. In another example the media assets can be selected by determining whether the media quality score is greater than a particular threshold value. Alternatively all of the media assets can be selected for presentation to the user. In yet another example the media assets can be selected based on client device information e.g. screen size user profile information etc. .

In some implementations additional content items can be added to the subset of media assets. For example a portion of the web search results from can be added to the subset of media assets such that media identifiers and web links responsive to the media search query can be provided to the user. In another example a different media search can be performed such as a title based media search through a media data feed and a portion of the title based media search can be added to the subset of media assets such that media identifiers from different media searches can be provided to the user. In yet another example media searches through different sources can be performed such that media search results from different sources and different corpuses can be provided to the user. In a further example the user of the client device can indicate particular sources for providing additional search results e.g. a particular search engine a particular source of media content etc. .

At the subset of identified media assets and any other suitable content can be presented to the user. For example in response to receiving the media search query a graphical user interface can be presented to the user that includes media identifiers corresponding to each of the identified media assets. In response to receiving a user selection of a media identifier the client device such as client device that provided the media search query can transmit a request to a service provide or any other suitable content source for the selected media asset. For example upon selecting a media identifier associated with a media asset e.g. selecting Mathilda The Professional from interface the client device can provide the user with an opportunity to set a reminder for the media asset record the media asset tune to a channel providing the media asset if currently available purchase and or retrieve the media asset e.g. from a video on demand service from an over the top content provider etc. etc.

In some implementations any suitable computer readable media can be used for storing instructions for performing the processes described herein. For example in some implementations computer readable media can be transitory or non transitory. For example non transitory computer readable media can include media such as magnetic media such as hard disks floppy disks etc. optical media such as compact discs digital video discs Blu ray discs etc. semiconductor media such as flash memory electrically programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM etc. any suitable media that is not fleeting or devoid of any semblance of permanence during transmission and or any suitable tangible media. As another example transitory computer readable media can include signals on networks in wires conductors optical fibers circuits any suitable media that is fleeting and devoid of any semblance of permanence during transmission and or any suitable intangible media.

It should be understood that the above described steps of the processes of can be executed or performed in any order or sequence not limited to the order and sequence shown and described in the figures. Also some of the above steps of the processes of can be executed or performed substantially simultaneously where appropriate or in parallel to reduce latency and processing times.

It should also be noted that as used herein the term mechanism can encompass hardware software firmware or any suitable combination thereof.

Although the invention has been described and illustrated in the foregoing illustrative implementations it is understood that the present disclosed subject matter has been made only by way of example and that numerous changes in the details of implementation of the invention can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention which is limited only by the claims that follow. Features of the disclosed implementations can be combined and rearranged in various ways.

