---

title: Pain management with stimulation subthreshold to paresthesia
abstract: Devices, systems and methods are provided for treating pain while minimizing or eliminating possible complications and undesired side effects, particularly the sensation of paresthesia. This is achieved by stimulating in proximity to a dorsal root ganglion with stimulation energy in a manner that will affect pain sensations without generating substantial sensations of paresthesia. In some embodiments, such neurostimulation takes advantage of anatomical features and functions particular to the dorsal root ganglion.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09468762&OS=09468762&RS=09468762
owner: 
number: 09468762
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20150205
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 753 326 entitled PAIN MANAGEMENT WITH STIMULATION SUBTHRESHOLD TO PARESTHESIA filed Jan. 29 2013 Publication No. US 2013 0144359 A1 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 730 908 entitled PAIN MANAGEMENT WITH STIMULATION SUBTHRESHOLD TO PARESTHESIA filed Mar. 24 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 380 318 which claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 163 007 entitled PAIN MANAGEMENT WITH SUBTHRESHOLD STIMULATION filed Mar. 24 2009 each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

For more than 30 years spinal cord stimulation SCS has been used to treat a variety of pain syndromes. The goal of SCS is to create paresthesia that completely and consistently covers the painful areas yet does not cause uncomfortable sensations in other areas. Paresthesia may be defined as a sensation of tingling pricking or numbness in an area of the body. It is more generally known as the feeling of pins and needles . In some instances the feeling of paresthesia is preferred over the feeling of pain. In SCS paresthesia production is accomplished by stimulating A fibers in the dorsal column and or the dorsal roots. Dorsal column stimulation typically causes paresthesia in several dermatomes at and below the level of the stimulator. In contrast dorsal root stimulation activates fibers in a limited number of rootlets in close proximity to the stimulator and causes paresthesia in only a few dermatomes. Because of these factors dorsal root stimulation with an SCS stimulator may not produce sufficient pain relief. In addition stimulation of the roots with an SCS stimulator can cause uncomfortable sensations and motor responses. These side effects may occur at pulse amplitudes that are below the value needed for full paresthesia coverage. Therefore the clinical goal of SCS is to produce an electrical field that stimulates the relevant spinal cord structures without stimulating the nearby nerve root.

Intraspinal nerve root stimulation is a technique related to SCS except that electrodes are placed along the nerve rootlets in the lateral aspect of the spinal canal this area is known as the gutter rather than over the midline of the spinal cord. The electrodes are mounted on a cylindrical lead rather than on a traditional SCS paddle lead. The accuracy of the leads placement within the gutter is confirmed by stimulating the nerve roots at perceptible levels which result in paresthesia in the local area. Sensory paresthesia may be generated by stimulating at a level above the threshold for sensory recruitment. This may be used in conjunction with SCS to treat certain pain conditions.

For some patients paresthesia is an undesired effect and is not a well tolerated alternative to pain. Therefore improved treatments are needed to provide pain relief with minimal undesired effects. At least some of these objectives will be met by the present invention.

The present invention provides devices systems and methods for treating conditions such as pain while minimizing or eliminating possible complications and undesired side effects. In particular the devices systems and methods treat pain without generating substantial sensations of paresthesia. This is achieved by stimulating in proximity to a dorsal root ganglion with specific stimulation energy levels as will be described in more detail herein.

In a first aspect of the present invention a method is provided of treating pain in a patient comprising positioning a lead having at least one electrode disposed thereon so that at least one of the at least one electrode is in proximity to a dorsal root ganglion and providing stimulation energy to the at least one of the at least one electrode so as to stimulate at least a portion of the dorsal root ganglion. Together the positioning of the lead step and the providing stimulation energy step affect pain sensations without generating substantial sensations of paresthesia.

In some embodiments providing stimulation energy comprises providing stimulation energy at a level below a threshold for A fiber recruitment. And in some embodiments providing stimulation energy comprises providing stimulation energy at a level below a threshold for A fiber cell body recruitment.

In other embodiments providing stimulation energy comprises a providing stimulation energy at a level above a threshold for A fiber cell body recruitment b providing stimulation energy at a level above a threshold for C fiber cell body recruitment c providing stimulation energy at a level above a threshold for small myelenated fiber cell body recruitment or d providing stimulation energy at a level above a threshold for unmyelenated fiber cell body recruitment.

In still other embodiments providing stimulation energy comprises providing stimulation energy at a level which is capable of modulating glial cell function within the dorsal root ganglion. For example in some embodiments providing stimulation energy comprises providing stimulation energy at a level which is capable of modulating satellite cell function within the dorsal root ganglion. In other embodiments providing stimulation energy comprises providing stimulation energy at a level which is capable of modulating Schwann cell function within the dorsal root ganglion.

In yet other embodiments providing stimulation energy comprises providing stimulation energy at a level which is capable of causing at least one blood vessel associated with the dorsal root ganglion to release an agent or send a cell signal which affects a neuron or glial cell within the dorsal root ganglion.

In some embodiments positioning the lead comprises advancing the lead through an epidural space so that at least a portion of the lead extends along a nerve root sleeve angulation. And in some instances advancing the lead through the epidural space comprises advancing the lead in an antegrade direction.

In a second aspect of the present invention a method is provided for treating a patient comprising selectively stimulating a small fiber cell body within a dorsal root ganglion of the patient while excluding an A fiber cell body with the dorsal root ganglion of the patient. In some embodiments the small fiber body comprises an A fiber cell body. In other embodiments the small fiber body comprises a C fiber cell body.

In a third aspect of the present invention a method is provided for treating a patient comprising identifying a dorsal root ganglion associated with a sensation of pain by the patient and neuromodulating at least one glial cell within the dorsal root ganglion so as to reduce the sensation of pain by the patient. In some embodiments the at least one glial cell comprises a satellite cell. In other embodiments the at least one glial cell comprises a Schwann cell. And in some embodiments neuromodulating comprises providing stimulation at a level that reduces the sensation of pain without generating substantial sensations of paresthesia.

In a fourth aspect of the present invention a method is provided for treating a patient comprising positioning a lead having at least one electrode disposed thereon so that at least one of the at least one electrode is in proximity to a dorsal root ganglion and providing stimulation energy to the at least one electrode so as to stimulate at least one blood vessel associated with the dorsal root ganglion in a manner that causes the at least one blood vessel to release an agent which neuromodulates a neuron within the dorsal root ganglion. In some embodiments the agent comprises a neuromodulatory chemical that affects the function of neurons involved in pain sensory transduction.

In a fifth aspect of the present invention a system is provided for treating pain in a patient comprising a lead having at least one electrode disposed thereon wherein the lead is configured for placement in proximity to a dorsal root ganglion and a pulse generator configured to provide stimulation energy to the at least one of the at least one electrode while the lead is positioned in proximity to the dorsal root ganglion so as to stimulate at least a portion of the dorsal root ganglion in a manner which affects pain sensations without generating substantial sensations of paresthesia.

In some embodiments the pulse generator provides stimulation energy at a level at below a threshold for A fiber recruitment. In other embodiments the pulse generator provides stimulation energy at a level below a threshold for A fiber cell body recruitment. In other embodiments the pulse generator provides stimulation energy at a level above a threshold for A fiber cell body recruitment. In still other embodiments the pulse generator provides stimulation energy at a level above a threshold for C fiber cell body recruitment. In some embodiments the pulse generator provides stimulation energy at a level above a threshold for small myelenated fiber cell body recruitment. And in some embodiments the pulse generator provides stimulation energy at a level above a threshold for unmyelenated fiber cell body recruitment.

In some embodiments the pulse generator provides stimulation energy at a level which is capable of modulating glial cell function within the dorsal root ganglion. For example in some embodiments the pulse generator provides stimulation energy at a level which is capable of modulating satellite cell function within the dorsal root ganglion. In other embodiments the pulse generator provides stimulation energy at a level which is capable of modulating Schwann cell function within the dorsal root ganglion.

In some instances the pulse generator provides stimulation energy at a level which is capable of causing at least one blood vessel associated with the dorsal root ganglion to release an agent or send a cell signal which affects a neuron or glial cell within the dorsal root ganglion.

And in some embodiments the lead is configured to be advanced in an antegrade direction through an epidural space and positioned so that at least a portion of the lead extends along a nerve root sleeve angulation.

Other objects and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the detailed description to follow together with the accompanying drawings.

The present invention provides devices systems and methods for treating pain while minimizing or eliminating possible complications and undesired side effects particularly the sensation of paresthesia. This is achieved by stimulating in proximity to a dorsal root ganglion with stimulation energy in a manner that will affect pain sensations without generating substantial sensations of paresthesia. In some embodiments such neurostimulation takes advantage of anatomical features and functions particular to the dorsal root ganglion as will be described in more detail below. The devices systems and methods are minimally invasive therefore reducing possible complications resulting from the implantation procedure and targeted so as to manage pain sensations with minimal or no perceptions such as paresthesia.

In some embodiments stimulation of a DRG according to the present invention is achieved with the use of a lead having at least one electrode thereon. The lead is advanced through the patient anatomy so that the at least one electrode is positioned on near about or in proximity to the target DRG. The lead and electrode s are sized and configured so that the electrode s are able to minimize or exclude undesired stimulation of other anatomies.

Referring to the opposite is true of cell bodies compared to nerve fibers. Generally it takes less current to recruit or modulate a smaller cell body or soma membrane than a larger one. Thus as shown in when low stimulation is provided in region A to the cell bodies SM SM the smaller diameter cell bodies SM are selectively stimulated before the larger diameter cell bodies SM . This is due to the relatively smaller charge it takes to effectively modulate membrane function of a smaller cell body. However when low stimulation is provided in region B to the axons AX AX the larger axons AX are stimulated before the smaller axons AX. Referring back to since the cell bodies or somas are located within the DRG region A generally corresponds to the DRG and region B generally corresponds to the dorsal root DR.

When a patient experiences pain the nociceptive or painful stimuli are transduced from peripheral structures to the central nervous systems through small diameter thinly myelinated and unmyelinated afferent nerve fibers or axons AX. Electrically these fibers are more difficult to selectively target since larger diameter fibers or axons AX are preferentially activated by electrical currents based upon the above described size principle. These larger fibers AX are associated with sensory stimuli such as light touch pressure and vibration and well as paresthesia such as generated by SCS.

The present invention provides methods and devices for preferentially neuromodulating the smaller diameter axon smaller soma neurons over the larger diameter axon larger soma neurons. This in turn interrupts pain transmission while minimizing or eliminating paresthesia. Referring again to an example is illustrated of a lead positioned so that at least one of the electrodes is disposed so as to selectively stimulate the DRG while minimizing or excluding undesired stimulation of other anatomies such as portions of the dorsal root DR. This allows the smaller diameter axon smaller soma neurons to be recruited before the larger diameter axon larger soma neurons. Consequently these neurons involved in pain transduction can be modulated without producing paresthesias. This is achieved with the use of less current or lower power stimulation i.e. stimulation at a subthreshold level to paresthesia. The effect of this preferential targeted neuromodulation is analgesia without resultant paresthesias. In addition lower power stimulation means lower power consumption and longer battery life.

Conventional spinal stimulation systems typically provide stimulation with a frequency of about 30 120 Hz. In contrast therapeutic benefits have been achieved with the devices and methods described herein at stimulation frequencies below those used in conventional stimulation systems. In one aspect the stimulation frequency used for the DRG stimulation methods described herein is less than 25 Hz. In other aspects the stimulation frequency could be even lower such as in the range of less than 15 Hz. In still other aspects the stimulation frequency is below 10 Hz. In one specific embodiment the stimulation frequency is 5 Hz. In another specific embodiment the stimulation frequency is 2 Hz. In addition to lower stimulation frequencies other stimulation patterns for the inventive devices and methods are also lower than those used in conventional stimulation systems. For example embodiments of the present invention have achieved repeatable dermatome specific pain relief using a stimulation signal having an amplitude of less than 500 microamps a pulse width of less than 120 microseconds and a low stimulation frequency as discussed above. It is believed that embodiments of the present invention can achieve dermatome specific pain relief using signals having pulse widths selected within the range of 60 microseconds to 120 microseconds. It is believed that embodiments of the present invention can achieve dermatome specific pain relief using a signal having an amplitude of about 200 microamps. In one specific example repeatable dermatome specific pain relief was achieved in an adult female using a signal with an amplitude of 200 microamps a pulse width of 60 microseconds and a frequency of 2 Hz. It may also be appreciated that other suitable stimulation signal parameters may be used along such as provided in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 607 009 entitled SELECTIVE STIMULATION SYSTEMS AND SIGNAL PARAMETERS FOR MEDICAL CONDITIONS filed Oct. 27 2009 now Publication No. US 2010 0137938 A1 incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.

In addition to neuronal cells non neuronal cells such as glial cells are located within the DRG. Glial cells surround neurons hold them in place provide nutrients help maintain homeostasis provide electrical insulation destroy pathogens regulate neuronal repair and the removal dead neurons and participate in signal transmission in the nervous system. In addition glial cells help in guiding the construction of the nervous system and control the chemical and ionic environment of the neurons. Glial cells also play a role in the development and maintenance of dysfunction in chronic pain conditions. A variety of specific types of glial cells are found within the DRG such as satellite cells and Schwann cells.

Satellite cells surround neuron cell bodies within the DRG. They supply nutrients to the surrounding neurons and also have some structural function. Satellite cells also act as protective cushioning cells. In addition satellite cells can form gap junctions with neurons in the DRG. As opposed to classical chemical transmission in the nervous system gap junctions between cells provide a direct electrical coupling. This in turn can produce a form of a quasi glial neuronal syncytium. Pathophysiologic conditions can change the relationship between glia and cell bodies such that the neurons transducting information about pain can become dysfunctional. Therefore neurostimulation of the DRG can not only directly affect neurons but also impact the function of glial cells. Modulation of glial cell function with neurostimulation can in turn alter neuronal functioning. Such modulation can occur at levels below a threshold for generating sensations of paresthesia.

Another type of glial cells are Schwann cells. Also referred to as neurolemnocytes Schwann cells assist in neuronal survival. In myelinated axons Schwann cells form the myelin sheath. The vertebrate nervous system relies on the myelin sheath for insulation and as a method of decreasing membrane capacitance in the axon. The arrangement of the Schwann cells allows for saltatory conduction which greatly increases speed of conduction and saves energy. Non myelinating Schwann cells are involved in maintenance of axons. Schwann cells also provide axon support trophic actions and other support activities to neurons within the DRG.

Referring again to Schwann cells SWC are illustrated along the axons of a neuron within the DRG. In some embodiments stimulation energy provided by at least one of the electrodes of the lead neuromodulates Schwann cells SWC. Such neuromodulation impacts their function and secondarily impacts the function of associated neurons. Neuromodulation of Schwann cells impacts neuronal processing transduction and transfer of sensory information including pain. Thus DRG stimulation relieves pain in the short and long term by impacting function of Schwann cells. This also may be achieved at stimulation levels below a threshold for generating sensations of paresthesia.

Beyond the neural cells neurons glia etc that are present in the DRG there is a rich network of blood vessels that travel in and about the DRG to encapsulate the DRG and provide a blood supply and oxygen to this highly metabolically active neural structure. schematically illustrates a blood vessel BV associated with and an example DRG. In some embodiments stimulation energy is provided by at least one of the electrodes of the lead . Stimulation of the DRG can cause the release of a variety of agents from the neurons glia and or blood vessels which ultimately impact the function of neurons involved in the transduction and processing of sensory information including pain. For example in some embodiments stimulation of the DRG causes one or more types of neurons and or one or more types of glial cells to release vasoactive agents which affect at least one blood vessel. The at least one blood vessel in turn releases neuronal agents impact the function of neurons in processing pain. Or the at least one blood vessel releases glial active agents which indirectly impacts the function of neurons in processing pain. In other embodiments stimulation of the DRG directly affects the associated blood vessels which provide vessel to neuron cell signaling or vessel to glial cell signaling. Such cell signaling ultimately impacts neuronal function such as by altering metabolic rate or inducing the release of neural responsive chemicals which in turn directly change the cell function. The change in cell function induces analgesia or pain relief in the short term mid term and long term. Such changes may occur at stimulation levels below a threshold for generating sensations of paresthesia.

Desired positioning of a lead near the target anatomy such.as the DRG may be achieved with a variety of delivery systems devices and methods. Referring back to an example of such positioning is illustrated. In this example the lead is inserted epidurally and advanced in an antegrade direction along the spinal cord S. As shown each DRG is disposed along a dorsal root DR and typically resides at least partially between the pedicles PD or within a foramen. Each dorsal root DR exits the spinal cord S at an angle . This angle is considered the nerve root sleeve angulation and varies slightly by patient and by location along the spinal column. However the average nerve root angulation is significantly less than 90 degrees and typically less than 45 degrees. Therefore advancement of the lead toward the target DRG in this manner involves making a sharp turn along the angle . In addition the spatial relationship between the nerve roots DRGs and surrounding structures are significantly influenced by degenerative changes particularly in the lumbar spine. Thus patients may have nerve root angulations which differ from the normal anatomy such as having even smaller angulations necessitating even tighter turns. Turns of this severity are achieved with the use of delivery tools having design features specific to such lead placement.

Referring to an example lead and delivery devices for accessing a target DRG are illustrated. illustrates an embodiment of a lead comprising a shaft having a distal end with four electrodes disposed thereon. It may be appreciated that any number of electrodes may be present including one two three four five six seven eight or more. In this embodiment the distal end has a closed end distal tip . The distal tip may have a variety of shapes including a rounded shape such as a ball shape shown or tear drop shape and a cone shape to name a few. These shapes provide an atraumatic tip for the lead as well as serving other purposes. The lead also includes a stylet lumen which extends toward the closed end distal tip . A delivery system is also illustrated including a sheath stylet and introducing needle .

Referring to an embodiment of a sheath is illustrated. In this embodiment the sheath has a distal end which is pre curved to have an angle wherein the angle is in the range of approximately 80 to 165 degrees. The sheath is sized and configured to be advanced over the shaft of the lead until a portion of its distal end abuts the distal tip of the lead as illustrated in . Thus the ball shaped tip of this embodiment also prevents the sheath from extending thereover. Passage of the sheath over the lead causes the lead to bend in accordance with the precurvature of the sheath . Thus the sheath assists in steering the lead along the spinal column S and toward a target DRG such as in a lateral direction.

Referring back to an embodiment of a stylet is illustrated. The stylet has a distal end which is pre curved so that its radius of curvature is in the range of approximately 0.1 to 0.5. The stylet is sized and configured to be advanced within the stylet lumen of the lead . Typically the stylet extends therethrough so that its distal end aligns with the distal end of the lead . Passage of the stylet through the lead causes the lead to bend in accordance with the precurvature of the stylet . Typically the stylet has a smaller radius of curvature or a tighter bend than the sheath . Therefore as shown in when the stylet is disposed within the lead extension of the lead and stylet through the sheath bends or directs the lead through a first curvature . Further extension of the lead and stylet beyond the distal end of the sheath allows the lead to bend further along a second curvature . This allows the laterally directed lead to now curve around toward the target DRG along the nerve root angulation. This two step curvature allows the lead to be successfully positioned so that at least one of the electrodes is on near or about the target DRG particularly by making a sharp turn along the angle .

Thus the lead does not require stiff or torqueable construction since the lead is not torqued or steered by itself. The lead is positioned with the use of the sheath and stylet which direct the lead through the two step curvature. This eliminates the need for the operator to torque the lead and optionally the sheath with multiple hands. This also allows the lead to have a lower profile as well as a very soft and flexible construction. This in turn minimizes erosion and discomfort created by pressure on nerve tissue such as the target DRG and or the nerve root once the lead is implanted. For example such a soft and flexible lead will minimize the amount of force translated to the lead by body movement e.g. flexion extension torsion .

Referring back to an embodiment of an introducing needle is illustrated. The introducing needle is used to access the epidural space of the spinal cord S. The needle has a hollow shaft and typically has a very slightly curved distal end . The shaft is sized to allow passage of the lead sheath and stylet therethrough. In some embodiments the needle is 14 gauge which is consistent with the size of epidural needles used to place conventional percutaneous leads within the epidural space. However it may be appreciated that other sized needles may also be used particularly smaller .needles such as 16 18 gauge. Likewise it may be appreciated that needles having various tips known to practitioners or custom tips designed for specific applications may also be used. The needle also typically includes a Luer Lok fitting or other fitting near its proximal end. The Luer Lok fitting is a female fitting having a tabbed hub which engages threads in a sleeve on a male fitting such as a syringe.

Methods of approaching a target DRG using such a delivery system is further described and illustrated in U.S. Patent Application No. 61 144 690 filed Jan. 14 2009 incorporated herein by reference for all purposes along with examples of other delivery systems devices and methods applicable to use with the present invention.

It may be appreciated that other types of leads and corresponding delivery systems may be used to position such leads in desired orientations to provide stimulation subthreshold to paresthesia. For example the lead may have a pre curved shape wherein the lead is deliverable through a sheath having a straighter shape such as a substantially straight shape or a curved shape which is has a larger radius of curvature than the lead. Advancement of the lead out of the sheath allows the lead to recoil toward its pre curved shape. Various combinations of curvature between the lead and sheath may allow for a variety of primary and secondary curvatures. Once the lead is desirably placed the sheath may then be removed.

It may also be appreciated that a variety of approaches to the DRG may be used such as an antegrade epidural approach a retrograde epidural approach a transforamenal approach or an extraforaminal approach approaching along a peripheral nerve from outside of the spinal column and a contralateral approach to name a few. Likewise the at least one electrode may be positioned in on or about in proximity to near or in the vicinity of the DRG.

Although the foregoing invention has been described in some detail by way of illustration and example for purposes of clarity of understanding it will be obvious that various alternatives modifications and equivalents may be used and the above description should not be taken as limiting in scope of the invention which is defined by the appended claims.

All publications and patent applications mentioned in this specification are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent application was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.

