---

title: Wireless shared resource computing
abstract: The formation of a wireless device group for use in a computing environment involves establishing a wireless communication connection between a host wireless interface device and each of one or more dependent wireless interface devices, in which each dependent wireless interface device is configured to not directly communicate with a computing device. Another wireless communication connection is established between the host wireless interface device and the computing device when the host wireless interface device is within a host connection distance of the computing device. A further wireless communication connection can be established between the host wireless interface device and a second, different computing device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09621687&OS=09621687&RS=09621687
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09621687
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150831
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 751 587 filed Mar. 31 2010 entitled Wireless Shared Resource Computing the entirety of which is herein incorporated by reference.

Computer users predominately use personal computing devices such as desktop computers to independently handle computing tasks or produce work products. Each of these personal computing devices is generally equipping with its own independent operating system and software applications. However in some instances computer users may also desire to work cooperatively on the same computing task or share in a common computing experience. For example the computer users may desire to concurrently edit the same text document or work on the same multimedia presentation. In such instances each of the computer users may connect his or her personal computer to the other personal computers via networking software and hardware.

In some instances there may be technical or logistical barriers to such current collaboration. For example a network based environment that enables such concurrent collaboration may be based on the use of multiple computing devices of different specification and manufacture which may be difficult to network and expensive to maintain.

Described herein are techniques for the automatic connection of multiple wireless device groups to a computing device or to one of a plurality of computing devices. Implementations herein enable the formation of a wireless device group for use in the shared resource computing environment. The formation involves establishing a wireless communication connection between a host wireless interface device and each of one or more dependent wireless interface devices in which each dependent wireless interface devices is configured to not directly communicate with a computing device. Another wireless communication connection is established between the host wireless interface device and the computing device when the host wireless interface device is within a host connection distance of the computing device.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that is further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Implementations described herein provide techniques for the automatic connection of multiple wireless device groups to a single computing device that provides a shared resource computing SRC environment. For example each of the wireless device groups may enable a corresponding computer user to provide input data to the computing device as well as receive output data from the computing device. A wireless device group may be built around a host wireless interface device. The host wireless interface device may manage anywhere from zero to multiple dependent wireless interface devices. The host wireless interface device may connect its wireless device group to the computing device. In this way the shared resource computing environment as implemented on the single computing device may enable multiple computer users to concurrently collaborate on the same computing task or share in the same computing experience via the wireless device groups. Accordingly the cost and effort that are associated with maintaining multiple computing devices as well as a computer network for the purpose of concurrent collaboration on a computing task or sharing in a common computing experience may be reduced or eliminated.

In various implementations the multiple users may collaborate on the same computing task or share in a common computing experience via one or more desktop sessions of the shared resource environment. For example the one or more desktop session may be running on the single computing device. Each desktop session may be an environment which may be presented as a window in which multiple users may interact with each other by concurrently entering user input as well as viewing the outcome generated by the user input and or the reactions of other computer users to the input. For example a desktop session may enable the multiple users to simultaneously edit a document cooperatively solve a puzzle or play a multi player game.

In some implementations the formation of a wireless device group for use in the shared resource computing environment may involve using a host wireless interface device to detect a companion wireless device within a device proximity range. As such if the detected companion device is a dependent wireless interface device that is incapable of directly communicating with a computing device or configured to not directly communicate with the computing device the host wireless interface device may directly establish a wireless communication connection with dependent wireless interface device. However when the detected companion device is another host wireless interface device the host wireless interface device may negotiate a communication relationship with the other host wireless interface device and may establish a wireless communication connection with the other host wireless interface device based on the negotiated communication relationship.

Through the use of the shared resource computing environment and multiple wireless device groups that connect automatically to the shared resource computing environment the cost and effort of maintaining a network environment for the purpose of concurrent collaboration on a computing task or sharing in a common computing experience may be eliminated. Various examples of the automatic connection of multiple wireless device groups to a single computing device for the purpose of interacting with the desktop session of a shared resource computing environment in accordance with the embodiments are described below with reference to .

The example architecture may be implemented on a computing device . The computing device may be capable of simultaneously receiving a plurality of user inputs from multiple wireless device groups as well as providing processed data to the users via the multiple wireless device groups. In various embodiments the computing device may be a desktop computer a laptop computer a multimedia computer a server or the like. The computing device may also have wireless communication capabilities that enable the computing device to communicatively connect with the multiple wireless device groups.

In various embodiments each of the wireless device groups may include a host wireless interface device. As used herein host wireless interface device refers to a wireless device that is capable of establishing wireless communication connections with the computing device and one or more dependent user interface devices. A wireless device group may also include one or more dependent wireless interface devices. Further as used herein dependent wireless interface device refers to a wireless device that is capable of establishing a wireless communication connection with a host user interface device and using that communication connection to communicate with other dependent user interface devices. However the dependent wireless interface device may be incapable of or not configured for directly establishing a wireless communication connection with the computing device . In other words the host wireless interface device may act as a hub that communicatively connects the dependent wireless interface devices to each other and to the computing device so that the linked devices may electronically exchange data. Accordingly as further described below each of the devices in the wireless device groups may have wireless communication capabilities.

For example as shown in a wireless device group may include a monitor that is a host wireless interface device. The wireless device group may further include a keyboard a mouse another monitor a smart phone and a digital camera that are dependent wireless interface devices. Accordingly each of the dependent wireless interface devices may wirelessly connect to the host wireless interface device that is the monitor . In turn the monitor may wirelessly connect to the computing device via the wireless communication connection .

Likewise a wireless device group may include a keyboard that is a host wireless interface device. The wireless device group may further include a monitor and a game console that are dependent wireless interface devices. Accordingly the dependent wireless interface devices may wirelessly connect to the host wireless interface device that is the keyboard . In turn the keyboard may wirelessly connect to the computing device via the wireless communication connection .

However in some instances a wireless device group may include only a host wireless interface device without any dependent wireless interface devices. This may be due to the fact that no dependent wireless interface devices have yet to join the wireless device group. For example a wireless device group n may include a digital video camera that is a host wireless interface device. The digital video camera may be wirelessly connected to the computing device via the wireless communication connection .

In various embodiments a host wireless interface device such as the monitor may automatically connect to the computing device when the host wireless interface device is within a predetermined host connection distance from the computing device . In such an embodiment when the host wireless interface device determines that it is within the predetermined host connection distance of the computing device the host wireless interface device may initiate a communication connection with the computing device . The communication connection may be established when the computing device accepts the connection request. For example the monitor may establish a wireless communication connection with the computing device when it is moved to a location that is within 25 feet of the computing device .

In other embodiments the communication negotiation between the host wireless interface device and the computing device may also work in reverse that is with the computing device initiating a communication connection when the host wireless interface device is within the predetermined host connection range. In such embodiments the communication connection may be established when the host wireless interface device accepts the connection request.

The various dependent wireless interface devices in a wireless device group may also automatically connect with the host wireless interface device when each dependent wireless interface device is placed within a predetermined device connection distance of the host wireless interface device. Returning to the example of the wireless device group when the keyboard is placed within three feet of the monitor the keyboard and the monitor may automatically establish a communication connection with each other. In such embodiments the communication connection may be initiated by a dependent wireless interface device and accepted by the host wireless interface device or vice versa. Once a dependent wireless interface device has establish a communication connection with a host wireless interface device the dependent wireless interface device may have the ability to exchange data with 1 the connected host wireless interface device 2 the computing device that is connected with the host wireless interface device and 3 one or more other dependent wireless interface devices that are connected with the host wireless interface device. For example when the keyboard dependent wireless interface device is placed within three feet of the monitor host wireless interface device the keyboard and the monitor may establish a wireless communication connection with each other.

The wireless communication connections described in may be based on any wireless radio frequency RF communication technology. For example but not as a limitation the various wireless communication technologies may include cellular network Wireless Fidelity Wifi World Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMax Bluetooth Wireless Universal Serial Bus USB Ultra wideband UWB and or the like. Further a wireless device in any of the wireless groups such as the monitor may include hardware and or software implementations of any combination of one or more radio frequency RF communication technologies. In this way cross compatibility between different devices may be increased. For example the monitor may communicate with the keyboard via Wireless USB while simultaneously communicate with the mouse via Bluetooth . In at least one embodiment when any two wireless devices are both equipped with multiple compatible wireless communication hardware software the two wireless devices may automatically default to the wireless communication hardware software that provides the fastest data transfer rate.

In various embodiments the computing device may provide a shared resource computing environment . Thus computer users may access one or more desktop sessions such as the desktop sessions n that are included in shared resource computing environment . Each of the desktop sessions n may be a workspace where a single computer user may engage in a computing task or where a plurality of computer users may collaborate on the same computing task or share in a common computing experience.

For example as shown in the desktop session may be running a multi user word processing application that enables computer users to concurrently edit a document via the wireless device groups and respectively. As used herein concurrently may refer to the simultaneous or the sequential input of data to produce a result. Likewise the desktop session n may be running a video application that enables a second computer user to upload videos via the user wireless device group n .

The desktop sessions of the shared resource computing environment such as the desktop sessions n may be administered by an administrator using an administrative session . The administrator may interact with the administrative session using a user interface that is connected to the computing device via a communication connection . In at least one embodiment the user interface may be a wireless device group that includes a keyboard a monitor and or a mouse not shown . The user interface may also enable the administrator to control the communication connections between the computing device and the various wireless device groups n . For example the administrator may use the administration session to cause the computing device to refuse a communication connection request from a host wireless interface device terminate a communication connection to a host wireless interface device and or the like.

It will be appreciated that the wireless device groups n are illustrative rather than limiting and that any number of wireless device groups may simultaneously form communication connections with the computing device in other embodiments. Moreover the wireless devices in each group are not limited to those shown in and any electronic device may be equipped with the ability to join a wireless device group in the various embodiments.

The memory may include volatile and or nonvolatile memory removable and or non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Such memory may include but is not limited to random accessory memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices RAID storage systems or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and is accessible by a computer system.

The memory may store the selected components of the shared resource computing device . The components may be in the form of routines programs objects and data structures that cause the performance of particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. In various embodiments the components may include an operating system module a transceiver module a connection module a device authentication module an administration module a desktop session module and a data storage module .

The operating system module may include at least one operating system that enables the computing device to receive data via various inputs e.g. user controls network interfaces and or memory devices and processes data using the one or more processors to generate output. The operating system may also include a display function that presents the output e.g. displays the output on an electronic display stores data in memory transmits data to another electronic device etc. . The operating system may further provide resources and services for the implementation and execution of various applications such as one or more applications stored in the data storage module . In various embodiments the operating system may include a window based graphical user interface GUI architecture that presents a desktop as the primary environment for computer users to interact with the operating system and applications. Additionally the operating system may perform various other functions generally associated with such a system.

In some embodiments the operating system module may also include platform virtualization functionalities that enable the computing device to perform hypervisor functionalities that is host multiple operating systems concurrently with the same underlying hardware resource.

The transceiver module may enable the other modules of the computing device to exchange data with other wireless devices via the wireless transceivers . In various embodiments the transceiver module may include software that facilitates the operations of the wireless transceivers e.g. protocol layer network layer link layer transport layer application layer session layer encryption layer and or the like . Accordingly the transceiver module may transmit output data that is generated by the various modules of the computing device to the other wireless devices as well as receive input data from the other wireless devices.

In various embodiments rather than being a separate module the transceiver module may be an integral part of the operating system module . In alternative embodiments the transceiver module may be a built in component of the one or more operating systems that are stored in the operating system module .

The connection module may use the transceiver module to detect and communicate with the host wireless interface devices. In at least one embodiment the connection module may detect the host wireless interface devices by broadcast an identifier signal and monitor for reply signals from the host wireless interface devices for establishing communication connections. In other embodiments the connection module may monitor for identifier signals from the host wireless interface devices and transmit reply signals to establish communication connections. The connection module may establish communication connections with one or more host wireless interface devices using a variety of protocols depending on the RF communication technologies used by those host wireless interface devices. For example the computing device may communicate with a first host wireless interface device e.g. the monitor of the wireless device group via UWB while simultaneously communicate with a second host wireless interface device e.g. keyboard via Bluetooth .

In various embodiments the connection module may have the ability to determine the distance between itself and a particular host wireless interface device. In at least one of such embodiments the connection module may determine this distance based on the strength of the signal received from the particular host wireless interface device. In other embodiments in which both the computing device and the particular host wireless interface device have global positioning system GPS hardware and or software the computing device may rely on GPS position data to determine its distance to the particular host wireless interface device. In still other embodiments in which the computing device has the ability to exchange data with other similar shared resource computing devices or in which the particular host wireless interface device uses cellular communication technology the computing device may use signal triangulation to determine the location and therefore the distance to the particular computing device . Nevertheless it will be appreciated that the above embodiments of distance determination are illustrative rather than limiting and that a combination of one or more of the above distance determination techniques as well as other distance determination techniques may be implemented by the connection module in additional embodiments.

In at least one embodiment the connection module may automatically connect the computing device with a host wireless interface device when the host wireless interface device is within a predetermined distance e.g. 25 feet of the computing device . Moreover as further described below the connection module may also disconnect a host wireless interface device from the computing device on an automatic basis or in response to a user input.

The device authentication module may be used by the connection module to authenticate a host wireless interface device based on authentication credentials. In this way the connection module may control access to the shared resource computing environment . The authentication module may authenticate a host wireless interface device based on device characteristics and or characteristics of the user that are submitted via the host wireless interface device. For example the device characteristics may include but are not limited to a device identifier an encrypted key that is stored on the host wireless interface device and or the like. The user characteristics may include but are not limited to a user name a password an electronic certificate biometric characteristics and or the like. Accordingly in various embodiments the device authentication module may cause a host wireless interface device to prompt a user to provide a user characteristic to the device authentication module prior to establishing a communication connection with the host wireless interface device. For example when the host wireless interface device is a keyboard that includes a thumbprint reader the device authentication module may cause the keyboard to flash an indicator light that alerts the user to input his or her thumbprint via the thumbprint reader. Following authentication by the device authentication module the connection module may establish a communication connection with the host wireless interface device.

The administration module may enable the administrator to manage the desktop sessions n as well as manage the interaction of the computing device with the host wireless interface devices. In various embodiments the administration module may generate an administrative session such as the administrative session described in . As previously described the administration session may enable an administrator to refuse a communication connection request from a host wireless interface device terminate a communication connection to a host wireless interface device and or the like.

The desktop session module may generate the shared resource computing environment that includes one or more desktop sessions such as the desktop sessions n shown in . As described with respect to each of the desktop sessions may be a workspace where a single computer user may engage in a computing task or where a plurality of computer users may concurrently collaborate on the same computing task or share in a common computing experience. In various embodiments the desktop session module may present each of the desktop sessions as a window in a desktop of a window based operating system. The multiple computer users may concurrently interact with the one or more applications within each of the desktop sessions.

The data storage module may store data used by the shared resource computing environment . The data storage module may store one or more applications and the data . The applications may be applications that are executed in the desktop sessions n of the shared resource computing environment . The data may include data that is used by the various modules of the computing device to implement the shared resource computing environment . In various embodiments the data may include authentication data used by the authentication module data on the host wireless interface devices and wireless device groups data and states of the desktop sessions and or the like.

The memory may include volatile and or nonvolatile memory removable and or non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Such memory may include but is not limited to random accessory memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices RAID storage systems or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and is accessible by a computer system.

The memory may store the selected components of the wireless device . The components may be in the form of routines programs objects and data structures that cause the performance of particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. In various embodiments the components may include a wireless interface module a host connection module a device connection module a user interface module an authentication module and a data storage module .

The wireless interface module may enable the other modules of the wireless device to exchange data with other wireless devices via the wireless transceivers . In various embodiments the wireless interface module may include software that facilitates the operations of the wireless transceivers e.g. protocol layer network layer link layer transport layer application layer session layer encryption layer and or the like . Accordingly the wireless interface module may further enable output data that is generated by the various modules of the wireless device to be provided to other wireless devices as well as receive input data from the other wireless devices.

The host connection module may use the wireless interface module to detect and communicate with the computing device . In at least one embodiment the host connection module may detect the computing device by broadcast an identifier signal and monitor for reply signals from the computing device for establishing communication connections. In other embodiments the host connection module may monitor for identifier signals from the computing device and transmit reply signals to establish communication connections. The host connection module may establish communication connections with the computing device using a variety of protocols depending on the RF communication technology of the computing device .

In various embodiments the host connection module may have the ability to determine the distance between the host wireless interface device and the computing device . In at least one of such embodiments the host connection module may determine this distance based on the strength of the signal received from the particular host wireless interface device. In other embodiments in which both the host wireless interface device and the computing device have global positioning system GPS hardware and or software the host wireless interface device may rely on GPS position data to determine its distance to the particular host wireless interface device. Nevertheless it will be appreciated that the above embodiments of distance determination is illustrative rather than limiting and that a combination of one or more of the above distance determination techniques as well as other distance determination techniques may be implemented by the host connection module in additional embodiments.

In at least one embodiment the host connection module may automatically connect with the computing device when the host wireless interface device is within a predetermined distance e.g. 25 feet of the computing device . As further described below the host connection module may also disconnect the host wireless interface device from the computing device on an automatic basis or in response to a user input.

The device connection module may use the wireless interface module to detect and communicate with other wireless devices such as other host wireless interface devices and dependent wireless interface devices. In at least one embodiment the host device connection module may detect another wireless device by broadcasting an identifier signal and monitoring for reply signals from the other wireless device for establishing communication connections. In other embodiments the device connection module may monitor for identifier signals from the other wireless device and transmit reply signals to establish communication connections. Moreover the device connection module may establish communication connections with the other wireless devices using a variety of protocols depending on the RF communication technology used by each of the other wireless devices. Once communication is establish the device communication module may also automatically exchange device data with the other wireless devices. The device data may include device identifiers device model numbers device type e.g. host wireless interface device or dependent wireless interface device device software and or hardware versions current status of connection with a SRC computer and or the like.

In various embodiments the device connection module may have the ability to determine the distance between the host wireless interface device and each of the other wireless devices. In at least one of such embodiments the device connection module may determine this distance based on the strength of the signal received from the other wireless device such as a host wireless interface device or a dependent wireless interface device. In other embodiments in which both the host wireless interface device and the other wireless device have global positioning system GPS hardware and or software the host wireless interface device may rely on GPS position data to determine its distance to the particular host wireless interface device. Nevertheless it will be appreciated that the above embodiments of distance determination are illustrative rather than limiting and that a combination of one or more of the above distance determination techniques as well as other distance determination techniques may be implemented by the device connection module in additional embodiments.

In at least one embodiment the device connection module may automatically connect with another wireless device e.g. another host wireless interface device or dependent wireless interface device when the host wireless interface device is within a predetermined device connection distance e.g. three feet of the other wireless device. As further described below the device connection module may also disconnect the host wireless interface device from another wireless device on an automatic basis or in response to a user input.

The user interface module may enable a user to control the behavior of the host connection module and or the device connection module . In various embodiments the user interface module may generate a user interface menu and or indicators that show the host wireless interface device as connecting to the computing device or another wireless device. In turn the user interface device may receive one or more user inputs that approve the connection or aborts the connection. For example in an instance in which the host wireless interface device is the monitor described in the user interface module may provide an on screen display OSD menu that indicates the host wireless interface device is connecting to a computing device . The OSD menu may also present a user with the option of confirming the connection or aborting the connection. Accordingly the user may use control keys located on the monitor to either confirm the connection or abort the connection to the user interface module . In such an example the user interface module may cause the host wireless interface device to default to connecting with the computing device when it does not receive an abort command from the user within a predetermined amount of time.

In another example in which the host wireless interface device is the keyboard further described in the user interface module may indicate to the user that it is in the process of connecting to another wireless device e.g. a dependent wireless interface device via a dedicated signal light. Moreover the keyboard may include a specific key that the user may press to confirm to the user interface module the connection to the other wireless device as well as another specific key for indicating to the user interface module to abort the connection. In such an example the user interface module may cause the host wireless interface device to default to connecting with the dependent wireless interface device when it does not receive an abort command from the user within a predetermined amount of time.

The user interface module may further pass any user input for interacting with the desktop sessions n to the computing device via the host connection module . For example in the instance where the host wireless interface device is the keyboard the user interface module may convey key stroke data entered by a user to the computing device .

The authentication module may provide authentication information to the computing device so that the host wireless interface device may establish a communication connection with the computing device . In some embodiments the authentication module may provide device characteristics. For example the device characteristics may include but are not limited to a device identifier an encrypted key that is stored on the host wireless interface device and or the like. The authentication module may automatically provide the one or more device characteristics as a part of connection establishment procedure. Alternatively the authentication module may provide one or more device characteristics when the user inputs a command via the user interface module .

In other embodiments the authentication module may provide user characteristics. The user characteristics may include but are not limited to a user name a password an electronic certificate biometric characteristics and or the like. Accordingly in various embodiments the authentication module may cause the user interface module to prompt a user for the appropriate user characteristic. For example in an instance in which the host wireless interface device is the monitor described in the authentication module may cause the user interface module to indicate to a user that the user is to enter a password via control keys on the monitor .

The authentication module may further authenticate dependent wireless interface devices that attempt to establish communication connections with the host wireless interface device. In such embodiments the authentication module may store information regarding the proper authentication information that it expects from different types of dependent wireless interface devices in the data storage . Thus the authentication module may prompt a dependent wireless interface device for the authentication information. For example in an instance where the host wireless interface device is the digital video camera the authentication module of the device may dictate that a dependent wireless interface device that is a keyboard is to be authenticated via the optically scanning of a barcode that is located on the keyboard. As such the barcode of the keyboard may store a device identifier.

The data storage module may store data related to the various wireless devices e.g. the computing device other host wireless interface devices and or other dependent wireless interface devices . Such stored data may include current connections with such wireless devices as well as prior connection histories with the wireless devices. The stored data may further include device characteristics and or previously entered user characteristics as well as other data for the operation of the host wireless interface device .

The memory may include volatile and or nonvolatile memory removable and or non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Such memory may include but is not limited to random accessory memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices RAID storage systems or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and is accessible by a computer system.

The memory may store the selected components of the dependent wireless interface device . The components may be in the form of routines programs objects and data structures that cause the performance of particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. In various embodiments the components may include wireless interface module a device connection module a user interface module an authentication module and a data storage module . In various embodiments the modules may function in substantially same way as their counterpart modules in the host wireless interface device .

Nevertheless the modules may facilitate interfacing with a host wireless interface device rather than the computing device . For example the authentication module may communicate with the authentication module to authenticate the dependent wireless interface device to the host wireless interface device . Moreover the dependent wireless interface device may lack a host connection module. Accordingly the dependent wireless interface device may rely on a communication connection with a host wireless interface device to exchange data with the computing device .

While some functionality of the modules of the computing device and the various wireless devices have been described above it will be appreciated that additional functionality of such modules may be further described below with regard to the processes of .

At block the device connection module of a host wireless interface device may search for companion devices with a device proximity range. A companion device may be a dependent wireless interface device or another host wireless interface device. The device proximity range may be a predetermined device connection distance at which the host wireless interface device may automatically establish a communication connection with one or more companion devices.

At decision block the device connection module may determine whether a dependent wireless interface device such as the dependent wireless interface device is detected with the device proximity range. If the device connection module detects that a dependent wireless interface device is within the device proximity range yes at decision block the process may proceed to block . At block the host wireless interface device may establish a communication connection with the dependent wireless interface device. However if the device connection module does not detect that a dependent wireless interface device is within the device proximity range no at decision block the host wireless interface device may proceed to decision block .

At decision block the device connection module may determine whether another host wireless interface device is detected within the device proximity range. If the device connection module detects that another host wireless interface device is within the device proximity range yes at decision block the process may proceed to decision block .

At decision block the device connection module may communicate with the corresponding device connection module of the detected host wireless interface device to determine whether both host wireless interface devices are already connected to a SRC computer e.g. computing device . If the device connection module determines that both host wireless communication devices are already connected to the computing device the process may proceed to block .

At block the device connection module may terminate the attempt to establish a communication connection with the detected host wireless communication device. However if the device connection module determines that not all of the host wireless interface devices are connected to the computing device no at decision block the process may proceed to block .

At block the device connection module may determine its connection relationship with the other host wireless interface device. In various embodiments the device connection module may determine that the host wireless interface device is to connect to the other host wireless interface device as a dependent wireless interface device. Alternatively the device connection module may determine that the other host wireless interface device is to be connected to the host wireless interface device as a dependent wireless interface device. This relationship determination may be further illustrated in . Once the device connection module has made such a relationship determination the process may proceed to decision block .

At block the device connection module of the host wireless interface device may connect the host wireless interface device to the other host wireless interface device based on the determined relationship. Subsequently the process may loop back to block so that the host wireless interface device may search for additional companion devices.

At block the device connection module of the host wireless interface device may initiate a relationship negotiation with a detected host wireless interface device that is within a device proximity range. The device proximity range may be a predetermined device connection distance at which the host wireless interface device may automatically establish a communication connection with one or more companion devices.

At decision block the device connection module may determine whether the host wireless interface device and the detected host wireless interface device are connected to a shared resource computing SRC computer such as the computing device . If the device connection module determines that both of host wireless interface devices are unconnected to the computing device yes at decision block the process may proceed to decision block .

At decision block the device connection module may determine whether the host wireless interface device was previously subservient to the detected wireless host device. In other words the device connection module may determine whether the wireless host device has previously acted as a dependent wireless interface device to the detected host wireless interface device. If the device connection module determines that the host wireless interface device was previously subservient to the detected host wireless interface device yes at decision block the process may proceed to block .

At block the device connection module may cause the host wireless interface device to establish a communication connection to the detected host wireless interface device as a dependent wireless interface device. In other words the host wireless interface device may temporarily suspend its ability to directly connect to the computing device. Instead the host wireless interface device may rely on the detected host wireless interface device to exchange data with the computing device .

In some embodiments a user may provide an input to the device connection module that causes the device connection module to clear its automatic subservient relationship via the user interface module . For example in the instance in which the host wireless interface device is the monitor described in the monitor may have retained a setting that indicates that it is subservient to another host wireless interface device. Accordingly the device connection module may provide an OSD menu option that clears the subservience of the monitor to the other host wireless interface device.

Returning to decision block if the device connection module determines that the host wireless interface device was not previously subservient to the detected host wireless interface device no at decision block the process may proceed to decision block .

At decision block the device connection module may determine whether a grouping the host wireless interface device with the detected host wireless interface device complete a user interface set. In various embodiments a user interface set is a group of devices that provides with the user with the ability to both view data and input data. For example the detected host wireless interface device may be a keyboard that already forms a wireless device group with a dependent wireless interface device that is a mouse. In such an example if the host wireless interface device is a monitor the device connection module may determine that grouping the host wireless interface device with the detected host wireless interface device completes a user interface set. The complete user interface set may enable the user to interface with one or more desktop sessions n of the shared resource computing environment . In another example the detected host wireless interface device may be a portable music player and the host wireless interface device may be a set of speakers. In various embodiments the actual device types that constitute each user interface set may be stored as data in the data storage module .

Accordingly at decision block if the device connection module determines that the grouping of the host wireless interface device with the detected host wireless interface device completes a user interface set yes at decision block the process may proceed back to block . At block the host wireless interface device may act as a dependent wireless interface device to the detected host wireless interface device.

Returning to decision block if the device connection module determines that the grouping of the host wireless interface device with the detected host wireless does not complete a user interface set no at decision block the process may proceed to decision block .

At block decision the device connection module may determine whether the detected host wireless interface device is higher that is has precedence as a host wireless interface device on a hierarchy list than the host wireless interface device . For example the hierarchy list may dictate that for a group of host wireless interface devices a monitor has the highest precedence on the list a keyboard has medium precedence on the list while the digital camera has the lowest precedence on the hierarchy list. In this way such a hierarchy list may serve to enable host wireless interface devices to be deployed according to most common expected usage technology sophistication convenience and or the like. In various embodiments the hierarchy list may be stored as data in the data storage module of the host wireless interface device .

Thus if the device connection module determines that the detected host wireless interface device has higher precedence on the hierarchy list than the host wireless interface device yes at decision block the process may proceed back to block . At block the host wireless interface device may act as a dependent wireless interface device to the detected host wireless interface device. However if the device connection module determines that the detected host wireless does not have higher precedence on the hierarchy list no at decision block the process may proceed to decision block .

At decision block the device connection module may determine whether the detected host wireless interface device is equipped with more recent software and or hardware than the host wireless interface device . In some embodiments the device connection module may make this determination based on the versions of the firmware that reside in the host wireless interface devices being compared. For example the device connection module may be a firmware that is of a newer version than the corresponding device connection module in the detected host wireless interface device. In other embodiments the device connection module may compare the hardware revisions of the various components e.g. processors transceivers to determine which host wireless interface device has more updated hardware components. Accordingly the device connection module may determine that one host wireless interface device is more advanced than another host wireless device based on at least one of hardware version or software version.

Thus if the device connection module determines that the detected host wireless interface device has more advanced e.g. more recent version hardware and or software than the host wireless interface device yes at decision block the process may proceed back to block . At block the host wireless interface device may act as a dependent wireless interface device to the detected host wireless interface device. However if the device connection module determines that the detected host wireless does not have more advanced hardware and or software no at decision block the process may proceed to decision block .

At decision block the device connection module may determine whether the user has provided an input via the user interface that the host wireless interface device is to be subservient to the detected host wireless interface device. In various embodiments the device connection module may be configured to only provide a predetermined time period e.g. 60 seconds from the detection of the other host wireless interface device during the initial relationship negotiation for the user to enter the appropriate user input.

Thus if the device connection module determines that the user provide an input that indicates that the host wireless interface device is to be subservient to the detected host wireless interface device within the predetermined time period yes at decision block the process may proceed back to block . At block the host wireless interface device may act as a dependent wireless interface device to the detected host wireless interface device. However if the device connection module determines that no such user input is received within the predetermined time period no at decision block the process may proceed to decision block .

At decision block the device connection module may cooperate with the device connection module of the detected host wireless interface device to randomly assign one of the wireless host devices as a dependent device of the other host wireless interface device. Thus if the device connection module randomly assigns the host wireless interface device as a dependent device of the detected host wireless interface device yes at decision block the process may proceed to block . At block the host wireless interface device may act as a dependent wireless interface device to the detected host wireless interface device. However if the device connection module randomly assigns the detected host wireless interface device as a dependent device of the host wireless interface device no at decision block the process may proceed to block .

At block the device connection module of the host wireless interface device may cooperatively establish a communication connection with a corresponding module on the detected host wireless interface device. Such a communication connection may cause the detected host wireless interface device to act as a dependent device to the host wireless interface device .

Returning to decision block if the device connection module determines that at least one of the host wireless interface device or the detected host wireless interface device is connected to the computing device no at decision block the process may proceed to block of .

At decision block if the device connection module determines that only the host wireless interface device is connected to the computing device yes at decision block the process may proceed to block . At block the device connection module of the host wireless interface device may establish a communication connection with the detected host wireless interface device. Such a communication connection may cause the detected host wireless interface device to act as a dependent device to the host wireless interface device .

However if the device connection module determines that this is not the case no at decision block it would mean that only the detected wireless device is connected to the computing device . Accordingly the process may proceed to block . At block the device connection module may cause the host wireless interface device to establish a communication connection to the detected host wireless interface device as a dependent wireless interface device.

At decision block the device connection module of the dependent wireless interface device may determine whether the dependent wireless interface device is within a device operation range of a host wireless interface device to which it has established a communication connection. In various embodiments the device operation range may be a predetermined distance that is less than or equal to the predetermined device connection distance between the dependent wireless interface device and the connected host wireless interface device.

Thus if the device connection module determines that the dependent wireless interface device is no longer within the device operation range of host wireless interface device that it has established a communication connection with no at decision block the process may proceed to block . At block the device connection module may terminate the communication connection between the dependent wireless interface device with the current connected host wireless interface device.

However if the device connection module determines at block that the dependent wireless interface device is still within the device operation range of the connected host wireless interface device yes at decision block the process may proceed to decision block .

At decision block the device connection module may determine whether a user input to dissociate or terminate the communication connection between the dependent wireless interface device and the current host wireless interface device is received. In some embodiments the user may provide such an input to the device connection module via the user interface module which may in turn receive the input from one or more hardware switches and or software menus on the dependent wireless interface device . In other embodiments such user input may be received by the device connection of the host wireless interface device in a similar manner. Accordingly if the device connection module or the device connection module determines an input to terminate the communication connection is received yes at decision block the process may loop back to block .

At block the device connection module may terminate the communication connection between the dependent wireless interface device with the current connected host wireless interface device. However if the device connection module determines that no input to terminate the communication connection is received no at decision block the process may proceed to decision block .

At decision block the device connection module may determine whether it has detected a new host wireless interface device that is in closer proximity to the dependent wireless interface device than the current host wireless interface device to which the dependent wireless interface device has already established a communication connection. If the device connection module determines that no closer host wireless interface device has been detected no at decision block the process may loop back to block . At block the dependent wireless interface device may maintain its existing communication connection with the various devices.

However if the device connection module determines that a closer host wireless interface device has been detected yes at decision block the process may proceed to block . At block the device connection module may prompt the user for input regarding whether the dependent wireless interface device is to switch to a communication connection with the detected host wireless interface device. In various embodiments the device connection module may prompt for the user input via the user interface module and may in turn receive the user input from one or more hardware switches and or software menus on the dependent device .

Thus at decision block if the device connection module does not receive an input that commands the dependent wireless interface device to terminate its current communication connection and establish a new communication connection with the newly detected host device no at decision block the process may loop back to block . At block the dependent wireless interface device may maintain its existing communication connection with the various devices.

However if the device connection module receives an input that commands the dependent wireless interface device to terminate its current communication connection and establish a new communication connection with the newly detected host wireless interface device yes at decision block the process may proceed to block . At block the device connection module may terminate the established communication connection with the current host wireless interface device and establish a new communication connection with the newly detected host wireless interface device.

At block the various wireless devices of the wireless device group may exchange communication with the computing device . For example the wireless device group may enable a user to interact with desktop sessions n . The desktop sessions n may be part of the shared resource computing environment that is implemented on the computing device .

At decision block the host connection module may determine whether the host wireless interface device is within a host operation range of the computing device to which it has established a communication connection. In various embodiments the host operation range may be a predetermined distance that is less than or equal to the predetermined host connection distance between the host wireless interface device and the computing device .

Thus if the host connection module determines that the host wireless interface device is no longer within the host operation range of the computing device no at decision block the process may proceed to block . At block the host connection module may dissociates the host wireless interface device from the computing device . In other words terminate the communication connection between the host wireless interface device and the computing device .

However if the host connection module determines at decision block that the host wireless interface device is still within the host operation range of the computing device yes at decision block the process may proceed to block .

At block the host connection module may determine whether a user input to dissociate the host wireless interface device with the current SRC computer that is computing device is received. In some embodiments the user may provide such an input to the host connection module via the user interface module which may in turn receive the input from one or more hardware switches and or software menus on the host wireless interface device . In other embodiments such user input may be received by the connection module of the computing device in a similar manner. For example the administrator may provide such a user input via the administrative session .

Accordingly if the host connection module or the connection module determines an input to terminate the communication connection is received yes at decision block the process may loop back to block . At block the host connection module may dissociates the host wireless interface device from the computing device . However if the host connection module determines that no input to terminate the communication connection is received no at decision block the process may proceed to decision block .

At decision block the host connection module may determine whether it has detected a new SRC computer that is in closer proximity to the host wireless interface device than the currently connected SRC computer that is the computing device . If the host connection module determines that no closer SRC computer has been detected no at decision block the process may loop back to block . At block the host wireless interface device may maintain its existing communication connection with the computing device .

However if the host connection module determines that a closer SRC computer has been detected yes at decision block the process may proceed to block . At block the host connection module may prompt the user for input regarding whether the host wireless interface device is to switch to a communication connection with the newly detected SRC computer. In various embodiments the host connection module may prompt for the user input via the user interface module and may in turn receive the user input from one or more hardware switches and or software menus of the host wireless interface device .

Thus at decision block if the host connection module does not receive an input that commands the host wireless interface device to terminate its current communication connection and establish a new communication connection with the newly detected SRC computer no at decision block the process may loop back to block . At block the host wireless interface device may maintain its existing communication connection with the computing device .

However if the host connection module receives an input that commands the host wireless interface device to terminate its current communication connection and establish a new communication connection with the newly detected host wireless interface device yes at decision block the process may proceed to block . At block the host connection module may terminate the established communication connection with the computing device and establish a new communication connection with the newly detected SRC computer.

At block a user may associate a plurality of wireless devices into wireless device group. The wireless device group may include a host wireless interface device such as the host wireless interface device and one or more dependent wireless interface devices. The wireless device group may be formed when the host wireless interface device and the one or more dependent wireless interface devices mutually establish communication connections when they are placed within a predetermined device connection distance with each other.

At block once the wireless device group is formed the host connection module may determine whether the wireless device group was previously associated with that is used to interact with a desktop session of the shared resource computing environment . For example the user may have previously used the wireless device group with a particular desktop session e.g. desktop session that is now currently active. In some embodiments the host connection module of the host wireless interface device may retain information regarding the association between the wireless device group and one or more past desktop session interactions in the data storage module .

Thus if the host connection module determines that the wireless group was previously associated with the currently active desktop session yes at decision block the process may proceed to block . At block the host connection module may automatically associate the wireless device group with the currently active desktop session so that the wireless device group may enable the user to interact with the currently active desktop session. Subsequently the process may proceed directly to decision block .

However if the host connection module determines that the wireless group was not previously associated with the currently actively desktop session no at decision block the process may proceed to decision block .

At decision block the host connection module may determine whether the wireless device group is to be associated with a new desktop session. In various embodiments the user may cause the host connection module to automatically associate the wireless device group with a new desktop session by using the group to interact with a new desktop session. Thus if the host connection module determines that the wireless device group is to be associated with a new desktop session yes at decision block the process may continue to block . At block the host connection module may associate the wireless device group with the new desktop session. However returning to decision block if the host connection module determines that the wireless device group is not to be associated with a new desktop session no at decision block the process may loop back and reenter decision block . In other words the host connection module may wait for the user to start interacting with a desktop session using the wireless device group.

Returning to decision the host connection module may determine whether the wireless device group is to be dissociated with the currently associated desktop session. In various embodiments the desktop session module may instantiate a desktop session that provide a group dissociation option as part of its menu interface. Accordingly the user may use such a dissociation option to dissociate the wireless interface group. Thus if the host connection module determines that the wireless device group is to be dissociated with the currently associated desktop session yes at decision block the process may proceed to block .

At block the host connection module may dissociate the wireless device group with the currently associated desktop session. In other words the user may no longer use the wireless device group to exchange data with the dissociated desktop session.

However if the host connection module determines that the wireless device group is not to be dissociated with the currently associated desktop session no at decision block the process may proceed to block . At block the host wireless interface device may continue to enable the user to use the wireless device group for interacting with the currently associated desktop session. Subsequently the process may loop back to decision block . At decision block the host connection module may once again determine whether the wireless device group is to be associated with a new desktop session.

At block once the wireless device group is formed the host connection module may determine whether the wireless device group was previously associated with that is used to interact with a particular computing device such as the computing device that is detected within the predetermined host connection distance. In some embodiments the host connection module of the host wireless interface device may retain information regarding the association between the wireless device group and one or more past computing devices in the data storage module . Thus if the host connection module determines that the wireless group was previously associated with the detected computing device yes at decision block the process may proceed to block . At block the host connection module may automatically associate the wireless device group with the computing device so that the wireless device group may enable the user to interact with the computing device . Subsequently the process may proceed directly to decision block .

However if the host connection module determines that the wireless group was not previously associated with the computing device no at decision block the process may proceed to decision block .

At decision block the host connection module may determine whether the wireless device group is to be associated with the computing device . In various embodiments the host connection module may automatically associate the wireless device group with the computing device unless the user provides an input to the host connection module that stops the association with a predetermined time period. In such embodiments the user may provide such an input to the host connection module via the user interface module which may in turn receive the input from one or more hardware switches and or software menus on the host wireless interface device .

Thus if the host connection module determines that the wireless device group is to be associated with the computing device yes at decision block the process may continue to block . At block the host connection module may associate the wireless device group with the computing device .

However returning to decision block if the host connection module determines that the wireless device group is not to be associated with the computing device no at decision block the process may loop back and reenter decision block . In other words the host connection module may wait for the user to provide an input that associates the wireless device group with the computing device .

Returning to decision the host connection module may determine whether the wireless device group is to be dissociated with the currently associated computing device . In various embodiments the user may dissociate the wireless device group from the computing by providing an input to the user interface module . Thus if the host connection module determines that the wireless device group is to be dissociated with the currently associated computing device yes at decision block the process may proceed to block .

At block the host connection module may dissociate the wireless device group with the currently associated computing device . In other words the wireless device group may no longer enable the user to exchange data with the dissociated computing device .

However if the host connection module determines that the wireless device group is not to be dissociated with the currently associated computing device no at decision block the process may proceed to block . At block the host wireless interface device may continue to enable the user to use the wireless device group for interacting with the currently associated computing device . Subsequently the process may loop back to decision block . At decision block the host connection module may once again determine whether the wireless device group is to be associated with a new computing device.

In at least one configuration computing device typically includes at least one processing unit and system memory . Depending on the exact configuration and type of computing device system memory may be volatile such as RAM non volatile such as ROM flash memory etc. or some combination thereof. System memory may include an operating system one or more program modules and may include program data . The operating system includes a component based framework that supports components including properties and events objects inheritance polymorphism reflection and provides an object oriented component based application programming interface API such as but by no means limited to that of the .NET Framework manufactured by the Microsoft Corporation Redmond Wash. The computing device is of a very basic configuration demarcated by a dashed line . Again a terminal may have fewer components but may interact with a computing device that may have such a basic configuration.

Computing device may have additional features or functionality. For example computing device may also include additional data storage devices removable and or non removable such as for example magnetic disks optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by removable storage and non removable storage . Computer storage media may include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. System memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other media which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device . Computing device may also have input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. Output device s such as a display speakers printer etc. may also be included.

Computing device may also contain communication connections that allow the device to communicate with other computing devices such as over a network. These networks may include wired networks as well as wireless networks.

It is appreciated that the illustrated computing device is only one example of a suitable device and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of the various embodiments described. Other well known computing devices systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with the embodiments include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor base systems set top boxes game consoles programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and or the like. The use of the shared resource computing environment and multiple wireless device groups may reduce or eliminate the cost and effort of maintaining a network environment for the purpose of concurrent collaboration on a computing task or share in a common computing experience.

In closing although the various embodiments have been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended representations is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather the specific features and acts are disclosed as exemplary forms of implementing the claimed subject matter.

