---

title: Systems and methods for providing access to available agent
abstract: The availability of one or more agents of an institution to communicate with a user may be determined and reported to the user. An application on a user computing device may provide an indication as to how many agents are currently available to speak with the user and/or a wait time until an agent becomes available. The user computing device may display a call icon that the user may select to place a call to an available agent. The user computing device may display a call icon that the user may select to receive a callback from an available agent. Call volume statistics may be provided to the user and may be used to determine when an agent is most likely unavailable and/or most likely available.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09473638&OS=09473638&RS=09473638
owner: United Services Automobile Association (USAA)
number: 09473638
owner_city: San Antonio
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151110
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 166 101 filed on Jan. 28 2014 entitled Systems and Method for Providing Access to Available Agent issued as U.S. Pat. No. 9 185 221 on Nov. 10 2015 which itself is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 362 260 filed on Jan. 29 2009 entitled Systems and Method for Providing Access to Available Agent issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 638 925 on Jan. 28 2014 the entirety of both of which are incorporated by reference herein.

When a user calls an institution to speak with an agent many times the user has to wait on a queue to speak with the agent. The user may decide not to wait and hang up. In this manner the user may delay or never speak with an agent which may cost the institution good will and or a transaction of products or services with the user.

Additionally when a user calls an institution to speak with an agent the user often is put on hold and transferred to a new location and put on hold before being able to speak with the agent. This often is a time consuming and frustrating experience for the user. A user is not well served if they have difficulty speaking with an institution s agent.

The availability of one or more agents of an institution to communicate with a user may be determined and reported to the user. An application on a user computing device may provide an indication as to how many agents are currently available to speak with the user if the user were to immediately phone in to the institution and or a wait time such as an estimated wait time until an agent becomes available. One or more call icons may be provided on the user computing device that the user may select to place a call to an available agent via the user computing device or that the user may select to receive a callback from an available agent.

In an implementation a call may be established between a user and an available agent via any type of phone such as a wired or wireless phone a mobile phone a cellular phone a smartphone a voice over Internet protocol VOIP phone or a softphone. The call may be established automatically when an agent becomes available or upon selection of a call icon by the user. The call may be initiated at the user side or at the institution or agent side.

In an implementation call volume statistics pertaining to one or more agents may be provided to the user via the user computing device. The call volume statistics may comprise information that may be used to determine when an agent or a group of agents e.g. that share particular characteristics is most likely unavailable and or most likely available. Such information may comprise an average number of calls an agent handles in a particular time period an average amount of time an agent spends on the phone in a particular time period an average length of time between calls handled by an agent in a particular time period etc.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

The institution system may comprise a computer telephony integration CTI application . CTI is a technology that allows interactions on a telephone and a computer to be integrated or coordinated. As contact channels have expanded from voice to include email web and facsimile the definition of CTI has expanded to include the integration of user contact channels voice email web facsimile etc. with computer systems.

The following example functions may be implemented using CTI call information display e.g. caller s number number dialed and screen population on answer with or without using calling line data automatic dialing and computer controlled dialing fast dial preview and predictive dial phone control e.g. answer hang up hold conference coordinated phone and data transfers between two parties call center phone control e.g. logging on after call work notification advanced functions such as call routing reporting functions automation of desktop activities and multi channel blending of phone email and web requests and agent state control e.g. after call work for a set duration then automatic change to the ready state .

The CTI application may manage the event flow that is generated by the telephony switch during the life cycle of a call. This typically proceeds along the following sequence set up deliver ringing establish answer clear hang up and end. Other call events that can be handled by the CTI application may include hold retrieve from hold conference transfer and forward for example. The CTI application may handle events related to automated call distribution such as agent logged in agent available agent not available agent ready and agent not ready for example.

A CTI application may be provided in a thick client arrangement or a thin client arrangement depending on the implementation. In a thick client arrangement a CTI application may be installed on a local hard drive of each agent s computer. Thus in a thick client arrangement not shown each agent computing device may act as a thick client and have an associated CTI application stored thereon.

In contrast to a thick client arrangement a thin client arrangement generally does as little processing as possible on the client computer s e.g. the agent computing devices and relies on accessing a server such as a web server each time input data needs to be processed or validated. In an implementation the institution system may provide the CTI application that resides on a web server and runs on the web server . In a thin client arrangement such as that shown in a web server may comprise the CTI application and may be used to manage the contact sessions of the agents . Thus the agent computing devices may act as a thin client and may depend primarily on a remote server e.g. the web server for processing activities. In such an implementation the agent computing devices may mainly focus on conveying input and output between the agent computing devices and the web server .

In each agent has an associated agent telephone and an associated agent computing device . Each agent computing device may rely on the web server for processing with respect to the CTI application . Each agent computing device may be connected to the web server via a network such as a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN or the Internet for example. Although only two agents are shown in it is contemplated that any number of agents and associated agent computing devices may be in communication with or otherwise affiliated with the institution system and may be available to communicate with the user .

The web server runs a computer program that is responsible for accepting hypertext transfer protocol HTTP requests from the agent computing devices and serving them HTTP responses along with optional data contents. Multiple web servers may be provided as each web server can handle a relatively small number of agents e.g. 100 200 agents in an implementation . As additional agents come online more web servers may be used. The web servers do the CTI processing for the agent computing devices. As noted an enterprise may have hundreds or thousands of agents each with their own agent computing device. A large farm of web servers may be used to manage and track these thousands of agent computing devices.

The CTI application may interact with a CTI server . The CTI server may monitor the state of each agent telephone . The CTI server may send messages to each agent via the agent computing device and the CTI application . The CTI server and each agent computing device may be connected via a network such as a LAN a WAN or the Internet for example.

A private branch exchange PBX may be provided between each agent telephone and the CTI server . The PBX is a telephone exchange that serves a particular business or office as opposed to one that a common carrier or telephone company operates for many businesses or for the general public. PBXs make connections among the internal telephones of a private organization usually a business and also connect them to the public switched telephone network PSTN via trunk lines. Functionally the PBX performs duties such as establishing connections between the telephone sets of two users e.g. mapping a dialed number to a physical phone ensuring the phone is not already busy maintaining such connections as long as the users require them i.e. channeling voice signals between the users disconnecting those connections as per the users requirement and providing information for accounting purposes e.g. metering calls .

The user may have an associated user computing device such as a personal computer PC a handheld computing device a personal digital assistant PDA or a mobile phone for example. An example user computing device is described with respect to . The user may be affiliated with the institution e.g. a member of the institution or may be external to the institution e.g. unaffiliated with the institution .

The user computing device and the institution system may be connected over a network. It is contemplated that the network may be any type of private or public communication network such as for example an intranet the Internet a LAN a WAN a wireless fidelity WiFi network a PSTN a cellular network a voice over Internet protocol VoIP network and the like. The user may also communicate with the institution system by phone email web chat instant message text message facsimile mail and the like. The network also may connect agents and to the institution system via their associated agent computing devices and respectively. An example agent computing device is described with respect to .

An application may run on the user computing device that establishes a connection with the institution system such as with a user interface module an integration and aggregation engine and or a CTI server as described further herein. The CTI infrastructure allows the phone state of each agent to be determined and reported to the user . The availability of the agents may be tracked e.g. using information from the CTI server and a wait time referred to herein as an estimated wait time although the wait time may be determined to be an actual wait time or a precise wait time depending on the implementation may be calculated and provided to the user . The CTI server allows the status of an agent e.g. busy with a phone call to be known and reported and can be used to provide the user computing device with information on whether an agent is currently e.g. immediately available to take a phone call from the user e.g. agent s availability and or estimated wait time s information .

An application on the user computing device may provide an indication on the user computing device e.g. via a status indicator or icon provided on the desktop or display of the user computing device as to how many agents are currently available to speak with the user if the user were to immediately phone in to the institution and or an estimated wait time until an agent becomes available. As described further herein the indication may be persistent and displayed on the desktop or display of the user computing device in any page or application that the user may be accessing or using.

Availability of agents with various expertises or affiliated with different subject areas or divisions of the institution e.g. banking investing life insurance annuities savings accounts credit cards financial and retirement planning etc. may be displayed. Each agent may be associated with one or more subject areas or divisions. Availability of particular agents e.g. by name by region by language spoken etc. may be displayed.

The user may call in when an agent is available e.g. when there is no wait for an agent to become available to communicate with the user . The user may call the agent via any type of phone such as a wired or wireless phone a mobile phone a cellular phone a smartphone a VOIP phone a softphone and the like. In an implementation the user computing device may display a call icon described further with respect to that a user may select to place a call to an available agent via the user computing device . Such a call may be implemented using a VOIP application and or phone or any softphone. In computing a softphone is a software program for making telephone calls over the Internet using a general purpose computer rather than using dedicated hardware. Often a softphone is designed to behave like a traditional telephone sometimes appearing as an image of a phone with a display panel and buttons with which the user can interact. A softphone may be used with a headset connected to the sound card of the user computing device or with a USB universal serial bus phone.

In an implementation a VoIP application on the user computing device may be in communication with the institution system and receive agent phone state and availability status via information from the CTI server . The user may monitor the state of a particular agent to know when they are available for communication with the user . In an implementation the VOIP application may automatically call the agent when the agent moves to a ready state e.g. an available state . The VOIP application may provide for a pooling of multiple agents that the user may be interested in communicating with. The user could place identifiers of the agents into a pool and prioritize a call order e.g. for automatic calling for notification etc. when the agents become available.

In an implementation as described further herein the user computing device may display a call icon that a user may select to receive a callback from an available agent. Based on contact information pertaining to the user that the institution system may retrieve from storage or receive from the user e.g. pursuant to a request for a phone number of the user the institution system may establish a phone call between an available agent and the user . In an implementation the institution system may automatically place a phone call from an available agent to the user as soon as the agent becomes available. Alternatively the user computing device may automatically call an available agent upon the user computing device receiving an indication from the institution system that the agent has become available. In this manner the user does not have to monitor a status indicator or take note of when an agent becomes available. Thus access to an available agent is provided to the user and the user does not need to spend time on the phone waiting for an agent to answer their call. The user knows when one of the agents is available e.g. who has expertise in the subject matter of interest to the user .

In an implementation the institution system e.g. via information from the CTI server may provide call volume statistics pertaining to one or more agents to the user via the user computing device for example. The call volume statistics may comprise information that may be used to determine when an agent or a group of agents e.g. that share particular characteristics is most likely unavailable and or most likely available. Such information may comprise an average number of calls an agent handles in a particular time period an average amount of time an agent spends on the phone in a particular time period an average length of time between calls handled by an agent in a particular time period etc. The information may be provided to the user in any format. The user may use this information to determine when to likely expect to be able to receive access to an available agent e.g. to communicate with an available agent .

In an implementation the user may set a phone such as a phone associated with the user computing device to automatically call an agent at a predetermined time or times based on when an agent is likely to be available. Alternatively or additionally the user may instruct the institution system to attempt to establish a phone call between the user and an agent at one or more predetermined times based on when an agent is likely to be available. It is contemplated that the institution system may also use the information to determine whether and where to add remove agents for servicing users calls e.g. which subject area which locations etc. .

The institution system may include a user interface module an integration and aggregation engine and a data source access engine . The user interface module may generate and format one or more pages of content as a unified graphical presentation that may be provided to the user computing device as an output from the integration and aggregation engine or the CTI server for example. The page s of content may be provided to the user computing device via a website associated with the institution system or via a network connection or other communications connection.

In an implementation the user may use the user interface module for example to provide one or more characteristics of one or more agents that they would like to learn the availability of and or to receive an estimated wait time until the agent s become available and to provide identification and authentication information to the institution system for example via the user computing device . The user may also use the user interface module to provide contact information and instructions on receiving a phone call from an agent e.g. when an agent becomes available or at a predetermined time based on call volume statistics that may be generated and provided to the user .

In an implementation instead of hosting the website the institution system may comprise a conventional application server hosting a proprietary online service accessible only a private network. In any event the institution system may have appropriate security mechanisms in place to prevent unauthorized third parties from intercepting the user s information.

The integration and aggregation engine may receive agent availability and estimated wait time data pertaining to the agents from the CTI server and generate agent availability and estimated wait time information based thereon to be provided to the user computing device . The agent availability and estimated wait time information may be based on the availability and estimated wait time data for one or more agents such as those agents that meet the selected characteristics provided by the user . The integration and aggregation engine may also generate call volume statistics based on information received from the CTI server . The call volume statistics may be provided to the user via the user computing device for example.

The integration and aggregation engine may retrieve data from data source s storage and other storage internal and or external to the institution system in an implementation via the data source access engine . The integration and aggregation engine may also receive data provided by the user via the user computing device and may receive data provided by an agent via an agent computing device . The data may be received via the user interface module in an implementation. The retrieved and or received data may be associated with the user and one or more agents and may be used to generate agent availability and estimated wait time information that may be provided to the user computing device .

The data that the integration and aggregation engine may retrieve or receive may be data pertaining to the location of the user the location of agents and or data pertaining to each agent . Each agent s skill data may be stored in storage or data source s for example such as in a skill database. In an implementation the integration and aggregation engine may determine which agent or agents fit a user s selection of characteristics based on skill data that may be retrieved from the skill database.

The integration and aggregation engine may use tools calculators applications and aggregators for example to analyze agent availability data and estimated wait time data received from the CTI server and generate availability and estimated wait time information based thereon as well as call volume statistics to be provided to the user computing device . In an implementation the integration and aggregation engine aggregates multiple agents availability to show total availability of at least one of the agents e.g. for one or more subject areas requested by the user for one or more agents who meet characteristics provided by the user for one or more agents in a region associated with the location of the user for all agents who may service the user etc. The integration and aggregation engine may use input from the user received via the user interface module for example and information known about the user received by the data source access engine for example to determine which agents availability wait times and call volume statistics to aggregate and provide to the user .

In an implementation data for the user regarding agent availability estimated wait time and or call volume statistics may be integrated into a single unified presentation which may then be sent to the user interface module for presentation to the user . Through this mechanism the user may quickly see if an agent is available for the user to communicate with an estimated wait time until an agent becomes available and or when an agent may likely be available based on the call volume statistics .

The user may interface with the institution system via the website that may display one or more pages of content to the user on the user computing device . A request from the user may be received at the institution system through any suitable means such as interaction with a web browser that is in communication with the integration and aggregation engine or other computing device within the institution system . The actual mechanism of connection is outside the scope of the present discussion. In an implementation the request may be processed by the integration and aggregation engine which then provides the user with a response to the request e.g. in the form of one or more status indicators described further herein. The user may also place a call and or request a callback via one or more call icons described further herein.

In an implementation only a member or registered user of the institution system may receive agent availability and estimated wait time information access to an available agent and call volume statistics . Alternatively any user of the website may receive agent availability and estimated wait time information access to an available agent and call volume statistics . In an implementation access may be limited by various restrictions such as a pilot group products age etc. to allow only a target audience to receive agent availability information estimated wait time information access to an available agent and or call volume statistics.

The user computing device may provide user access to a system which is coupled to the integration and aggregation engine and is configured to receive a plurality of user requests at least one of which is a request for agent availability information and estimated wait time information access to an available agent or call volume statistics . A system may be configured to format and transmit a graphical user interface to user and through the graphical user interface provide the user with the ability to receive agent availability and estimated wait time information access to an available agent and call volume statistics provided by the institution system . A user access system may be communicatively coupled to the integration and aggregation engine or the CTI server in an implementation and may be configured to send machine readable instructions to the integration and aggregation engine or the CTI server . Those instructions may cause the integration and aggregation engine to access the CTI server data source s and storage .

As mentioned above the integration and aggregation engine may provide a unified graphical presentation output. The unified graphical presentation may be transmitted to the user access system. In an implementation the unified graphical presentation is combined with other materials and transmitted to the user . In an implementation the unified graphical presentation is received by the user access system and transmitted directly to the user without the inclusion of any other materials.

The user access system may be implemented as a web server in an implementation. The user access system through the use of any suitable interactive web technology provides an interactive experience to the user through which access to and maintenance of agent availability and estimated wait time information access to an available agent and call volume statistics can be accomplished. Any technology that provides interactivity through a web browser is considered to be within the scope of the present discussion and may include without limitation Hyper Text Mark Up Language HTML Dynamic HTML DHTML JavaScript and Ajax.

The institution system may comprise one or more computing devices . The user computing device may allow a user to interact with the computing device s . The computing device s may have one or more processors storage e.g. storage devices memory etc. and software modules . The computing device s including its processor s storage and software modules may be used in the performance of the techniques and operations described herein. Information associated with the user and the agents may be stored in storage or other storage such as data source s for example.

Examples of software modules may include modules for identifying and authenticating a user generating web page content status indicators and or status indicator content for display and receiving and servicing requests and instructions from a user described further herein. While specific functionality is described herein as occurring with respect to specific modules the functionality may likewise be performed by more fewer or other modules. An example computing device and its components are described in more detail with respect to .

In an implementation the institution system may include any combination of systems and subsystems such as electronic devices including but not limited to computers servers databases or the like. The electronic devices may include any combination of hardware components such as processors databases storage drives registers cache random access memory RAM chips data buses or the like and or software components such as operating systems database management applications or the like. According to an embodiment the electronic devices may include a network based server that may receive and process agent availability information and estimated wait time information.

One or more status indicators may be provided that display agent availability and estimated wait time information. In an implementation the status indicator may provide agent availability and estimated wait time information for any agent to communicate with the user . Additionally or alternatively in an implementation the status indicator may provide agent availability and estimated wait time information for one or more particular agents having certain characteristics e.g. as selected by the user and or the institution system to communicate with the user . The status indicators shown in are merely provided as examples and it is contemplated that additional and or alternative status indicators may be provided directed to various characteristics agents and agent profiles described further herein for example.

The status indicators may be persistent as the user browses to various websites. The status indicators may be configured so that they are always visible on the display even when there is an application open i.e. a word processor or spreadsheet program and the browser may be closed or not visible. In an implementation multiple status indicators may be provided with each status indicator directed to agent availability in a particular subject area or division of the institution such as banking investments etc. The user may thus be provided with agent availability information and or estimated wait time information for agents in each of multiple subject areas or divisions of the institution.

In an implementation a status indicator may indicate that an agent is not currently available e.g. agents available now 0 . The user may move a pointer e.g. via a mouse or other input or pointing device over the status indicator and be provided with an estimated wait time until an agent becomes available.

A notification may be provided on the display when an agent is available to communicate with the user. A notification may be provided by any technique s such as by a phone call an email an instant message a text message a facsimile etc. In an implementation when the user moves pointer a over a notification on the display that an agent is available or a status indicator indicating that an agent is available or the estimated wait time is zero or below a certain predetermined amount of time for example details about the available agent may be provided to the user e.g. in a pop up window on the display . Details may include the agent s name title phone number and or contact information area s of expertise experience level etc.

One or more call icons may be provided that may provide access to an available agent. In an implementation the call icon may allow the user to indicate that they would like to receive a callback from an available agent. After the user clicks or otherwise selects the call icon for example previously stored phone numbers associated with the user may be retrieved and displayed in a window and the user may select one of the numbers to be called back on or the user may receive the callback on a default phone number retrieved from storage in which case the user may not make a callback phone number selection after selecting the call icon . Alternately the user may enter a number in a window on which to receive the callback. The user may also input comments or questions into a window for example that may be provided to the available agent ahead of the callback.

When the request for a callback is submitted an available agent may call the user back in some embodiments immediately using the number the user selected or entered or retrieved from storage. If the user selects the call icon and an agent is unavailable the user may be notified that an immediate callback is not available but a callback may be made at some point in the future at a user selectable time for example or as soon as an agent is available . The user may be provided with an estimated wait time. Alternatively the callback request may be sent to a less appropriate less skilled for example agent for quicker and in some embodiments immediate handling.

In an implementation the call icon may allow the user to place a call to an available agent via the display . By the user selecting the call icon the user computing device may call an available agent for the user e.g. via a softphone application of the user computing device or any phone calling application that may be associated with the user computing device . The user may select the call icon when a status indicator indicates that an agent is available or upon receiving a notification that an agent is available.

In an implementation rather than being associated with phone calls the call icons may be associated with web chat sessions between the user and an available agent. Thus selection of the call icon may initiate a web chat callback from an available agent to the user and selection of the call icon may initiate a web chat by the user with an available agent.

The call icons are merely provided as examples and it is contemplated that additional and or alternative call icons may be provided directed to various characteristics agents and agent profiles for example. The status indicators and the call icons may be provided as windows icons selectable buttons or menus or any other input or output elements that may be placed in any arrangement and displayed anywhere on a display of the user computing device . The information in the status indicators and the call icons may be provided by the institution system as described further herein.

In an implementation a toolbar may be provided that may comprise one or more links to one or more websites or web pages of the institution system . Each of the links provided by the toolbar may perform one or more predetermined functions when selected. One or more of the functions may be performed in conjunction with the institution system e.g. by accessing the institution system such as a computing device or website of the institution system or may be performed locally to the user computing device e.g. by accessing an application on the user computing device .

In an implementation at least one of the functions that a link may perform is to log the user into a particular website or a particular web page of a website. Such a selection may result in the appropriate web page being provided to the user with user data being retrieved and provided to the user as personalized content in the web page. In an implementation the user may be asked to provide login information for the website. In another implementation the user may be automatically logged in to the website or web page pursuant to a user selection of one of the links .

In an implementation the functions may pertain to performing various actions regarding the status indicator s that provide and display agent availability information and or estimated wait time information such as setting up one or more status indicators updating the status indicators e.g. as to the agent information the status indicators should be directed to and or display setting an alert or notification e.g. as to when an agent may be available when an estimated wait time reaches a certain value etc. and turning on or off the status indicator s from the display of the user computing device . Additionally or alternatively the functions may pertain to performing various actions regarding the call icon s to establish a phone call web chat or other communication between the user and an available agent such as setting rules as to when and how to attempt to establish a communication between the user and an available agent how frequently to make such an attempt contact information for the user etc.

The toolbar may be any type of toolbar comprising buttons icons menus or other input or output elements that may be placed in any arrangement and displayed anywhere on a display of the user computing device . In an implementation the toolbar may comprise a dropdown menu that may provide the links to the user . The toolbar may comprise an icon that provides access to the dropdown menu of links when selected. The icon may be a plug in icon with an associated dropdown arrow that provides access to the links that the user may select. The plug in icon may be installed on an existing toolbar in an implementation. When selected e.g. by clicking or by any other known selection technique the dropdown menu may be provided in a conventional dropdown manner. In this manner the links may drop down and become visible as a list of selectable function links. The links to be displayed in the dropdown menu may be selected by the user and may be personalized by the user . The arrangement shown in is exemplary only and any suitable arrangement may be used.

By visiting a website a browser can load the instructions used to render the status indicator s and or the call icon s . In an implementation the user may enter login information and by so doing permit a version of the status indicator s and or the call icon s to be loaded that is customized based on the user s preferences selections personal data and or financial data which may be retrieved from storage based on the login information.

In an implementation the user may be provided with a link e.g. in an email on a website etc. that provides the user with access to a process to set up the status indicator s and or the call icon s . If the user is identified and authenticated the status indicator setup and or the call icon setup may be personalized to the user e.g. using user preferences or data from storage comprising such preferences or data . If the user is not properly identified and authenticated the identification and authentication process may repeat a predetermined number of times. If the user fails to authenticate or if the user chooses not to provide identification information default user preferences may be used in the status indicator setup and or the call icon setup in an implementation.

In an implementation the properties of the user computing device on which the status indicator s and or the call icon s are to be rendered may be determined. Such properties may include but are not limited to the user computing device s display resolution capabilities communications connection speed available storage space computing speed or relative computing speed browser type and version and the like.

At a connection may be established between the user computing device and the institution system. In this manner in an implementation the user computing device may receive information from the CTI of the institution system either directly or indirectly e.g. via an integration and aggregation engine or other computing device within the institution system .

At it may be determined whether any agents are available to confer with the user. In an implementation the number of agents that are currently available e.g. available now may be determined. Additionally or alternatively for example if no agent is currently available an estimated wait time until an agent is available may be determined.

In an implementation the availability of agents in particular subject areas or divisions of the institution may be determined and for those subject areas or divisions in which an agent is not currently available an estimated wait time until the next available agent in that subject area is available may be determined.

At the agent availability and or estimated wait time information may be provided to the user computing device. The information may be rendered or displayed on the user computing device in the status indicator s . Processing may continue at and repeat such that the current or latest agent availability and or estimated wait time information may be continuously provided to the user computing device. In this manner the agent availability information and or the wait time information may be repeatedly and or continuously updated.

In an implementation at when an agent becomes available a notification may be generated and provided to the user and or the user computing device. In an implementation a message or other indicator may be displayed on the user computing device. Alternatively or additionally a notification may be sent to the user by phone email instant message text message facsimile and the like. The notification may be generated and provided pursuant to any agent becoming available or pursuant to an agent in a particular subject area or division of the institution becoming available depending on the implementation. In an implementation the notification may provide information about the agent that is available such as a name a phone number one or more areas of expertise a title e.g. associate primary agent manager supervisor etc. etc.

At a call may be established between the user and the available agent. The call may be initiated by the user by the available agent or by the institution system depending on the implementation. For example upon receiving the notification that the agent has become available the user may call the agent by dialing the appropriate phone number e.g. the agent s phone number the institution s phone number etc. using any type of phone. Alternatively the user may select a call icon on the display of the user computing device either to initiate a call via a softphone or Internet protocol IP phone for example of the user computing device or to request a callback from the available agent.

In an implementation pursuant to one or more rules previously established by the user or the institution system for example the user computing device or a user telephone may automatically call an available agent upon receiving notification that the agent has become available. Similarly the agent computing device or the agent telephone may automatically call the user as soon as the agent becomes available e.g. based on the agent state tracked by a CTI server . In such an implementation the user may provide the institution system with contact information or other instructions that they would like to receive a call from the agent when the agent becomes available. Thus access to an available agent may be provided to the user and hold times for the user may be eliminated. It is noted that the user and the available agent may communicate using techniques other than a phone call such as via a web chat instant message text message and the like.

At characteristics of an agent that the user would like to communicate with may be requested and received from the user. Characteristics may include one or more areas of expertise a level of expertise a title of the agent a language spoken by the agent etc. for example. The user may provide the characteristics of an agent with whom they would like to communicate. Such characteristics may be provided as an agent profile.

In an implementation the user may request to communicate with a particular agent e.g. by name or other identifier. For example the user and the particular agent may have communicated in the past. In an implementation the user may select to communicate with more than one agent e.g. in a phone call with more than one agent participating in the phone call .

In an implementation the user s call history of previous calls with the institution and agents of the institution and related call information may be retrieved from storage e.g. associated with a CTI server and provided to the user. The user may use this information to determine which agent s they have communicated with in the past and may request that they be apprised of the availability of the agent s . The user may request that they be notified when the agent s become available.

The website may provide an icon a button pulldown or dropdown menu etc. for a user to select one or more characteristics of an agent e.g. an agent profile with whom they would like to communicate. The user may request to communicate in a subject area with a particular agent or a member of an agent group associated with the subject area. Thus the user may choose a subject area and or an agent to communicate with. Subject areas that the user may choose from may be shown to the user that are based on data that the institution has stored and retrieved or received pertaining to the user e.g. marital status loans credit cards number of dependents products the user has amount of assets etc. .

At one or more agents who meet the characteristics or agent profile received from the user may be determined. Such a determination may be made by comparing characteristics information from the received agent profile to a database of agent characteristics for example.

At it may be determined whether any agents who meet the agent profile are available to confer with the user. In an implementation the number of agents that are currently available e.g. available now may be determined. Additionally or alternatively for example if no agents are currently available an estimated wait time until an agent becomes available may be determined.

In an implementation the user may provide more than one agent profile and provide a priority ordering of the agent profiles. In this manner a user may select characteristics of a first type of agent e.g. via a first agent profile to communicate with ahead of a second type of agent to communicate with e.g. via a second agent profile if an agent matching the first agent profile is available. Otherwise the user may communicate with an agent matching the second agent profile if such an agent is available before an agent matching the first agent profile becomes available.

At the agent availability and or estimated wait time information may be provided to the user computing device. The information may be rendered or displayed on the user computing device in one or more status indicators. Processing may continue at and repeat such that the current or latest agent availability and or estimated wait time information may be continuously provided to the user computing device.

Similar to at when an agent becomes available a call or other type of communication e.g. web chat text message instant message etc. may be established between the user and the available agent. Depending on the implementation the call or other type of communication may be established pursuant to any agent becoming available or a particular agent becoming available e.g. an agent in a particular subject area an agent with a particular expertise an agent matching the characteristics or agent profile provided by the user etc. .

In an implementation if the user selected to speak with more than one agent in the same phone call a call may be established with the user when multiple agents meeting any other characteristics provided by the user are available.

At call volume statistics of the one or more agents may be determined e.g. based on data from the CTI server and provided to the user via the user computing device for example. The call volume statistics for a particular agent and for a particular subject area or division may be presented. The call volume statistics may provide time slots e.g. in the form of a calendar or any other data format for a given date range and subject area and or agent or agent group and may provide historical information as to when the agent or agent group was unavailable or available. The call volume statistics may also provide information such as a probability or a likelihood as to when in the future the agent or agents may be available to communicate with the user. The user may use this information to determine or predict one or more times when an agent may be available for communication with the user e.g. particular days particular times of the day etc.

At the user may provide instructions as to when to attempt to establish a call between the user and the agent s . In an implementation the instructions may contain scheduling data such as a day a time of day and contact information for the user and or the agent s . The instructions may comprise rules regarding a number and a frequency of attempts to establish a call if the first attempt is unsuccessful. Depending on which party is to initiate the call the instructions may be provided to the user computing device or a phone or application associated with the user or the institution system or a computing device or phone associated with the agent s . Thus the user may schedule a call online with an individual agent e.g. certified financial planner select relationship manager etc. or an agent group e.g. retirement advisors annuities investment planning retirement planning 401k rollover long term care etc. based on estimated or predicted availability of the agent or group.

In an implementation the user may select a time slot corresponding to a time and date on a calendar. The selection may be made by clicking on or highlighting the time slot in an implementation. The user may provide contact information e.g. the phone number to be called at and may note that one or more additional persons e.g. their spouse their children the user s financial planner other agents etc. are to be included on call and may provide the additional person s names and contact information. The user may also provide comments that they would like the agent to consider e.g. ahead of the scheduled call. The user may also provide information pertaining to any reminders they would like to receive about the scheduled call.

In an implementation the user may provide instructions that a call is to be made via their phone or user computing device to a particular agent at a particular time or in a particular range of time such as 2 pm to 4 pm before 12 pm any time on Mondays etc. only if the agent is available at that particular time or in the particular range of time.

At a call may be established between the user and the agent s pursuant to the instructions of . The call may be attempted at the particular day and or time set by the user e.g. based on the call volume statistics and may be initiated at the user side or the institution system or agent side depending on the implementation. The call may be established if the agent s to be on the call is available. If the call cannot be established because an agent is unavailable the user may be notified and additional attempts may be performed in accordance with the instructions provided by the user.

If the call cannot be established because the agent is unavailable throughout the attempts based on the instructions the institution system may provide a notification to the agent to call the user when the agent becomes available. Alternatively or additionally the institution system may provide an estimated wait time to the user notify the user when the agent becomes available and or call the user when the agent become available e.g. pursuant to information received from the CTI server.

Computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer may be used. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Distributed computing environments may be used where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network or other data transmission medium. In a distributed computing environment program modules and other data may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing aspects described herein includes a computing device such as computing device . In its most basic configuration computing device typically includes at least one processing unit and system memory . Depending on the exact configuration and type of computing device system memory may be volatile such as RAM non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory etc. or some combination of the two. This most basic configuration is illustrated in by dashed line .

Computing device may have additional features and or functionality. For example computing device may include additional storage removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic or optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by removable storage and non removable storage .

Computing device typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computing device and include both volatile and non volatile media and removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media.

Computer storage media include volatile and non volatile and removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. System memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media include but are not limited to RAM ROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of computing device .

Computing device may also contain communication connection s that allow the computing device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s is an example of communication media. Communication media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein includes both storage media and communication media.

Computing device may also have input device s such as a keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. Output device s such as a display speakers printer etc. may also be included. All these devices are well known in the art and need not be discussed at length here.

Computing device may be one of a plurality of computing devices inter connected by a network. As may be appreciated the network may be any appropriate network each computing device may be connected thereto by way of communication connection s in any appropriate manner and each computing device may communicate with one or more of the other computing devices in the network in any appropriate manner. For example the network may be a wired or wireless network within an organization or home or the like and may include a direct or indirect coupling to an external network such as the Internet or the like.

It should be understood that the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. Thus the methods and apparatus of the presently disclosed subject matter or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the presently disclosed subject matter. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device generally includes a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs may implement or utilize the processes described in connection with the presently disclosed subject matter e.g. through the use of an application programming interface API reusable controls or the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and it may be combined with hardware implementations.

Although exemplary embodiments may refer to utilizing aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter in the context of one or more stand alone computer systems the subject matter is not so limited but rather may be implemented in connection with any computing environment such as a network or distributed computing environment. Still further aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter may be implemented in or across a plurality of processing chips or devices and storage may similarly be effected across a plurality of devices. Such devices might include PCs network servers and handheld devices for example.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

