---

title: Visual and spatial controls for privacy settings in a charitable giving application
abstract: A graphical user interface includes objects for controlling privacy settings specific to particular user data corresponding to charitable giving. Graphically depicted sharing zones each represent a privacy setting. An information container represents particular user data. The user may drag and drop the information container between sharing zones to control privacy of the user data represented by the information container.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09489685&OS=09489685&RS=09489685
owner: HOPELA INC.
number: 09489685
owner_city: Bellevue
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150406
---
The present application claims priority benefit from U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 975 533 entitled VISUAL AND SPATIAL CONTROLS FOR PRIVACY SETTINGS IN INFORMATION SYSTEMS filed Apr. 4 2014 at the time of filing which to the extent not inconsistent with the description herein is incorporated by reference.

The present application is related to U.S. Non Provisional patent application Ser. No. 14 217 171 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR MAKING A CONTEXT SENSITIVE DONATION filed Mar. 17 2014 copending at the time of filing which to the extent not inconsistent with the description herein is incorporated by reference.

According to embodiments a visual spatial controls interface and method for selecting information access settings in multi user information systems such as an information sharing system for a charitable giving computer application are described herein.

According to an embodiment a visual spatial control system described herein can reduce or eliminate ambiguity in user privacy controls. In contrast earlier systems may be typically characterized by extensive use of complex configuration options content rules dialog boxes piecemeal control locations etc. Such existing interfaces can be confusing to the user and or difficult to access. Embodiments allow a user to be in full control of information sharing preferences through a visual spatial control interface that provides a comprehensive interface for how data is shared within a system. For example the system may include a mobile enterprise application with multiple user types that are allowed to interconnect within the system and be granted respective privileges for data access.

According to an embodiment the visual spatial controls system provides a method for controlling information sharing preferences in multi user information systems through the use of visually identifiable information containers that can be dragged within or between visually and spatially distinct zones in the relational space of a user system profile. Embodiments allow users to visually inspect and manage the state of the information sharing settings for each information container.

Through an intuitive visual interface embodiments allow a user to establish a level of public access to information available in his or her user profile by changing the position of information containers in a relational space represented in the user interface. Each container remains in a selected relational space until it is moved e.g. dragged and dropped by the user.

According to an embodiment a method for selected sharing of charitable giving events across a network includes receiving charitable giving data corresponding to a charitable giving event into computer memory. Optionally arbitrary data may be received and selectively shared as described herein. For example a user can post photographs and use the graphical sharing privacy tools described to select sharing. For ease of understanding much of the description herein will focus on charitable giving data.

A computer processor can select container graphical properties corresponding to the charitable giving data and a first privacy zone identity from a plurality of privacy zones. The computer processor can assign sharing permission to the charitable giving data the sharing permission corresponding to the first privacy zone. The computer processor selects a location within the first privacy zone for displaying the graphical container and writes data including the charitable giving data the container graphical properties the first privacy zone identity and the location to a non transitory computer readable medium. The computer processor drives an electronic display to display to a user a plurality of privacy zones including the first privacy zone and the graphical container at the location within the first privacy zone the graphical container being displayed according to the container graphical properties. At least a portion of the charitable giving data is transmitted for display on a second computing device associated with a second user only if the first sharing permission data allows transmission of the charitable giving data for viewing by the second user.

According to an embodiment the method described above can be embodied as a non transitory computer readable medium carrying computer instructions configured to cause a computer to execute the method.

According to an embodiment a method for setting sharing privileges for charitable giving events across a social network includes receiving charitable giving data corresponding to a charitable giving event into computer memory selecting with a computer processor container graphical properties corresponding to the charitable giving data the container graphical properties corresponding to a depiction of a graphical container representing the charitable giving event and selecting with the computer processor a first privacy zone identity from a plurality of privacy zones. The computer processor can assign first sharing permission to the charitable giving data the first sharing permission corresponding to the first privacy zone. The computer processor can select a first location within the first privacy zone the first location corresponding to a display location of the graphical container. The computer processor writes data including the container graphical properties the first privacy zone identity and the first location to a non transitory computer readable medium e.g. as a display list . The computer processor can receive a request via a network interface for data corresponding to a permissions control screen from a user device and responsively via the network interface data including the first graphical container properties first privacy zone identity and first location e.g. as a display list for display on the user device. The computer processor can receive via the network interface data corresponding to a user selected change in the location of the graphical container to a second location within a second privacy zone write the second location to the non transitory computer readable medium and assign second sharing permission to the charitable giving data the second sharing permission corresponding to the second privacy zone.

According to an embodiment a non transitory computer readable medium carries computer instructions configured to cause a computer to execute a method for selected sharing of charitable giving events across a social network the method comprising the steps of receiving charitable giving data corresponding to a charitable giving event into computer memory selecting container graphical properties corresponding to the charitable giving data the container graphical properties corresponding to a depiction of a graphical container representing the charitable giving event selecting a first privacy zone identity from a plurality of privacy zones and assigning first sharing permission to the charitable giving data the first sharing permission corresponding to the first privacy zone. The instructions further cause the computer processor to select a first location within the first privacy zone the first location corresponding to a display location of the graphical container and write data including the container graphical properties the first privacy zone identity and the first location to a non transitory computer readable medium as a display list . The computer processor can receive a request via a network interface for data corresponding to a permissions control screen from a user device. The instructions further cause the computer processor to output via the network interface data including the first graphical container properties first privacy zone identity and first location as a display list for display on the user device receive via the network interface data corresponding to a user selected change in the location of the graphical container to a second location within a second privacy zone and write the second location to the non transitory computer readable medium. The instructions can further cause the computer processor to assign second sharing permission to the charitable giving data the second sharing permission corresponding to the second privacy zone.

According to an embodiment a non transitory computer readable medium carries a data structure the data structure comprising charitable giving data corresponding to a charitable giving event container graphical properties selected to cause a graphical container to be displayed on a user device the graphical container being intended to represent the charitable giving event a privacy zone identity the privacy zone corresponding to a displayed region on the user device the displayed region being intended to represent a corresponding sharing privilege setting the corresponding sharing privilege setting being intended to determine one or more identities of login credentials having access to the charitable giving data and a location in the privacy zone selected as a display location of the graphical container.

According to an embodiment a non transitory computer readable medium carries computer executable instructions configured to present a graphical user interface the graphical user interface comprising a plurality of graphically depicted sharing zones each graphically depicted sharing zone corresponding to a privacy setting and one or more graphically depicted information containers each graphically depicted information container representing a particular set of user data. Each graphically depicted information container is configured to be displayed in one of the graphically depicted sharing zones and to be moved between two or more of the plurality of graphically depicted sharing zones. The particular set of user data represented by the graphically depicted information container is visible to other users according to the privacy setting corresponding to the graphically depicted sharing zone in which the graphically depicted information container is disposed.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented here.

In an embodiment each charitable giving event corresponds to an instance of a user making a charitable donation using charitable giving software. In an embodiment each charitable giving event corresponds to a charitable campaign. In an embodiment each charitable giving event corresponds to a charitable organization. In an embodiment each charitable giving event corresponds to an award given to the user responsive to a particular donation or to cumulative donation activity.

User privacy settings can be controlled through visually and spatially distinct sharing zones where each zone may indicate a level of private personal or public access to information corresponding to a respective container contained within that zone.

A zone on one end of the privacy spectrum can be completely public another zone on the other end of the spectrum completely private with intermediary zones in between indicating varying degrees of limited access to select other users within the system.

Information containers or containers can be representative of data text visual or graphic media and other information types such as but not limited to photos videos graphic or holographic images created with the intent of conveying information.

System sharing or privacy zones or zones can be regions of a user privacy control screen that each correspond to a level of privacy to be maintained for respective containers within each zone.

A computer network or network allows devices to transmit information therebetween. For example the network can be a multi purpose multi user platform that allows users to access view and share information that may be produced by the user or a group of users or generated by the system. In some embodiments the network is characterized by a social media application that allows users including friends and or the public to interact with one another via user public friend or private screens. Each graphical zone corresponds to a selected privacy setting for providing access to information represented by the containers to others or not . Privacy settings for information corresponding to respective containers are established by positioning e.g. dragging and dropping via a graphical user interface GUI a selected container within a selected zone .

Several sharing and privacy zones can be defined in the system. Zones can have different privacy settings. Each zone can be global to the entire system and therefore available to every user in the system or it can be opened to specific groups of system users or individual users. A zone can have unique or shared properties with other zones in the system.

The system can be restrictive or permissive in nature based on its intent and or the system owners preferences. In the restrictive system information is presumed to be private unless stated otherwise. In the permissive system the information is presumed to be sharable or public unless stated otherwise. Users are made aware of the nature of the system upon sign up and throughout their system use.

Zones can be defined and adjusted by the administrators of the system. Over the lifetime of the system numerous zones may be added or retired from the system. Zones correspond to respective assigned privacy settings that determine the level to which information is available or restricted to access by other users within a system on a spectrum from completely public available to all system users to completely restricted available only to the owner s creator s administrator s of the user account with varying degrees of availability assigned to categories of users described within the system.

A zone can have associative properties of the sharing and privacy settings it is assigned. The zone can maintain its properties throughout its lifecycle. Upon retirement of a zone all information containers residing in the retired zone not shown can be assigned to either a more restrictive or a more permissive zone based on the restrictive or permissive nature of the system.

Zones can have visual and sensory identifiable properties such as color shape size and or texture as well as sound and haptic feedback. Similarly information containers can have visual and sensory identifiable properties such as color shape size and or texture as well as sound and haptic feedback.

The system can enable several types of information containers . Information containers or other visual components of the system can be updated with dynamically generated data. Information containers may contain user generated or system generated data.

Information containers can be visually identified with visible properties such as color shape size and or texture. They can also be identifiable through sensory interactive feedback to the users such as but not limited to touch sound smell or motion sensory mechanisms.

Visual and sensory properties of the information containing objects can indicate the type or nature of the container or containers sharing level depending on the specific system taxonomy established by system developers or administrators.

As indicated above privacy and sharing preferences for information corresponding to a respective container is controlled by selection of which zone in which the container is placed.

In some embodiments the containers can be formed as thumbnail or full scale views of the information represented by a respective container . In other embodiments the containers can be abstractions of information that will be visible at various privacy levels. For example a musical track can be represented by a musical note icon or by a thumbnail of album art. A photograph can be represented by a thumbnail of the photo itself or can be represented by a photo album icon for example. In embodiments where the containers represent charitable giving events the container can be in the form of a gold star an award ribbon a logo for the charitable organization to which the donation was given or other abstraction.

In some embodiments the application including the privacy settings application portion can be a social networking application and the privacy settings screen described herein can be a portion of the social networking application. In one embodiment the plurality of privacy zones can be portions of a social networking screen and the containers can be information posted by a user or by friends having posting authority on the user s social networking home screen. For example the user can see all zones and therefore all containers posted across all zones including a private zone third party users not known to the user can see only posted containers having locations in a public zone and friends granted sharing privileges can see containers in the public zone and a friends zone but not the private zone . Other combinations such as separate friends zones shared with separate groups of friends can be provided in some embodiments.

As may be seen in a friend device includes a display showing the friends and public zones . In some embodiments the second device sees the same information containers shown on the user s computing device . In other embodiments the second device sees a representation of the underlying data associated with each container .

Various forms of non transitory computer readable media may carry instructions configured to cause a computer or computers to execute instructions corresponding to methods described herein. In one embodiment the instructions may be carried on a disk drive such as a rotating magnetic medium. In another embodiment the instructions may be carried on an optical disc for reading by an optical drive. In another embodiment the instructions may be carried by a portable memory device such as secure digital compact flash and or a USB drive. In another embodiment the instructions may be carried by an internal non volatile solid state storage medium or by random access memory .

Various approaches to using the system of are contemplated. For example the application including the privacy settings application portion may be configured to run on the user computing device optionally as part of or substantially as the client software application . Alternatively another embodiment not shown may include some portions of the application including the privacy settings application portion being resident on the server computer and other portions of the application including the privacy settings application portion being resident on the user computing device . For the server based privacy settings application architecture the application including the privacy settings application portion may operate on the same server computer as the web server or may alternatively be disposed on a different server computer .

Any of the non transitory computer readable media can be configured to carry a data structure that provides data corresponding to the information containers and sharing zones .

The privacy settings application can be configured to cooperate with the client software application to receive movement commands for containers from a user via a user interface and to update a data structure carrying at least metadata about information that each of the containers represents.

Typically the user is a person different than a second user to whom data corresponding to data containers disposed within a shared zone is intended to be displayed.

In each instance of respective data is assigned a container identification . Corresponding to each respective data the table displays a sharing zone in which the container is disposed a sharing privilege corresponding to the zone an x location of the container within the zone e.g. expressed as an x pixel value column of an upper left corner of the container a y location of the container within the zone e.g. expressed as a y pixel value row of the upper left corner of the container graphical properties of the container and data corresponding to the container.

For example the non transitory computer readable medium can carry a data structure including giving data corresponding to a charitable giving event. The giving data can take several forms and can include both actual data and metadata about the charitable giving event. As shown in the data structure includes the field having respective data addresses or filenames where the charitable giving data is located. For example a first instance points to a charitable giving data location of a second instance points to a charitable giving data location a third instance points to a charitable giving data location and a fourth instance points to a charitable giving data location .

Alternatively the data table can include literal charitable giving data rather than a reference to a storage location.

Charitable giving data can include for example an amount donated a location of the donation a source of the donation e.g. internal to the application vs. manually entered into the application a date of donation a time of donation a charitable organization identity a charitable campaign identity a path to a friend who proposed or paid forward the donation points associated with the donation and or points or value associated with cumulative charitable giving.

In embodiments related to instances other than charitable data instances the data can relate to other types of underlying data described above in conjunction with .

Container graphical properties are selected to affect the appearance of the first graphical container . For example the appearance of each instance of containers to be displayed on a user device is controlled by respective container graphical properties in this case saved at memory locations and respectively. Optionally the table can include literal graphical properties data rather than a reference to a storage location. In an embodiment the storage location refers to a respective style sheet for each type of container.

In embodiments each graphical container is intended to represent a respective charitable giving event.

A privacy zone identity identifies the privacy in which the container resides the privacy zone corresponding to a first displayed region on the user device the displayed region being intended to represent a corresponding sharing privilege setting. The sharing privilege setting is intended to determine one or more identities of login credentials having access to the data or at least to the container .

The table can further include a location in the privacy zone selected as a display location of the graphical container. As shown the location can include the x location and the y location . Optionally the location coordinates 408 410 can refer to a global location rather than a location within a given sharing zone .

Optionally the container graphical properties are selected as a function of a donation amount by a person having login credentials to view the graphical container. In another embodiment the container graphical properties are selected as a function of a charitable organization identity the charitable organization having received a donation from a person having login credentials to view the graphical container. In another embodiment the container graphical properties are selected as a function of a charitable campaign identity the charitable campaign having received a donation from a person having login credentials to view the graphical container. In another embodiment the container graphical properties include a graphical image of a logo of a charitable organization or charitable campaign. In another embodiment the container graphical properties include a digital photo. In another embodiment the container graphical properties include pixel colors corresponding to a donation amount.

The application can be configured to automatically select container graphical properties responsive to the data and or a class of the data .

Charitable giving transaction data can include a user actuating a charitable giving program GUI such as by pressing a Donate button. Various approaches to charitable giving applications are described in more detail in U.S. Non Provisional patent application Ser. No. 14 217 171 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR MAKING A CONTEXT SENSITIVE DONATION filed Mar. 17 2014 copending at the time of filing which to the extent not inconsistent with the description herein is incorporated by reference.

Proceeding to optional step the computer processor may determine a data class corresponding to the charitable giving data. For example if the charitable giving data corresponds to a response to a charitable campaign the computer processor may select a data class corresponding to a graphical element specific to the particular charitable campaign. In another example if the charitable giving data indicates a large donation the computer processor may select a data class corresponding to large donations. Large donations may be indicated by a special container graphical design. Additionally or alternatively the computer processor may select an initial privacy zone in which to deposit the graphical container as a function of data class.

In step a computer processor selects container graphical properties corresponding to the charitable giving data optionally as a function of data class . In some embodiments the user can optionally input graphical properties via a GUI for selection by the computer processor.

Proceeding to step the computer processor selects a first privacy zone from a plurality of privacy zones. The first privacy zone can be for example a default privacy zone such as private or an in box privacy zone that delays sharing of the charitable giving data until the user moves the graphical container to a desired privacy zone via a GUI. In step the processor optionally responsive to GUI input selects a location for displaying the graphical container within the first privacy zone.

In some embodiments the computer method includes step wherein the processor assigns sharing permission to the charitable giving data the sharing permission corresponding to the first privacy zone. In other embodiments the sharing permission is encoded by the privacy zone and sharing or non sharing of the charitable giving data is performed by an external program.

Proceeding to step the computer processor writes data including the charitable giving data the container graphical properties the first privacy zone identity and the graphical container display location to a non transitory computer readable medium.

Step includes driving an electronic display to display to a user a plurality of privacy zones including the first privacy zone and the graphical container at the location within the first privacy zone the graphical container being displayed according to the container graphical properties.

If the user wishes to change the privacy setting the method proceeds to step wherein a command is received from the user via a GUI a graphical command to move the graphical container to a location within a second privacy zone. After step the process proceeds to steps and wherein the processor assigns second sharing permission to the charitable giving data the second sharing permission corresponding to the second privacy zone and data corresponding to the second privacy zone identity and the second location within the second privacy zone are written to the non transitory computer readable medium. Step can also include writing second sharing permission data to the non transitory computer readable medium wherein the second sharing permission corresponds to the second privacy zone.

Proceeding to step the charitable giving data is transmitted to second users corresponding to the current sharing permission. This can be the first sharing permission if the user did not move the graphical container to a second privacy zone or the second sharing permission if the user did move the graphical container. For example step can include transmitting via a network interface at least a portion of the charitable giving data for display on a second computing device associated with a second user only if the sharing permission data allows transmission of the charitable giving data for viewing by the second user. If the current privacy zone corresponds to secret sharing permission then the charitable giving data is not transmitted for display on the second computing device for viewing by the second user.

Referring to steps and the charitable giving data corresponding to a charitable giving event can correspond to a donation from the user to a charitable organization. Selecting with a computer processor container graphical properties corresponding to the charitable giving data can include selecting container graphical properties corresponding to a donation amount. In another embodiment the charitable giving data corresponding to a charitable giving event can corresponds to a donation from the user to a charitable organization and selecting with a computer processor container graphical properties corresponding to the charitable giving data can include selecting container graphical properties corresponding to the particular charitable organization. In another embodiment the charitable giving data corresponding to a charitable giving event corresponds to a donation from the user during a particular charitable campaign and selecting with a computer processor container graphical properties corresponding to the charitable giving data can include selecting container graphical properties corresponding to the particular charitable campaign.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments are contemplated. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

