---

title: Complement factor B analogs and their uses
abstract: The invention provides polypeptides comprising a complement factor B analog. The invention also provides various complement factor B analogs including complement factor B analogs comprising a mutation of a free cysteine amino acid and related methods, nucleic acids and vectors. These complement factor B analogs and related methods, nucleic acids and vectors can be used to modulate a complement pathway or for the study and/or treatment of various conditions or diseases related to a complement pathway.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09533028&OS=09533028&RS=09533028
owner: Wellstat ImmunoTherapeutics, LLC
number: 09533028
owner_city: Gaithersburg
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151125
---
The complement system is a component of the innate and adaptive immune system reviewed by Volanakis J. E. 1998. Chapter 2. In . Edited by J. E. Volanakis and M. M. Frank. Marcel Dekker Inc. New York pp 9 32 . Complement plays an important role in microbial killing and for the transport and clearance of immune complexes. Many of the activation products of the complement system are also associated with proinflammatory or immunoregulatory functions. The complement system consists of plasma and membrane associated proteins that are organized in three enzymatic activation cascades the classical the lectin and the alternative pathways . All three pathways can lead to the formation of the terminal complement complex TCC and an array of biologically active products.

In some cases complement activation is initiated either by specific antibodies recognizing and binding to a variety of pathogens and foreign molecules and or by direct interaction of complement proteins with foreign substances. On activation these pathways result in the formation of protease complexes the C3 convertases. The classical pathway C3 convertase C4b2a and the alternative pathway C3 convertase C3bBb are both able to cleave the chain of C3 generating C3b. C3b has the potential to bind covalently to biological surfaces. C3b binding leads to opsonization for phagocytosis by polymorphonuclear cells and macrophages. When additional C3b is available the C3 convertases can function as C5 convertases cleaving C5 and initiating the assembly of the TCC or membrane attack complex MAC which mediates cellular lysis by insertion of pore forming protein complexes into targeted cell membranes.

In the classical pathway as shown in C1q a collagenous subcomponent of the first component C1 binds to immunoglobulins within immune complexes and its associated serine proteases C1r and C1s become activated. This complement cascade is initiated by the subsequent cleavage of C4 and C2 followed by C3 activation. The resulting C3b fragment not only acts as an opsonin but also leads to the membrane attack complex MAC formation in the lytic pathway. In innate immunity a complex composed of a recognition molecule lectin and serine proteases termed the mannose binding lectin MBL associated serine protease MASP activates C4 and C2 upon binding to carbohydrates on the surface of microorganisms via the lectin pathway. This binding occurs in the absence of immunoglobulins. Recognition molecules of the lectin pathway found in jawed vertebrates are MBLs and ficolins both of which are characterized by the presence of a collagen like domain like C1q and a carbohydrate binding domain having a common binding specificity for GlcNAc. MASPs and C1r C1s share the same domain organization and form a subfamily of serine proteases.

The lectin complement pathway in innate immunity is closely related to the classical complement pathway in adaptive immunity e.g. with respect to the structures and functions of their components. Both pathways are typically initiated by complexes consisting of collagenous proteins and serine proteases of the mannose binding lectin MBL associated serine protease MASP C1r C1s family. It has been speculated that the classical pathway emerged evolutionarily after the lectin pathway.

Activation of the alternative complement pathway shown in typically begins when C3b protein or C3i binds to a cell and other surface components e.g. of microbes. C3b can also bind to immunoglobulin G IgG antibodies. Alternative pathway Factor B protein then combines with the C3b protein to form C3bB. Factor D protein then splits the bound Factor B protein into fragments Bb and Ba forming C3bBb. Properdin then binds to the Bb to form C3bBbP that functions as a C3 convertase capable of enzymatically splitting typically hundreds of molecules of C3 into C3a and C3b. Some of the C3b subsequently binds to some of the C3bBb to form C3bBbC3b a C5 convertase capable of splitting molecules of C5 into C5a and C5b.

Since C3b is free in the plasma it can bind to either a host cell or pathogen surface. To prevent complement activation from proceeding on the host cell there are several different kinds of regulatory proteins that disrupt the complement activation process. Complement Receptor 1 CR1 or CD35 and DAF also known as CD55 compete with Factor B in binding with C3b on the cell surface and can even remove Bb from an already formed C3bBb complex. The formation of a C3 convertase can also be prevented when a plasma protease called Factor I cleaves C3b into its inactive form iC3b. Factor I works with C3b binding protein cofactors such as CR1 and Membrane Cofactor of Proteolysis MCP or CD46 . Another complement regulatory protein is Factor H which either competes with factor B displaces Bb from the convertase acts as a cofactor for Factor I or preferentially binds to C3b bound to vertebrate cells.

The precise function of the complement system depends on its regulation as activation of the complement cascade leads to the production of a number of proteins that contribute to inflammation. This is beneficial when contributing to a host defense but can be detrimental if activated on self tissue. Typically activation of C3 in the blood is kept at a low level and C3b deposition is limited to the surface of pathogens.

The human wild type complement factor B protein is a 764 amino acid single chain glycoprotein approximately 93 kDa composed of five protein domains Mole et al. 1984 The J. Biol Chem 259 6 3407 3412 . A human wild type complement factor B protein fB is typically expressed with an N terminal 25 amino acid signal peptide e.g. see SEQ ID NO 1. The amino terminal region Ba of human wild type complement factor B protein consists primarily of three short consensus repeats. The middle region is a type A domain similar to those found in von Willebrand factor Colombatti et al. Blood 1991 77 11 2305 15 . The carboxy terminus is a serine protease SP domain Perkins and Smith Biochem J. 1993 295 Pt 1 109 14 Hourcade et al. JBC 1998 273 40 25996 6000 Hourcade et al. J Immunol. 1999 162 5 2906 11 Xu et al. J Biol Chem. 2000 275 1 378 85 Milder et al. Nat Struct Mol Biol 2007 14 3 224 8 .

Complement factor B analogs and their use for inhibiting complement and treating complement mediated diseases are described in PCT Publication No. WO08 106644 and U.S. Patent Publication No. US20100120665. For example the human complement factor B protein analog hfB3 described in U.S. Patent Publication No. 20100120665 is a dominant negative human factor B protein variant that efficiently inhibits the alternative complement AP activity. hfB3 protein SEQ ID NO 4 has five amino acid changes compared to a human wild type factor B protein SEQ ID NO 1 . The five amino acid changes enable hfB3 protein to i bind much tighter to C3b protein ii resist C3b dependent cleavage by factor D protein and iii bind tighter to factor D protein when compared to the wild type factor B protein. The tighter binding of hfB3 protein with C3b protein and factor D protein sequester two essential components of the alternative complement pathway ACP in an inactive C3 convertase hfB3 blocking the AP activity. Since C3b bound hfB3 protein cannot be cleaved by factor D protein the conformational change of hfB3 protein does not occur and the serine protease at the C terminus of hfB3 protein is not activated.

Both human wild type complement factor B protein and hfB3 contain 23 cysteine amino acids. The active forms of both have all of the cysteines forming disulfide bonds with one of the other cysteines with the exception of the cysteine corresponding to the C292 of SEQ ID NO 1. The C292 of the active forms of hfB3 and wild type factor B is a free cysteine Parkes et al. 1983 Biochem J. 213 201 209 and is highly conserved among various mammalian species e.g. see Table 1 below.

Citation or discussion of a reference herein shall not be construed as an admission that such is prior art to the present invention.

The invention provides polypeptides comprising a complement factor B analog. The invention also provides various complement factor B analogs. In some embodiments a complement factor B analog comprises a mutation of a free cysteine amino acid. The invention also provides nucleic acids and viral vectors comprising a nucleotide sequence encoding polypeptides and complement factor B protein analogs of the invention. Some embodiments of the invention provide cells wherein the cells comprise a nucleic acid encoding a complement factor B protein analog of the invention and wherein the cells express a complement factor B protein analog.

Additionally the invention provides pharmaceutical preparations comprising a polypeptide or complement factor B protein analog of the invention a nucleic acid of the invention a viral vector of the invention or any combination thereof.

Also provided by the present invention are methods of treating a complement mediated disease comprising administering to a patient a pharmaceutical preparation of the invention a polypeptide of the invention a complement factor B protein analog of the invention a nucleic acid of the invention a viral vector of the invention or any combination thereof.

The invention also provides methods of producing a polypeptide comprising a complement factor B protein analog the method comprising expressing in a cell a complement factor B protein analog of the invention and purifying said complement factor B protein analog.

Polypeptides of the invention complement factor B analogs of the invention and nucleic acids and vectors encoding them can be used to modulate a complement pathway and for the study and or treatment of various conditions or diseases related to a complement pathway.

The invention is based on the findings that mutation or removal of a free cysteine i improves the yield of an active and or properly folded complement factor B protein analog e.g. see Examples 9 and 10 ii enhances the thermostability of a complement factor B protein analog e.g. see Examples 13 and 14 and or iii reduces aggregation of a complement factor B protein analog e.g. see Example 6 .

This summary of the invention does not necessarily describe all features or necessary features of the invention. The invention may also reside in a sub combination of the described features.

SEQ ID NO 2 amino acid sequence of a human complement factor B protein analog hfB3 292S which comprises the following mutations K258A R259A K260A D279G N285D and C292S.

SEQ ID NO 3 amino acid sequence of a human complement factor B analog hfB3 292S 740N comprising the following mutations as compared to SEQ ID NO 1 K258A R259A K260A D279G N285D D740N and C292S.

SEQ ID NO 4 amino acid sequence of a human complement factor B analog hfB3 which comprises the following mutations as compared to SEQ ID NO 1 K258A R259A K260A D279G and N285D.

SEQ ID NO 5 nucleotide sequence of an hfB3 expression construct the construction of which is described in Example 1.

SEQ ID NO 8 nucleotide sequence of an hfB3 292S expression construct the construction of which is described in Example 2.

SEQ ID NO 9 14 partial amino acid sequences of complement factor B proteins from a human a mouse a rat a pig a monkey and a sheep respectively.

SEQ ID NO 18 nucleotide sequence of an hfB3 Fc expression construct the construction of which is described in Example 12.

The practice of the present invention will employ unless otherwise indicated conventional techniques of cell biology molecular biology cell culture virology and the like which are in the skill of one in the art. These techniques are fully disclosed herein and or in current literature for example Sambrook Fritsch and Maniatis eds. Molecular Cloning A Laboratory Manual 2nd Ed. Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press 1989 Celis J. E. Cell Biology A Laboratory Handbook Academic Press Inc. 1994 and Bahnson et al. J. of Virol. Methods 54 131 143 1995 .

It is contemplated that any method preparation or composition described herein can be implemented with respect to any other method preparation or composition described herein. The use of the word a or an when used in conjunction with the term comprising in the claims and or the specification may mean one but it is also consistent with the meaning of one or more at least one and one or more than one. The use of the term phrase and or when used with a list means one or more of the listed items may be utilized e.g. it is not limited to one or all of the elements.

During production and purification of the complement factor B protein analog designated hfB3 SEQ ID NO 4 two populations of the complement factor B protein analog were detected. One population had the desired activity for the complement factor B protein analog Peak I while the other population had substantially less of the desired activity Peak II e.g. see . The results from characterization of the two populations suggested that the two populations differed in their disulfide bond patterns. When the free cysteine position 292 of SEQ ID NO 4 was mutated to a serine Peak II was undetectable. shows that the Peak II fraction exhibits some ability to inhibit complement hemolytic activity but much less ability per ug of protein as compared to the Peak I fraction. It is possible that the complement hemolytic inhibitory activity seen with Peak II is mostly or solely a result of Peak II being containing some hfB3 with a free cysteine at position 292 possibly as a result of Peak I and Peak II not being fully resolved from each other.

The cysteine corresponding to position 292 of SEQ ID NO 1 is highly conserved among complement factor B proteins of different mammalian species e.g. see Table 1 . Highly conserved sequences are typically important to the function of a protein. The neutral theory of molecular evolution states that mutations in amino acids occur in a stochastically constant manner as long as the mutations have no effect on the function of the gene product Kimura M The neutral theory of molecular evolution. Sci Am 1979 241 5 98 100 102 108 passim . On the other hand amino acids that are important for protein function and structure cannot mutate without a detrimental effect on protein activity. Therefore these amino acids will change very slowly in a given protein family during evolution. Liu et al. BMC Bioinformatics 2006 7 37 

Mutating the cysteine at amino acid 292 of the complement factor B protein analog to a serine e.g. as shown in SEQ ID NO 2 hfB3 292 greatly reduced if not eliminated the amount of the Peak II substantially less active population and the hfB3 292S complement factor B protein analog retained its activity in this case the ability to inhibit or reduce complement activity. E.g. see Example 10 below. 

Not wishing to be bound by theory the less active population Peak II fraction of hfB3 protein could be the result of misfolding of hfB3 protein. It is possible that the generation of the majority of Peak II population was due to the combination of the free cysteine and the mutations introduced to hfB3 protein because when cells were engineered to express a wild type human complement factor B protein SEQ ID NO 1 in a manner similar to that used for hfB3 protein only one population of the wild type human factor B protein was detected data not shown .

This mutation of a free cysteine allows for a higher yield of the active complement factor B analog since most if not all of the produced complement factor B protein analog is in an active form. Additionally mutation of a free cysteine results in a more stable protein since all of the remaining unmutated cysteines are part of a disulfide bond and there is no free cysteine left that can participate in possibly undesirable and detrimental reactions. Additionally mutating the free cysteine unexpectedly appears to have reduced or eliminated aggregation of the complement factor B protein analog e.g. see Example 6 and .

The complement factor B protein analogs described in PCT Publication No. WO08 106644 or U.S. Patent Publication No. US20100120665 both of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety can have their free cysteine mutated and still retain their desired function while benefiting from the aforementioned advantages of the mutation. Therefore the present invention includes any of the complement factor B protein analogs described in PCT Publication No. WO08 106644 or U.S. Patent Publication No. US20100120665 with a mutation of a free cysteine.

The term free cysteine refers to a cysteine that is part of a protein or a peptide wherein the free cysteine does not form a disulfide bond with another cysteine in the same protein or peptide. In some cases a free cysteine of a protein analog does not form a disulfide bond with another cysteine in the same protein or peptide when the protein analog has a desired activity but may form a disulfide bond with another cysteine in the same protein or peptide in a less active or inactive form of the protein analog.

The term complement mediated refers to a process or disease that involves complement. Typically a complement mediated disease or condition is one wherein complement activity is one of the underlying causes of the disease or condition and wherein inhibition or blocking of the complement activity lessens the extent of the disease or condition. Examples of numerous complement mediated diseases or conditions are described herein.

The term wildtype or wild type which is used interchangeably with native relates to a naturally occurring protein encoded by a mammalian genome a naturally occurring nucleic acid and so on. In some cases there may be actually more than one protein corresponding to the wild type version e.g. due to allelic differences different isoforms and or genetic variation among different individuals of a species.

The term analog refers to a structural derivative of a protein parent protein . An analog does not necessarily retain all of the properties of the parent protein and in some cases has at least one altered property as compared to the corresponding native parent protein. In some embodiments a parent protein is a native naturally occurring protein. An analog or variant protein is produced by replacing substituting deleting and or adding amino acids with regard to the corresponding native amino acid sequence of the protein. The substitutions or insertions typically involve naturally occurring amino acids but may also include synthetic or unconventional amino acids as well. In some embodiments an analog or variant is produced by mutating a protein e.g. mutating a nucleic acid encoding it. An analog will typically retain at least 70 at least 75 at least 80 at least 85 at least 90 at least 95 at least 96 at least 97 at least 98 at least 99 at least 99.5 of the corresponding native parent protein s amino acid sequence e.g. have that percent amino acid sequence identity with respect to the naturally occurring parent protein as determined over the length of the entire parent protein or in certain embodiments over a specific domain or portion of the parent protein . Analogs also include fragments of full length analogs that comprise a portion of the amino acid sequence and either retain one or more biological activities of the parent protein or of a full length analog or inhibit one or more of these biological activities.

The term corresponds or corresponding when referring to an amino acid in a particular protein refers to the particular amino acid in that particular protein and also to an amino acid in a related or similar protein and may provide a similar function to the protein. For example an amino acid in a human complement factor B may be found to correspond with an amino acid in a murine complement factor B or in a human allelic variant of factor B usually determined by aligning the two amino acid sequences. For example one skilled in the art can align two or more related sequences such as SEQ ID NOs 9 14 to determine corresponding amino acids e.g. using a BLAST program e.g. see Table 1 above . Also corresponding amino acids can be determined e.g. by aligning motifs e.g. a protease cleavage motif within related or unrelated proteins. Such an alignment may also be used to derive consensus sequences of target protein or domains thereof.

As used herein the term gene typically refers to a coding region for a protein. However in some contexts herein it will be clear that the term gene is also referring to elements e.g. regulatory elements operatively linked to a coding region such as promoters enhancers splice sites acceptors and or donors polyadenylation signals introns 5 untranslated regions 3 untranslated regions etc.

The term pharmaceutically acceptable means approved by a regulatory agency of the Federal or a state government or listed in the U.S. Pharmacopeia or other generally recognized pharmacopeia for use in humans.

A therapeutic benefit is not necessarily a cure for a particular disease or condition including any disease or condition described herein but rather encompasses a result which most typically includes alleviation of the disease or condition elimination of the disease or condition reduction of one or more symptoms associated with the disease or condition prevention or alleviation of a secondary disease or condition resulting from the occurrence of a primary disease or condition diminishing the likelihood of developing a condition or disease diminishing the severity of a disease or condition changing the character of a disease or condition shortening the course of a disease or condition slowing or preventing the progression or worsening of a disease or condition and or prevention of the disease or condition.

The present invention includes complement factor B protein analogs and polypeptides comprising complement factor analogs and their uses. Some embodiments of the invention include a complement factor B protein analog wherein a free cysteine has been mutated. In some embodiments this mutation of a free cysteine can comprise a deletion of the free cysteine or substitution of the free cysteine with another amino acid s . A free cysteine can be substituted with essentially any amino acid that still allows for the complement factor B protein analog to retain at least some of the desired characteristic s such as the ability to downregulate diminish or ablate complement activity. A substitution may be with one or more amino acids. In some embodiments a free cysteine is substituted with a serine. In some embodiments a free cysteine is substituted with one or more amino acids selected from the group consisting of alanine histidine isoleucine leucine methionine phenylalanine serine threonine tyrosine and valine. In some embodiments a free cysteine corresponds to amino acid 292 of SEQ ID NO 1.

In some embodiments the invention provides complement factor B protein analogs that do not comprise a free cysteine. The invention also provides methods of making or producing a complement factor B protein analog comprising mutating a free cysteine.

Mutation of a free cysteine can be combined with other mutations of a complement factor B protein e.g. other mutations as described herein.

The invention also provides complement factor B protein analogs wherein the cysteine corresponding amino acid 292 of SEQ ID NO 1 is mutated. This mutation can be a deletion insertion or substitution such as a serine substitution or other mutations as described herein.

Analogs can include various muteins of a sequence other than the naturally occurring amino acid sequence. For example single or multiple amino acid substitutions e.g. conservative or non conservative amino acid substitutions may be made in the naturally occurring sequence. A conservative amino acid substitution generally should not substantially change the structural characteristics of the parent sequence e.g. a replacement amino acid should not tend to break a helix that occurs in the parent sequence or disrupt other types of secondary structure that characterizes the parent sequence . Examples of art recognized polypeptide secondary and tertiary structures are described in Proteins Structures and Molecular Principles Creighton Ed. W. H. Freeman and Company New York 1984 Introduction to Protein Structure C. Branden and J. Tooze eds. Garland Publishing New York N.Y. 1991 and Thornton et al. Nature 354 105 1991 . Conservative substitutions include but are not limited to those from the following groupings Acidic Residues Asp D and Glu E Basic Residues Lys K Arg R and His H Hydrophilic Uncharged Residues Ser S Thr T Asn N and Gln Q Aliphatic Uncharged Residues Gly G Ala A Val V Leu L and Ile I Non polar Uncharged Residues Cys C Met M and Pro P Aromatic Residues Phe F Tyr Y and Trp W Alcohol group containing residues S and T Aliphatic residues I L V and M Cycloalkenyl associated residues F H W and Y Hydrophobic residues A C F G H I L M R T V W and Y Negatively charged residues D and E Polar residues C D E H K N Q R S and T Positively charged residues H K and R Small residues A C D G N P S T and V Very small residues A G and S Residues involved in turn formation A C D E G H K N Q R S P and T and Flexible residues Q T K S G P D E and R.

In some embodiments mutations include but are not limited to substitutions of one or more amino acids deletions of one or more amino acids or insertions of one or more amino acids. Mutations include but are not limited to those which 1 reduce susceptibility of the complement factor B analog to proteolysis 2 reduce susceptibility of the complement factor B analog to oxidation 3 alter binding affinity of the complement factor B analog for forming protein complexes 4 alter e.g. increase or decrease binding affinities of the complement factor B analog 5 reduce immunogenicity of the complement factor B analog 6 increase stability e.g. thermostability of the complement factor B analog 7 reduce aggregation of the complement factor B protein analog or any combinations of 1 7.

In some embodiments a human complement factor B analog of the invention competes with binding of native complement factor B. For example native complement factor B can bind with complement factor C3b to form C3bB e.g. see . Factor B that is part of the C3bB complex can bind factor D. Therefore in some embodiments a complement factor B analog of the invention can compete with the binding of a native factor B for i binding to C3b ii binding to factor D or iii both.

In some embodiments a complement factor B protein analog of the invention is an analog of SEQ ID NO 4 having cysteine amino acids that form disulfide bonds and a free cysteine amino acid that has been substituted by another amino acid more than one amino acid or has been deleted with no substitution.

In some embodiments of the invention a complement factor B protein analog has increased C3b binding affinity as compared to a corresponding native complement factor B protein and the complement factor B protein analog comprises i diminished protease activity as compared to a corresponding native complement factor B protein ii diminished ability to be cleaved by factor D protein as compared to a corresponding native complement factor B protein or iii diminished protease activity as compared to a corresponding native complement factor B protein and diminished ability to be cleaved by a factor D protein as compared to a corresponding native complement factor B protein.

In some embodiments a complement factor B analog comprises a mutation in the C3b binding domain and the complement factor B protein analog exhibits increased binding affinity to C3b as compared to the binding affinity of a corresponding native complement factor B protein to C3b. In some embodiments a mutation in the C3b binding domain comprises i a substitution or deletion of an aspartic acid corresponding to amino acid 279 of SEQ ID NO 1 a substitution or deletion of an asparagine corresponding to amino acid 285 of SEQ ID NO 1 or both or ii an insertion of at least one amino acid next to said aspartic acid or said asparagine. In some embodiments this aspartic acid asparagine or both are substituted with one or more amino acids. In some embodiments an aspartic acid corresponding to amino acid 279 of SEQ ID NO 1 is substituted with glycine alanine or asparagine. In some embodiments an asparagine corresponding to amino acid 285 of SEQ ID NO 1 is substituted with glycine alanine or aspartic acid. In some embodiments an aspartic acid corresponding to amino acid 279 of SEQ ID NO 1 is substituted with glycine and an asparagine corresponding to amino acid 285 of SEQ ID NO 1 is substituted with aspartic acid.

In some embodiments a complement factor B protein analog is a human complement factor B protein analog based on a human complement factor protein.

The instant invention includes complement factor B protein analogs e.g. that can be delivered as proteins and or via gene transfer to attenuate the alternative pathway of complement activation. These analogs may overcome hurdles that impede the development of some complement inhibitors including for example 1 avoiding long term systemic immune suppression 2 achieving efficacy in the face of otherwise prohibitively high levels of complement factors in the blood 3 achieving sufficient levels and distribution of the therapeutic complement factor B protein analog in the proximity of the retina and Bruch s membrane for efficacy 4 achieving activity of the therapeutic complement factor B protein analog within drusen 5 achieving sufficient duration of therapeutic delivery to treat a chronic disease 6 achieving efficacy without detrimentally interfering with the classical complement pathway activities in the back of the eye and or 7 avoiding or diminishing an immune reaction e.g. a local immune reaction to the therapeutic.

Attenuating the positive feedback loop in the alternative pathway is a means of down regulating the entire alternative pathway. One suitable means for attenuating the alternative pathway feedback loop is to interfere with complement factor B fB protein function or levels. Some embodiments of the invention use a complement factor B analog for attenuating complement activity.

A complement factor B protein analog of the invention may comprise at least one mutation corresponding to a mutation of SEQ ID NO 1 selected from the group consisting of K258A R259A K260A D279G N285D and D740N. In some embodiments it comprises mutations corresponding to K258A R259A K260A D279G and N285D of SEQ ID NO 1. In some embodiments a complement factor B protein analog comprises a mutation corresponding to D740N of SEQ ID NO 1.

For exemplary purposes specific analogs of complement factor B protein are described herein. Factor B protein can be manipulated in a number of ways e.g. to inhibit or reduce activation of the alternative pathway. In some embodiments particular sites in factor B can be altered for example by site directed mutagenesis so that the molecule no longer fully functions properly. In some embodiments the enzyme portion or domain e.g. the protease domain which is a serine protease of the molecule can be altered so that the molecule no longer has enzymatic activity or has reduced enzymatic activity e.g. reduced by at least 2 fold 5 fold 10 fold 50 fold or 100 fold . In some embodiments a complement factor B protein analog comprises a mutation in the active site of the serine protease domain wherein the mutation decreases or ablates the complement factor B protein analog s ability to cleave complement factor C3 as compared to a corresponding native complement factor B protein.

In some embodiments this can be achieved by altering the residue corresponding to amino acid 740 of SEQ ID NO 1. In some embodiments this mutation comprises a deletion or a substitution of an aspartic acid corresponding to amino acid 740 of SEQ ID NO 1. In some embodiments an aspartic acid D corresponding to amino acid 740 of SEQ ID NO 1 is substituted with another amino acid such as asparagine N alanine A glutamic acid E serine S tyrosine Y or glycine G . The numbering of particular factor B amino acids herein relates to the entire polypeptide including the signal peptide and is reflected in SEQ ID NO 1. Hourcade et al. JBC 1998 273 40 25996 6000 notes that amino acids 739 746 of SEQ ID NO 1 referred to in Hourcade et al. as amino acids 714 721 because the Hourcade et al. numbering does not include the 25 amino acid signal sequence peptide play a role in the serine protease function of factor B protein. Additionally N693 T694 and D740 may constitute or be part of the substrate binding site and H526 D576 and S699 may constitute or be part of the catalytic center e.g. see Xu et al. J Biol Chem. 2000 275 1 378 85. In some embodiments a factor B protein analog comprises a mutation of at least one of the amino acids selected from amino acids 739 746 of SEQ ID NO 1. In some embodiments a complement factor B protein analog comprises a substitution of the amino acid corresponding to amino acid 739 of SEQ ID NO 1 with an alanine. In some embodiments a complement factor B protein analog comprises a substitution of the amino acid corresponding to amino acid 740 of SEQ ID NO 1 with an amino acid selected from the group consisting of asparagine glutamic acid alanine serine and tyrosine. In some embodiments a complement factor B protein analog comprises a substitution of the amino acid corresponding to amino acid 741 of SEQ ID NO 1 with an amino acid selected from the group consisting of tryptophan and alanine. In some embodiments a complement factor B protein analog comprises a substitution of the amino acid corresponding to amino acid 742 of SEQ ID NO 1 with glutamine. In some embodiments a complement factor B protein analog comprises a substitution of the amino acid corresponding to amino acid 743 of SEQ ID NO 1 with phenylalanine. In some embodiments a complement factor B protein analog comprises a substitution of the amino acid corresponding to amino acid 745 of SEQ ID NO 1 with phenylalanine. In some embodiments a complement factor B protein analog comprises a substitution of the amino acid corresponding to amino acid 746 of SEQ ID NO 1 with tryptophan or alanine. In some embodiments a factor B protein analog comprises a mutation of one or two of the amino acids 693 and 694 of SEQ ID NO 1 e.g. a substitution or deletion. In some embodiments a factor B protein analog comprises a mutation of one or two of the amino acids 526 576 and 699 of SEQ ID NO 1 e.g. a substitution or deletion.

Other sites in factor B that can be altered include 1 the binding site for properdin the properdin binding domain such that binding occurs with lower affinity for example such as 2 fold 5 fold 10 fold 50 fold or 100 fold reduced affinity as compared to the wild type factor B protein or with greater affinity such as at least 2 fold 5 fold 10 fold 50 fold or 100 fold increased affinity as compared to the wild type factor B 2 the binding site for C3b protein the C3b binding domain such that binding occurs with lower affinity such as at least 2 fold 5 fold 10 fold 50 fold or 100 fold reduced affinity as compared to the wild type factor B protein or with greater affinity such as at least 2 fold 5 fold 10 fold 50 fold or 100 fold increased affinity as compared to wild type factor B protein for example this may be achieved by substituting the amino acid corresponding to position 279 and or position 285 of SEQ ID NO 1 with other amino acids for example wherein the amino acid at the position corresponding to position 279 is substituted with asparagine N alanine A or glycine G and or the amino acid at the position corresponding to position 285 is substituted with aspartic acid D or alanine A 3 the site acted on by factor D such that factor D has reduced ability to cleave or no longer cleaves factor B to form Bb for example at the factor D cleavage site at least one of the amino acids at the positions corresponding to position 258 259 or 260 of SEQ ID NO 1 for example can be altered to alanine A or a combination of any of 1 2 and or 3 above .

In some embodiments a complement factor B protein analog comprises an alteration in the complement factor D cleavage site wherein the alteration decreases or ablates cleavage of the complement factor B protein analog by factor D protein. In some embodiments an alteration in the factor D cleavage site comprises i a substitution or deletion of an arginine corresponding to amino acid 259 of SEQ ID NO 1 a substitution or deletion of one or both lysines corresponding to amino acid 258 or 260 of SEQ ID NO 1 or a substitution or deletion of the arginine and both lysines or ii an insertion next to the arginine next to the one or both lysines or next to the arginine and one or both of the lysines. In some embodiments a complement factor B protein analog has amino acids corresponding to amino acids 258 260 of SEQ ID NO 1 each replaced with alanine.

The invention includes i complement factor B protein analogs that bind to both factors C3b and D ii complement factor B protein analogs with increased binding as compared to their native form to both factors C3b and D iii complement factor B protein analogs with increased binding as compared to their native form to factor D protein and iv complement factor B protein analogs with increased binding as compared to their native form to C3bB complex. The invention also includes methods of inhibiting a complement pathway using the complement factor B protein analogs of the invention such as i iv above.

In some embodiments increased binding is increased by about 1.5 to about 10 000 about 10 to about 10 000 about 100 to about 10 000 about 1 000 to about 10 000 about 1.5 to about 1 000 about 1.5 to about 100 about 1.5 to about 10 about 2 to about 5 about 2 to about 10 about 5 to about 10 about 5 to about 20 about 10 to about 20 about 10 to about 30 about 20 to about 30 about 30 to about 50 about 50 to about 100 about 100 to about 500 about 500 to about 1 000 about 1 000 to about 5 000 or about 5 000 to about 10 000 fold. In some embodiments increased binding is increased by greater than 1.5 2 3 4 5 10 50 100 500 1000 5000 or 10 000 fold. In some embodiments increased binding can be measured by immunoprecipitation or using a Biacore GE Healthcare Piscataway N.J. e.g. as compared to the wild type protein. As an example for i above binding could be measured by immunoprecipitation of the protein with a binding molecule for C3b protein and then detecting factor D protein in the immunoprecipitate e.g. using an immunoassay such as an ELISA or Western for example with increased binding demonstrated as a band of increased intensity in a Western.

Some factor B protein analogs of the invention may have increased binding to C3b protein and or factor D protein by a factor of 2 fold 4 fold 5 fold 10 fold 20 fold 50 fold 100 fold 500 fold 1000 fold as compared to binding of wild type factor B to C3b and or factor D. In some embodiments increased binding can be measured by immunoprecipitation or using a Biacore GE Healthcare Piscataway N.J. .

Some modified factor B protein analogs of the invention comprise one or more of the amino acid alterations discussed herein and additionally have one or more additional amino acid substitutions insertions or alterations e.g. at least or no more than 1 2 5 8 10 15 20 50 100 or 200 alterations which analogs retain the increased binding to C3b and or factor D or other biological activity of the factor B protein analogs discussed herein which mediates inhibition of the complement pathway. Such analogs may have at least 99.9 99 98 95 90 85 80 75 or 70 amino acid sequence identity with a wild type factor B protein for example the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 1 and retain the increased binding to C3b and or factor D.

In the context of gene therapy and expression of complement factor B protein analogs the alterations mutations will be reflected at the level of the encoding nucleic acid. Thus modifications also can be made to the nucleic acid to enhance expression. For example certain codons may be preferred by a particular host cell. Thus recoding can be performed where certain codons are preferred in for example a particular mammalian expression system or cell.

Some embodiments of the invention are directed to polynucleotides and host cells or host multicellular organisms useful in the production of a complement factor B protein analog and directed to the analogs e.g. hfB3 292S SEQ ID NO 2 hfB3 292S 740N SEQ ID NO 3 hfB3 292S Fc SEQ ID NO 22 hfB3 292S 740N Fc SEQ ID NO 23 or hfB3 292S Fc mono SEQ ID NO 26 . Methods of isolating and testing complement mediated activity of these complement factor B protein analogs are also provided. Some aspects of the invention are directed to pharmaceutical compositions preparations wherein a complement factor B protein analog is an active ingredients in a therapeutic and or a prophylactic contexts. Some embodiments of the invention are also directed to methods of treating complement mediated disorders using a therapeutically effective amount of a complement factor B protein analog.

In some embodiments of the invention a complement factor B analog may comprise glycosylation patterns which are distinct from glycosylation patterns on a naturally occurring complement factor B or may lack glycosylation altogether. Carbohydrates may be added to and or removed from factor B analogs comprising glycosylation site sequences for N and or O linked glycosylation in vitro such as with a canine pancreatic microsome system e.g. see Mueckler and Lodish 1986 Cell 44 629 and Walter P. 1983 Meth. Enzymol. 96 84 or the like. A complement factor B analog of the invention may be produced comprising adding or deleting mutating an amino acid sequence corresponding to a glycosylation site e.g. changing the glycosylation pattern status of a protein can change functional characteristics of a protein. For example hfB2 hfB3 SEQ ID NO 4 hfB3 292S SEQ ID NO 2 hfB3 292S 740N SEQ ID NO 3 hfB3 292S Fc SEQ ID NO 22 hfB3 292S 740N Fc SEQ ID NO 23 and hfB3 292S Fc mono SEQ ID NO 26 comprise an N285D substitution as compared to a wildtype factor B SEQ ID NO 1 which results in the removal of an N glycosylation site. Both the hfB2 and hfB3 complement factor B protein analogs are described in detail in U.S. Patent Publication No. US20100120665. The loss of the N glycosylation site alters the characteristics of the protein. The same effect may be achieved by producing the protein in a cell that has an altered glycosylation pattern or that does not glycosylate this N285. For example a factor B protein or analog may be produced in an cell that does not glycosylate the N285. In some embodiments a complement factor B protein analog is produced in a cell e.g. an that does not glycosylate an amino acid corresponding to a wildtype factor B protein that is typically glycosylated e.g. corresponding to amino acid N285 of SEQ ID NO 1.

As demonstrated in PCT Publication No. WO08 106644 and U.S. Patent Publication No. US20100120665 in some cases a native factor B protein from one species may have activity in a complement reaction pathway from another species. Therefore the present invention also includes complement factor B protein analogs from one species for inhibiting complement activity in another species.

In some embodiments a complement factor B protein analog of the invention is PEGylated e.g. see Roberts et al. Advanced Drug Delivery Reviews 54 4 459 476 2002 Veronese Biomaterials 22 5 405 417 2001 Fee and Alstine Chemical Engineering Science 61 3 924 939 2006 Kodera et al. Progress in Polymer Science 23 7 1233 1271 1998 Morar Biopharm International 19 4 34 2006 and Veronese and Pasut Drug Discovery Today 10 21 1451 1458 2005 . Polyethylene glycol PEG can be attached to a complement factor B protein analog of the invention. In some embodiments PEG is attached with or without a multifunctional linker either through site specific conjugation of the PEG e.g. to the N terminus or to the C terminus of a complement factor B analog or via epsilon amino groups present on lysine residues. In some embodiments linear or branched polymer derivatization that results in minimal loss of biological activity can be used. The degree of conjugation can be closely monitored by SDS PAGE and mass spectrometry to ensure proper conjugation of PEG molecules to a complement factor B analog. In some embodiments unreacted PEG can be separated from PEG conjugates by size exclusion and or by ion exchange chromatography.

In certain embodiments the carboxy terminus the amino terminus or both of a complement factor B analog are chemically modified Amino terminal modifications such as acylation e.g. acetylation or alkylation e.g. methylation and carboxy terminal modifications such as amidation as well as other terminal modifications including cyclization may be incorporated into various embodiments of the invention. Certain amino terminal and or carboxy terminal modifications and or peptide extensions such as fused to a heterologous polypeptide such as albumin immunoglobulin or portion thereof such as an immunoglobulin Fc domain to the core sequence can provide advantageous physical chemical biochemical and pharmacological properties such as enhanced stability increased potency and or efficacy resistance to serum proteases desirable pharmacokinetic properties and others.

In some embodiments a complement factor B protein analog of the invention comprises an immunoglobulin Fc domain for example a human immunoglobulin Fc domain. In some embodiments an Fc domain is C terminal to the corresponding complement factor B analog amino acid sequence. In some embodiments an Fc domain comprises or consists of amino acids 766 990 of SEQ ID NO 21 or amino acids 766 1003 or 786 1003 of SEQ ID NO 26. In some embodiments an Fc domain is amino acids 1 239 or 2 239 of SEQ ID NO 27. In some embodiments an Fc domain is a human Fc domain. In some embodiments an Fc domain is from an immunoglobin e.g. an IgG such as IgG4. In some embodiments an Fc domain is capable of forming a dimer with another Fc domain. In some embodiments a complement factor B analog of the invention is capable of forming dimers e.g. homologous dimers such as but not limited to through interactions of Fc domains. In some embodiments a complement factor B analog does not form dimers or the majority of a complement factor B analog population preparation is in the form of monomers. In some embodiments a complement factor B analog comprising an Fc domain does not form dimers or the majority of this complement factor B analog population preparation is in the form of monomers. In some embodiments a complement factor B analog comprises an Fc domain that has one or mutations of a cysteine s in the Fc domain sequence e.g. a cysteine involved in dimerization of the Fc domain. In some embodiments a Fc domain comprises a mutation of one or more cysteines corresponding to amino acids 17 and or 20 of SEQ ID NO 27. In some embodiments a complement factor B analog comprises an Fc domain that has one or mutations of a free cysteine s in the Fc domain sequence. In some embodiments a cysteine s is substituted with an amino acid selected from the group consisting of histidine isoleucine leucine methionine phenylalanine serine threonine tyrosine and valine. In some embodiments a cysteine is deleted. In some embodiments an amino acid sequence linker is used between amino acid sequences for a complement factor B analog and an Fc region. In some embodiments this linker is one amino acid e.g. arginine.

In some embodiments a polypeptide comprises both a truncated complement factor B analog and an Fc region such as comprising amino acids corresponding to amino acids 26 480 of SEQ ID NO 2 and an Fc region.

The invention further provides analogs which are fragments of a complement factor B protein or analog that contain at least a 20 30 50 70 100 150 200 300 400 480 500 600 or 700 amino acid portion of the complement factor B protein or analog and or comprises 1 2 or 3 domains of the protein and have or retain one or more biological activities of the wild type complement factor B protein or analog and or acts as an inhibitor of an aspect of the complement system either the classical pathway alternative pathway or both . These fragments can be further modified by linking or fusing with another protein or fragment such as an Fc to increase the stability and or half life of the analog. In some embodiments an analog is fragment of a complement factor B protein or analog and the fragment has at least 99.5 99 98 95 90 85 or 62 identity with the corresponding amino acid sequence of a wild type complement factor B.

The invention provides proteins comprising a fragment of a complement factor B protein or analog wherein the fragment has an N terminal and or C terminal truncation. In some embodiments a complement factor B analog comprises a C terminal truncation wherein the analog is truncated at or after C terminal to an amino acid corresponding to amino acid 407 427 457 477 480 484 487 507 or 527 of SEQ ID NOs 1 2 or 4. In some embodiments a complement factor B analog comprises a C terminal truncation wherein the analog is truncated at an amino acid between amino acids corresponding to amino acids 407 487 470 495 or 477 487 of SEQ ID NOs 1 2 or 4. In some embodiments a complement factor B analog of the invention does not comprise amino acids corresponding to amino acids 408 764 428 764 458 764 478 764 481 764 485 764 488 764 507 764 527 764 of SEQ ID NOs 1 2 or 4. In some embodiments truncation or fragmentation of a factor B protein or analog can create a free cysteine. For example a truncation can result in the deletion of one cysteine of a cysteine pair that forms a disulfide bond in a native complement factor B protein thus creating a polypeptide that contains a cysteine but does not contain its native cysteine partner . In some of these embodiments the remaining cysteine of the pair may be mutated e.g. substituted with another amino acid such as an alanine histidine isoleucine leucine methionine phenylalanine serine threonine tyrosine and valine or the cysteine may be deleted e.g. to eliminate possible undesired disulfide bonding.

Analogs of the invention can be prepared by various techniques including but not limited to chemical synthesis or by expression of the recombinant analog.

Nucleotide sequences for genes and coding regions encoding human factor B as well as the amino acid sequences are known in the art. For example a gene encoding human factor B is found in NCBI Database Accession No. NG 000013. A coding sequence for a human factor B is found in NCBI Database Accession No. NM 001710 and an amino acid sequence for a human complement factor B preproprotein is found in NCBI Database Accession No. NP 001701 or P00751. Sequences from other animal species are also known in the art. By way of comparison in the mouse factor B protein sequence e.g. see NCBI Database Accession No. P04186 the third SCR domain is located at positions 160 217 of this 761 amino acid preprotein and the mature murine factor B protein spans positions 23 761. The first 22 amino acids of mouse factor B protein comprises a signal sequence.

Typically a human factor B preprotein is a 764 amino acid protein e.g. see SEQ ID NO 1 with a signal peptide spanning amino acid positions 1 25. The mature chain of factor B corresponds to positions 26 764 e.g. see SEQ ID NO 1 . The three SCR regions of human factor B are SCR1 also known as Sushi 1 spanning from about position 35 to about position 100 SCR2 also known as Sushi 2 spanning from about position 101 to about position 160 and SCR3 also known as Sushi 3 spanning from about position 163 to about position 220.

PCT Publication No. WO08 106644 and U.S. Patent Publication No. US20100120665 describe inter alia three specific dominant negative human factor B protein analogs designated as hfB1 hfB2 and hfB3. The first of these three analogs termed fB1 contains a mutated amino acid in the factor B fB protease site. This fB moiety binds C3b with normal affinity and kinetics but when acted upon by factor D fD and stabilized by properdin does not function as a protease and does not form a C3 convertase. fB1 contains a substitution with N at an amino acid corresponding to amino acid 740 of SEQ ID NO 1 e.g. D740N . The second of these complement factor B analogs termed fB2 alters the same amino acid as fB1 but in addition alters two additional amino acids in the C3b binding domain substitutions at amino acids corresponding to amino acids 279 and 285 of SEQ ID NO 1 which increase the binding affinity of fB2 to C3b e.g. D279G N285D and D740N changes. The N285D substitution removes a putative N glycosylation site. The third of these complement factor B protein analogs termed hfB3 combines the mutations that increase C3b binding from fB2 with a mutation that knocks out the site for cleavage by factor D particularly with substitutions at amino acids corresponding to residues 258 259 and 260 of SEQ ID NO 1 as well as substitutions at amino acids corresponding to residues 279 and 285 e.g. K258A R259A K260A D279G and N285D changes. Cleavage of wild type fB by factor D activates the fB protease. Thus hfB3 with its five amino acid changes efficiently binds C3b but has minimal protease activity.

hfB1 hfB2 and hfB3 are examples of human factor B analogs which can be further modified to complement factor B analogs of the present invention by mutating a free cysteine corresponding to amino acid 292 of SEQ ID NO 1 e.g. by substituting the cysteine with a serine but the invention is not limited to these specific analogs. Some embodiments of the invention include any complement factor B analog that modulates a complement pathway and does not comprise a free cysteine. In some embodiments a complement factor B analog comprises in addition to a mutated free cysteine one or more mutations of amino acids corresponding to one or more of the following amino acids in SEQ ID NO 1 amino acid 258 259 260 279 285 739 740 741 742 743 744 745 and 746. These one or more mutations can be a substitution or deletion of the amino acid or an addition of at least one amino acid next to or within 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 or 10 amino acids of the corresponding amino acids. In some embodiments this addition disrupts changes enhances or inhibits the function of the listed amino acid e.g. disrupts its role i in cleavage of another protein e.g. 740 ii as a site of cleavage by another protein e.g. amino acids corresponding to residues 258 259 and or 260 of SEQ ID NO 1 or iii its role in binding another protein e.g. amino acids corresponding to residues 279 or 285 of SEQ ID NO 1 .

Some embodiments of the invention comprise a substitution of an amino acid corresponding to one or more of amino acids corresponding to 258 259 and or 260 of SEQ ID NO 1 e.g. with an amino acid selected from the group consisting of alanine glycine valine leucine and isoleucine. Some embodiments of the invention comprise a deletion of an amino acid corresponding to one two or three of amino acids corresponding to amino acids 258 259 and or 260 of SEQ ID NO 1. Some embodiments of the invention comprise at least one addition of 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 or more amino acids immediately next to an amino acid corresponding to amino acids 258 259 and or 260 of SEQ ID NO 1.

Some embodiments of the invention comprise a substitution of an amino acid corresponding to amino acid 739 of SEQ ID NO 1. Some embodiments of the invention comprise a substitution of an amino acid corresponding to amino acid 739 of SEQ ID NO 1 e.g. with an amino acid selected from the group consisting of alanine glycine valine leucine and isoleucine. Some embodiments of the invention comprise a deletion of an amino acid corresponding to the 739 amino acid of SEQ ID NO 1.

Some embodiments of the invention comprise a substitution of an amino acid corresponding to amino acid 740 of SEQ ID NO 1 e.g. with an amino acid selected from the group consisting of glutamic acid asparagine alanine serine glycine and tyrosine. Some embodiments of the invention comprise a substitution of an amino acid corresponding to amino acid 740 of SEQ ID NO 1 with an amino acid selected from the group consisting of valine leucine isoleucine threonine cysteine methionine glutamine phenylalanine tyrosine tryptophan glutamic acid asparagine alanine serine glycine and tyrosine. Some embodiments of the invention comprise a deletion of an amino acid corresponding to the 740 amino acid of SEQ ID NO 1.

Some embodiments of the invention comprise a substitution of an amino acid corresponding to amino acid 741 of SEQ ID NO 1 e.g. with an amino acid selected from the group consisting of tryptophan and alanine. Some embodiments of the invention comprise a substitution of an amino acid corresponding to amino acid 741 of SEQ ID NO 1 with an amino acid selected from the group consisting of alanine glycine valine leucine and isoleucine. Some embodiments of the invention comprise a substitution of an amino acid corresponding to amino acid 741 of SEQ ID NO 1 with an amino acid selected from the group consisting of tryptophan tyrosine and phenylalanine. Some embodiments of the invention comprise a deletion of an amino acid corresponding to the 741 amino acid of SEQ ID NO 1.

Some embodiments of the invention comprise a substitution of an amino acid corresponding to amino acid 742 of SEQ ID NO 1 e.g. with a glutamine Some embodiments of the invention comprise a substitution of an amino acid corresponding to amino acid 742 of SEQ ID NO 1 with an amino acid selected from the group consisting of glutamine glutamic acid asparagine and aspartic acid. Some embodiments of the invention comprise a deletion of an amino acid corresponding to amino acid 742 of SEQ ID NO 1.

Some embodiments of the invention comprise a substitution of an amino acid corresponding to amino acid 743 and or 745 of SEQ ID NO 1 e.g. with a phenylalanine. Some embodiments of the invention comprise a substitution of an amino acid corresponding to amino acid 743 and or 745 of SEQ ID NO 1 with an amino acid selected from the group consisting of phenylalanine tyrosine and tryptophan. Some embodiments of the invention comprise a deletion of one or more of amino acids corresponding to amino acids 743 744 and or 745 of SEQ ID NO 1.

Some embodiments of the invention comprise a substitution of an amino acid corresponding to amino acid 746 of SEQ ID NO 1 e.g. with an amino acid selected from the group consisting of tryptophan and alanine. Some embodiments of the invention comprise a substitution of an amino acid corresponding to amino acid 746 of SEQ ID NO 1 with an amino acid selected from the group consisting of alanine glycine valine leucine and isoleucine. Some embodiments of the invention comprise a substitution of an amino acid corresponding to amino acid 746 of SEQ ID NO 1 with an amino acid selected from the group consisting of tryptophan tyrosine and phenylalanine. Some embodiments of the invention comprise a deletion of an amino acid corresponding to amino acid 746 of SEQ ID NO 1.

Some embodiments of the invention comprise the insertion or substitution of 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 or more amino acids immediately next to or in place of any one or more of the amino acids corresponding to amino acids 739 740 741 742 743 744 745 and or 746 of SEQ ID NO 1.

Some embodiments of the invention comprise a substitution of an amino acid corresponding to amino acid 279 of SEQ ID NO 1 e.g. with an amino acid selected from the group consisting of glycine alanine and asparagine. Some embodiments of the invention comprise a substitution of an amino acid corresponding to amino acid 279 of SEQ ID NO 1 with an amino acid selected from the group consisting of glycine alanine valine leucine and isoleucine. Some embodiments of the invention comprise a substitution of an amino acid corresponding to amino acid 279 of SEQ ID NO 1 with an amino acid selected from the group consisting of asparagine glutamic acid and glutamine Some embodiments of the invention comprise a deletion of an amino acid corresponding to amino acid 279 of SEQ ID NO 1. Some embodiments of the invention comprise the insertion or substitution of 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 or more amino acids immediately next to or in place of an amino acid corresponding to amino acid 279 of SEQ ID NO 1.

Some embodiments of the invention comprise a substitution of an amino acid corresponding to amino acid 285 of SEQ ID NO 1 e.g. with an amino acid selected from the group consisting of alanine and aspartic acid. Some embodiments of the invention comprise a substitution of an amino acid corresponding to amino acid 285 of SEQ ID NO 1 with an amino acid selected from the group consisting of glycine alanine valine leucine and isoleucine. Some embodiments of the invention comprise a substitution of an amino acid corresponding to amino acid 285 of SEQ ID NO 1 with an amino acid selected from the group consisting of aspartic acid glutamic acid and glutamine Some embodiments of the invention comprise a deletion of the an amino acid corresponding to amino acid 285 of SEQ ID NO 1. Some embodiments of the invention comprise the insertion or substitution of 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 or more amino acids immediately next to or in place of an amino acid corresponding to amino acid 285 of SEQ ID NO 1.

Some embodiments of the invention comprise a substitution of the one or more of the amino acids corresponding to amino acids 279 282 283 284 and 285 of SEQ ID NO 1. In some embodiments these amino acids are replaced with glycine isoleucine proline histidine and aspartic acid respectively.

Some embodiments of the invention comprise mutations of the amino acids corresponding to 258 259 260 279 and 285 of SEQ ID NO 1 as described herein.

In some specific embodiments the invention provides a factor B protein analog that comprises the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 2 3 21 22 or 23 optionally without any signal sequence e.g. amino acids 1 25 contained therein . These factor B protein analogs can be used in methods of the invention.

The invention includes complement factor B protein analogs that comprise a combination of the mutations substitutions deletions and additions discussed herein. In some embodiments these complement factor B analogs retain one or more of the attributes of the hfB1 hfB2 hfB3 hfB3 292S or hfB3 292S 740N analogs or any other complement factor B analog discussed herein. The invention further provides analogs that are fragments for example comprising one or more domains of a complement factor B protein having one or more of the amino acid mutations set forth herein of these analogs that have one or more of the attributes of the analogs discussed above e.g. hfB3 292SN480. In addition the analogs may comprise additional amino acid substitutions deletions or insertions for example conservative amino acid substitutions truncations of the N terminus or C terminus etc. such that the analog has at least 99.5 99 98 95 90 85 80 75 or 75 identity with the corresponding wild type complement factor B or in the case of an analog comprising a fragment of complement factor B the analog has at least 99.5 99 98 95 90 85 80 75 or 70 identity between the corresponding parts of the analog and wild type complement factor B.

The hfB3 292S and hfB3 292SN480 proteins contain the following key features from N terminus to C terminus 1 factor B protein native signal sequence for efficient secretion out of mammalian expression cells such as human 293 cells CHO cells BHK cells 2 a mutated C3b dependent factor D protein cleavage site changing amino acids from K258R259K260 to A258A259A260 3 a mutated C3b protein binding site changing amino acid from D279 to G279 and amino acid from N285 to D285 to enable its tight binding with and trapping of C3b protein and 4 a mutated free cysteine changing amino acid C292 to S292 to increase the amount of active or correctly folded protein.

In some embodiments of the invention a human complement factor B protein analog is at least 90 at least 95 at least 98 or at least 99 identical to i SEQ ID NOs 1 2 3 22 or 23 ii amino acids 26 764 of SEQ ID NOs 1 2 or 3 iii amino acids 1 990 or 26 990 of either of SEQ ID NOs 22 or 23 amino acids 26 480 of SEQ ID NO 2 and iv amino acids 1 1003 or 26 1003 of SEQ ID NO 26. In some embodiments a human complement factor B protein analog of the invention comprises i SEQ ID NOs 2 3 22 23 or 26 ii amino acids 1 480 of SEQ ID NO 2 iii amino acids 26 480 of SEQ ID NO 2 iv amino acids 26 764 of SEQ ID NOs 2 or 3 v amino acids 26 990 of SEQ ID NOs 22 or 23 or vi amino acids 26 1003 of SEQ ID NO 26. In some embodiments a complement factor B protein analog consists essentially of i amino acids 26 764 of SEQ ID NO 2 or 3 ii amino acids 26 480 of SEQ ID NO 2 or 3 iii amino acids 26 990 of SEQ ID NOs 22 or 23 or iv amino acids 26 1003 of SEQ ID NO 26.

The invention also provides complement factor B analogs comprising mutations of amino acids corresponding to those in complement factor B that interact with factors molecules that accelerate the decay of the C3bBb complex. In some embodiments a complement factor B analog comprises mutations of amino acids that interact with DAF. These mutations include but are not limited to one or more mutations of amino acids corresponding to amino acids 290 291 323 363 364 or 407 of SEQ ID NO 1. In some embodiments these mutations are a substitution or deletion of one or more of the amino acids corresponding to amino acids 290 291 323 363 364 or 407 of SEQ ID NO 1. In some embodiments a complement factor B analog comprises one or more of the following mutations corresponding to K323E K290A K291A Y363A S364A or D407N of SEQ ID NO 1. In some embodiments a complement factor B analog comprises one of the following combinations of mutations corresponding to K290A K291A Y363A S364A or K290A K291A Y363A S364A of SEQ ID NO 1. Without wishing to be bound by theory mutations of amino acids in a complement factor B analog that interact with factors molecules that accelerate the decay of the C3bBb complex may inhibit the decay of complexes of C3b and a complement factor B analog of the invention thereby allowing for a complement factor B analog to better inhibit complement activity.

Exemplary procedures for generating cDNAs e.g. human wild type fB and three complement factor B analogs as well as four analogous murine sequences and their incorporation into vectors are detailed in Example 8 of PCT Publication No. WO08 106644 and U.S. Patent Publication No. US20100120665.

The invention includes nucleic acids comprising a nucleotide sequence encoding a complement factor B protein analog of the invention and includes vectors comprising these nucleic acids.

To ensure local and long term expression of a nucleic acid of interest some embodiments of the invention contemplate transducing a cell with a nucleic acid or vector encoding a complement factor B analog of the invention. The instant invention is not to be construed as limited to any one particular nucleic delivery method and any available nucleic acid delivery vehicle with either an in vivo or in vitro nucleic acid delivery strategy or the use of manipulated cells such as the technology of Neurotech Lincoln R I e.g. see U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 231 879 6 262 034 6 264 941 6 303 136 6 322 804 6 436 427 6 878 544 as well as nucleic acids of the invention encoding a complement factor B analog per se e.g. naked DNA can be used in the practice of the instant invention. Various delivery vehicles such as vectors can be used with the present invention. For example viral vectors amphitrophic lipids cationic polymers such as polyethylenimine PEI and polylysine dendrimers such as combburst molecules and starburst molecules nonionic lipids anionic lipids vesicles liposomes and other synthetic nucleic acid means of gene delivery e.g. see U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 958 325 and 7 098 030 Langer Science 249 1527 1533 1990 Treat et al. in Liposomes in The Therapy of Infectious Disease and Cancer and Lopez Berestein Fidler eds. Liss New York pp. 317 327 and 353 365 1989 naked nucleic acids and so on can be used in the practice of the instant invention.

A vector is a means by which a nucleic acid of interest e.g. a therapeutic nucleic acid e.g. that can encode a therapeutic protein is introduced into a target cell of interest. A vector is typically constructed or obtained from a starting material such as a nucleic acid capable of carrying a foreign gene or transgene and which is capable of entering into and being expressed in a target cell. Suitable starting materials from which a vector can be obtained include transposons plasmids viruses PCR products cDNAs mRNAs and so on as known in the art. Methods for obtaining or constructing a vector of interest include but are not limited to standard gene manipulation techniques sequencing reactions restriction enzymes digests polymerase reactions PCR PCR SOEing ligations recombinase reactions e.g. Invitrogen s GATEWAY technology other enzymes active on nucleic acids bacteria and virus propagation materials and methods chemicals and reagents site directed mutagenesis protocols and so on as known in the art see for example the Maniatis et al. text Molecular Cloning. 

Nucleic acids of the invention will typically comprise a promoter operatively linked to a complement factor B protein analog coding sequence. A promoter may be a tissue specific promoter a cell specific promoter an inducible promoter a repressible promoter a constitutive promoter a synthetic promoter or a hybrid promoter for example. Examples of promoters useful in the constructs of the invention include but are not limited to a phage lambda PL promoter an SV40 early promoter a herpes simplex viral HSV promoter a cytomegalovirus CMV promoter such as the human CMV immediate early promoter a tetracycline controlled trans activator responsive promoter tet system a long terminal repeat LTR promoter such as a MoMLV LTR BIV LTR or an HIV LTR a U3 region promoter of Moloney murine sarcoma virus a Granzyme A promoter a regulatory sequence s of the metallothionein gene a CD34 promoter a CD8 promoter a thymidine kinase TK promoter a B19 parvovirus promoter a PGK promoter a glucocorticoid promoter a heat shock protein HSP promoter such as HSP65 and HSP70 promoters an immunoglobulin promoter an MMTV promoter a Rous sarcoma virus RSV promoter a lac promoter a CaMV 35S promoter and a nopaline synthetase promoter. In some embodiments a promoter is an MND promoter Robbins et al. 1997 J. Virol. 71 9466 9474 or an MNC promoter which is a derivative of the MND promoter in which the LTR enhancers are combined with a minimal CMV promoter Haberman et al. J. Virol. 74 18 8732 8739 2000 .

In some embodiments a vector of the invention comprises an intron e.g. as part of the gene coding for a complement factor B protein analog. Heterologous introns are known and non limiting examples include a human globin gene intron. An intron can be from a complement factor B gene or a heterologous intron.

Signal sequences or leader sequences are known and can be used in complement factor B analog expression constructs. Signal sequences are translated in frame as a peptide attached to the amino terminal end of a polypeptide of choice the secretory signal sequence will cause the secretion of the polypeptide by interacting with the machinery of the host cell. As part of the secretory process this secretory signal sequence will be cleaved off. The human placental alkaline phosphatase secretory signal sequence is an example of a useful signal sequence. The present invention is not limited by specific secretory signal sequences and others are known to those skilled in the art. The term signal sequence also refers to a nucleic acid sequence encoding the secretory peptide. If a signal sequence is included it can either be a wild type complement factor B sequence a homologous sequence or a heterologous sequence.

The present invention includes viral vectors encoding a complement factor B analog s of the invention. Examples of viral vectors useful in the present invention are described in PCT Publication No. WO08 106644 and U.S. Patent Publication No. US20100120665. The present invention is not limited to a particular viral vector. Viral vectors include but are not limited to retroviral vectors lentiviral vectors adenoviral vectors see for example U.S. Pat. No. 7 045 344 AAV vectors e.g. see U.S. Pat. No. 7 105 345 Herpes viral vectors e.g. see U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 830 727 and 6 040 172 hepatitis e.g. hepatitis D viral vectors e.g. see U.S. Pat. No. 5 225 347 SV40 vectors EBV vectors e.g. see U.S. Pat. No. 6 521 449 and Newcastle disease virus vectors e.g. see U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 146 642 7 442 379 7 332 169 and 6 719 979 . In some embodiments a lentiviral vector is an HIV EIAV SIV FIV or BIV vector. The invention also provides a cell that produces a viral vector of the invention.

Examples of BIV systems are described for example in Matukonis et al. 2002 13 1293 1303 Molina et al. 2002 304 10 23 Molina et al. 2004 Hum. Gene Ther. 15 65 877 U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 864 085 7 125 712 7 153 512 PCT Publication No. WO08 106644 and U.S. Patent Publication No. US20100120665.

Vector virions of the invention may be administered in vivo or in vitro to cells e.g. mammalian cells . Vectors viral or nonviral can be used to transduce or transform cells including but not limited to undifferentiated cells differentiated cells somatic cells primitive cells and or stem cells. In some embodiments stem cells are intended for administration to a human and not for implantation in a suitably pseudopregnant woman for differentiation and development into an infant.

In some embodiments a viral vector of the invention comprises a decay accelerating factor DAF . For example an enveloped viral vector includes a DAF on the viral membrane. In some embodiments a DAF is a wild type DAF. In some embodiments a DAF is part of a fusion protein with an envelope protein e.g. see Guibinga et al. Mol Ther. 2005 11 4 645 51. In some embodiments a BIV producer cell expresses a DAF.

The complement factor B protein analogs of the invention can be produced from a cell. In some embodiments the complement factor B protein analog is then purified from the cell and or from cell culture medium.

The invention includes i cells comprising a nucleic acid comprising a nucleotide sequence encoding a complement factor B analog of the invention and or ii cells expressing a complement factor B protein analog of the invention. In some embodiments a mammalian cell is utilized. In some embodiments a prokaryotic cell is utilized.

Host cells are typically transfected or transduced with an expression or cloning vector for protein production and cultured in conventional nutrient media modified as appropriate for inducing promoters selecting transformants amplifying the genes encoding the desired sequences or for downstream purification and or concentration procedures.

Suitable host cells for cloning or expressing a coding region in a vector are prokaryote yeast or higher eukaryote cells. Suitable prokaryotes for this purpose include but are not limited to eubacteria such as Gram negative or Gram positive organisms for example Enterobacteriaceae such as e.g. e.g. e.g. and as well as Bacilli such as and e.g. 41P such as and . In some embodiments an cloning host is 294 e.g. ATCC 31 446 although other strains such as B X1776 e.g. ATCC 31 537 and W3110 e.g. ATCC 27 325 may be suitable.

In addition to prokaryotes eukaryotic microbes such as filamentous fungi or yeast are suitable cloning or expression hosts. or common baker s yeast is commonly used among lower eukaryotic host microorganisms. However a number of other genera species and strains are commonly available and useful herein such as hosts such as e.g. e.g. ATCC 12 424 e.g. ATCC 16 045 e.g. ATCC 24 178 e.g. ATCC 56 500 e.g. ATCC 36 906 and e.g. EP402 226 e.g. EP183 070 e.g. EP244 234 such as and filamentous fungi such as e.g. and hosts such as and

Suitable host cells e.g. for the expression of glycosylated proteins can be derived from multicellular organisms. Examples of invertebrate cells include plant and insect cells. Numerous baculoviral strains and variants and corresponding permissive insect host cells from hosts such as caterpillar mosquito mosquito fruitfly and have been identified and can be used for expressing proteins. A variety of viral strains for transfection can be used for protein expression and are publicly available e.g. the L 1 variant of NPV and the Bm 5 strain of NPV and such viruses may be used according to the present invention for example for transfection of cells. Plant cell cultures of cotton corn potato soybean petunia tomato and tobacco can also be utilized as hosts.

Some embodiments of the invention utilize vertebrate or mammalian cells and propagation of vertebrate cells in culture tissue culture can be a routine procedure. Examples of useful mammalian host cell lines are a monkey kidney CVI cell line transformed by SV40 e.g. COS 7 ATCC CRL 1651 human embryonic kidney line e.g. 293 or 293T cells including either cell line subcloned for growth in suspension culture Graham et al. J. Gen Virol. 36 59 1977 such as 293 Freestyle Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. or 293FT baby hamster kidney cells e.g. BHK ATCC CCL 10 Chinese hamster ovary cells Chinese hamster ovary cells DHFR e.g. CHO Urlaub et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 77 4216 1980 mouse sertoli cells e.g. TM4 Mather Biol. Reprod. 23 243 251 1980 monkey kidney cells e.g. CVI ATCC CCL 70 African green monkey kidney cells e.g. VERO 76 ATCC CRL 1587 human cervical carcinoma cells e.g. HELA ATCC CCL 2 canine kidney cells e.g. MOCK ATCC CCL 34 CF2TH cells buffalo rat liver cells e.g. BRL 3A ATCC CRL 1442 human lung cells e.g. W138 ATCC CCL 75 human liver cells e.g. Hep G2 HB 8065 mouse mammary tumor cells e.g. MMT 060562 ATCC CCL51 TRI cells Mather et al. Annals N.Y. Acad. Sci. 383 44 68 1983 MRC 5 cells and FS4 cells.

In some instances a host cell may be modified to decrease or eliminate expression of an endogenous protein. For example if a complement factor B protein analog is to be produced in a particular host cell e.g. a CHO cell then the host cell could be modified so as expression of the host cell s native factor B protein e.g. hamster factor B is reduced or eliminated. This may be advantageous for the downstream purification of the complement factor B protein analog. Therefore the invention provides a method of producing a complement protein analog of the invention comprising reducing or eliminating the expression of the corresponding native complement protein in the host cell. Methods for reducing eliminating or knocking out expression of a host cell protein are known in the art. For example a protein s expression level may be reduced or eliminated by engineering the host cell to express inhibitory RNA e.g. RNAi specific for the RNA coding for the protein. For example Clontech Mountain View Calif. sells various vectors and kits such as those referred to as part of the KNOCKOUT RNAi Systems for knocking down expression of proteins in a host cell. Other methods include gene targeting by homologous recombination which allows the introduction of specific mutations into any cloned gene e.g. see Current Protocols in Molecular Biology John Wiley Sons Inc. 1994 1998 Sections 9.16 and 9.17. This can be used to knockout the gene expressing the host cell protein.

Another method which may be utilized to reduce expression of an endogenous protein involves using a targeted transcription factor that represses expression of the endogenous protein. For example a repressor domain from a transcription factor may be attached or fused to a DNA binding domain such as a zinc finger polypeptide. One skilled in the art can design zinc finger polypeptides that bind specific DNA sequences e.g. see U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 140 081 and 7 067 617 and U.S. Published Patent Applications 20060078880 20040224385 and 20070213269. One skilled in the art can associate designed zinc finger polypeptides with a transcriptional repressor domain e.g. a KRAB Kr ppel associated box domain . Examples of such molecules and techniques are described in Beerli et al. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA. 2000 97 4 1495 1500 and U.S. Published Patent Application 20070020627. In some embodiments of the invention a host cell would be transduced with a vector expressing the transcriptional repressor. This approach has an advantage over knocking out the gene of interest using homologous recombination because in most cases a host cell will be diploid and it would be desirable to knock out both gene copies. Whereas expression of a transcriptional repressor should repress expression of both gene copies.

The expression of particular endogenous protein may also be reduced using compounds that will directly or indirectly reduce the expression of the particular endogenous protein. Using fB as an example various compounds can be used to reduce the expression of endogenous fB expression. For example fB protein expression has been shown to be inhibited by histamine Falus Meretey Immunology 1987 60 547 551 and Falus Meretey Mol Immunol 1988 25 11 1093 97 sodium butyrate Andoh et al. Clin Exp Immuno 1999 118 23 29 a glucocorticoid such as dexamethasone Dauchel et al Eur J Immunol 1990 20 8 1669 75 platelet derived growth factor Circolo et al. 1990 The Journal of Biol Chem 265 9 5066 5071 epidermal growth factor Circolo et al. 1990 and fibroblast growth factor Circolo et al. 1990 . A host cell of the invention may be cultured in the presence of any one or combination of these molecules to reduce the endogenous expression of complement factor B protein. Therefore in some embodiments of the invention a host cell expressing a complement factor B protein analog is cultured in the presence of any one or more compounds selected from the group consisting of a histamine a sodium butyrate a glucocorticoid e.g. dexamethasone a platelet derived growth factor an epidermal growth factor or a fibroblast growth factor.

Various compounds and proteins have been shown to upregulate or maintain expression of complement factor B protein. For example complement factor B protein expression has been shown to be upregulated or maintained by tumor necrosis factor TNF Andoh et al Clin Exp Immuno 1999 118 23 29 estrogen Sheng Hsiang et al. Biology of Reproduction 2002 66 322 332 Interleukin 1 Dauchel et al. Eur J Immunol 1990 20 8 1669 75 dexamethasone Lappin Whaley Biochem J 1991 280 117 123 prednisolone Lappin Whaley 1991 cortical Lappin Whaley 1991 and Interferon gamma Huang et al 2001 Eur J Immunol 31 3676 3686 . A host cell of the invention may be cultured in the absence of any one or combination of these molecules to reduce the endogenous expression of complement factor B protein. Additionally a host cell may be cultured in the presence of an inhibitor of any one or more of these compounds. Therefore in some embodiments of the invention a host cell expressing an complement factor B protein analog is cultured in the presence of any one or more compounds that inhibit a compound selected from the group consisting of a TNF estrogen interleukin 1 dexamethasone prednisolone cortical and interferon gamma. In some embodiments expression by the host cell of one or more of these compounds is reduced e.g. using methods as described herein. Examples of inhibitors of estrogen include but are not limited to tamoxifen Inhibitors also include antibodies that bind and reduce the activity of the compound. For example various antibodies that bind and inactivate TNF are know in the art.

A complement factor B protein analog containing composition prepared from cells can be purified using for example hydroxylapatite chromatography gel electrophoresis dialysis size exclusion chromatography affinity chromatography immunoaffinity chromatography tangential flow purification diafiltration ion exchange chromatography hydrophobic interaction chromatography HIC reverse phase chromatography heparin sepharose affinity chromatography and other known forms of separation and concentration. Following any preliminary purification step s a mixture comprising a complement factor B protein analog and contaminants if any may be subjected to low pH hydrophobic interaction chromatography e.g. using an elution buffer at a pH between about 2.5 4.5 in some cases performed at low salt concentrations e.g. from about 0 0.25M salt or other procedures for further purification.

In some embodiments a complement factor B protein analog of the invention is at least 90 at least 93 at least 95 at least 98 at least 99.5 or at least 99.9 pure in relation to total protein.

The invention also provides methods of producing a complement factor B protein analog comprising expressing in a cell a complement factor B protein analog of the invention and purifying the complement factor B protein analog.

There are three pathways of complement activation the classical pathway the alternative pathway and the lectin pathway . Described herein are examples of complement factor B protein analogs of the invention. In some embodiments these complement factor B protein analogs can attenuate the alternative pathway of complement activation. However based on the way all three complement pathways intersect these analogs can diminish inflammation caused by any of the three complement pathways and thereby provide therapy for any illness whose etiology involves at least in part complement activation. These include but are not limited to early AMD wet AMD and geographic atrophy. outline complement pathways. Note that they intersect at C3b.

The invention provides methods of treating a complement mediated disease comprising administering to a patient a pharmaceutical preparation of the invention a complement factor B analog of the invention or a nucleic acid or vector encoding a complement factor B analog of the invention. The invention also includes methods of inhibiting complement activity wherein the method comprises administering to a human subject a mutated human complement factor B analog in an amount sufficient to inhibit a complement pathway by competing with binding of native complement factor B in the subject wherein the mutated human complement factor B analog is an active complement factor B analog of SEQ ID NO 4 having cysteine amino acids that form disulfide bonds and a free cysteine amino acid that has been substituted by an amino acid selected from the group consisting of histidine isoleucine leucine methionine phenylalanine serine threonine tyrosine and valine. In some embodiments the mutated complement factor B analog comprises SEQ ID NO 2 3 22 or 23.

The invention also provides methods of inhibiting complement activity wherein the methods comprise introducing to a site of the complement activity a complement factor B analog of the invention a nucleic acid of the invention a viral vector of the invention a pharmaceutical composition preparation of the invention or any combination thereof in an amount sufficient to inhibit the complement activity. In some embodiments a method of the invention utilizes a complement factor B is an analog of SEQ ID NO 4 having cysteine amino acids that form disulfide bonds and a free cysteine amino acid that has been substituted by another amino acid.

The invention provides methods of inhibiting complement activity wherein the methods comprise introducing to a site of the complement activity a mutated human complement factor B analog in an amount sufficient to inhibit the complement activity by the mutated human complement factor B analog competing with binding of native complement factor B wherein the mutated human complement factor B analog is an active complement factor B analog of SEQ ID NO 4 having cysteine amino acids that form disulfide bonds and a free cysteine amino acid that has been substituted by an amino acid. In some embodiments this method utilizes a complement factor B analog comprising amino acids 26 764 of SEQ ID NO 2 amino acids 26 764 of SEQ ID NO 3 amino acids 26 990 of SEQ ID NO 22 or amino acids 26 990 of SEQ ID NO 23.

Complement pathways are a part of the immune system known as the innate immune system that provides immediate protection from infection prior to activation of the humoral and cell mediated branches of the immune system. They are activated and inactivated through cascading reactions that exhibit high order kinetics but are remarkably well regulated. The alternative complement pathway in particular has evolved to cycle up with great rapidity through a positive feedback loop.

Complement factor B protein analogs of the invention and or the vectors that express them may advantageously be used for local and or systemic administration to a mammal and or to treat chronic diseases. In some embodiments of the invention a complement factor B analog inhibits a complement pathway by competing with binding of the native complement factor B e.g. to C3b protein and or factor D protein. This can allow attenuation of complement activity as opposed to complete blockade of the pathway. Therefore it may be possible to downregulate complement activity to a level that is therapeutic e.g. alleviates some symptoms or their severity without completely blocking complement activity. Thus avoiding or decreasing the risks associated with blockage of complement activity such as increased risk of infection. Therefore the present invention provides methods for treating a complement mediated disease e.g. a chronic disease by local or systemic administration e.g. i.v. intraperitoneal or oral of a complement factor B protein analog of the invention.

In some embodiments the present invention provides compositions and methods for modulating regulating inhibiting and or enhancing a complement activity. Complement related pathways include but are not limited to the classical lectin and alternative complement pathways. In some cases a complement related pathway may play a role in a particular condition disease or diseases. Therefore some embodiments of the invention provide methods of regulating modifying curing inhibiting preventing ameliorating slowing progression of and or treating a disease state mediated by one or more complement related pathways by administering a complement factor B analog of the invention or a nucleic acid or vector encoding a complement factor B analog of the invention. Such disease states or conditions include but are not limited to drusen formation macular degeneration AMD dry eye corneal ulcers atherosclerosis diabetic retinopathy vitreoretinopathy Grisanti et al. Invest. Ophthalmol. Vis. Sci. 32 2711 2717 corneal inflammation airway hyperresponsiveness immune related diseases autoimmune related diseases lupus nephritis systemic lupus erythematosus SLE arthritis e.g. rheumatoid arthritis rheumatologic diseases anti phospholipid antibody syndrome intestinal and renal I R injury asthma atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome Type II membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis non proliferative glomerulonephritis fetal loss e.g. spontaneous fetal loss glaucoma uveitis ocular hypertension brain injury e.g. traumatic brain injury stroke e.g. see Arumugam et al. PNAS 93 12 5872 6 1996 post traumatic organ damage thermal trauma e.g. burn injury post infarction organ damage e.g. cardiac neurological vasculitis Kawasaki disease hereditary angioedema HAE paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria PNH sometimes referred to as Marchiafava Micheli syndrome colitis inflammatory bowel disease tumor metastasis ischemic reperfusion injury cerebrovascular accident Alzheimer s disease transplant rejection e.g. xeno and allo infections sepsis septic shock Sj gren s syndrome myasthenia gravis antibody mediated skin diseases all antibody mediated organ specific diseases including Type I and Type II diabetes mellitus thyroiditis idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura and hemolytic anemia and neuropathies insulin resistance syndrome e.g. see Weyer et al. 2000 Diabetes Care 23 6 779 785 gestational diabetes multiple sclerosis psoriasis cardiopulmonary bypass injury polyarteritis nodosa Henoch Schonlein purpura serum sickness Goodpasture s disease systemic necrotizing vasculitis post streptococcal glomerulonephritis idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis usual interstitial pneumonitis membranous glomerulonephritis myocarditis e.g. autoimmune myocarditis Kaya et al. Nat Immunol. 2001 2 8 739 45 myocardial infarction muscular dystrophy e.g. associated with dystrophin deficiency acute shock lung syndrome adult respiratory distress syndrome reperfusion and or a complement mediated disease.

In some embodiments a complement mediated disease is a disease of the eye. In some embodiments a complement factor B analog or pharmaceutical composition is administered to the eye for example by intravitreal injection subretinal injection injection to the intraanterior chamber of the eye injection or application locally to the cornea subconjunctival injection subtenon injection or by eye drops. In some embodiments a pharmaceutical composition is administered to the eye wherein the pharmaceutical composition comprises at least one complement factor B analog e.g. selected from the group hfB3 292S SEQ ID NO 2 hfB3 292S 740N SEQ ID NO 3 hfB3 292S Fc SEQ ID NO 22 and hfB3 292S 740N Fc SEQ ID NO 23 .

Age related macular degeneration AMD is the most common cause of decreased vision in individuals over 65 years of age in the developed world. Dry AMD is characterized by a progressive degeneration of the macula causing central field visual loss. A more acute debilitating AMD includes florid neovascularization and extravasation in the retina known as wet AMD. There is currently no effective therapy for AMD.

A characteristic of AMD is the accumulation of drusen located between the basal lamina of the retinal pigment epithelium RPE and the inner layer of Bruch s membrane Pauleikhoff et al. 1990 Am. J. Ophthalmol. 109 38 43 Bressler et al. 1990 Arch. Ophthalmol. 108 1442 1447 . Drusen as well as other age related changes that occur proximal to Bruch s membrane are believed to contribute to the dysfunction and degeneration of the RPE and retina by inducing ischemia as well as restricting the exchange of nutrient and waste products between the retina and choroid reviewed by Bird 1992 Pathophysiology of AMD. In Hampton G. and Nelsen P. T. eds. Chap. 3 Raven Press New York . Several studies have indicated immune mediated processes in the development of AMD Importantly autoantibodies were detected in the sera of AMD patients Penfold et al. 1990 Graefes Arch. Clin. Exp. Ophthalmol. 228 270 274 as predicted by the hypothesis that immune and inflammatory mediated processes are involved in the development and or removal of drusen.

The formation of drusen in the eye can be associated with various diseases such as macular degeneration. In some cases drusen formation and or its association with a disease has been implicated to be related to complement activity. Some embodiments of the invention provide compositions and methods for modulating regulating inhibiting reducing retarding and or reversing the formation or growth of drusen in an animal such as a human. For example compositions or molecules of the invention may be delivered to drusen e.g. by direct injection into drusen intradrusen injection adjacent to drusen or intravitreal injection . Some embodiments of the invention can be utilized to slow the progression of macular degeneration possibly by inhibiting drusen formation. Vitronectin an abundant component of drusen is also a component of extracellular deposits associated with atherosclerosis Niculescu et al. 1989 Atherosclerosis 78 197 203 amyloidosis Dahlback et al. 1993 J. Invest. Dermatol. 100 166 170 elastosis Dahlback et al. 1988 Acta Derm. Venereol. 68 107 115 and MPGN type II Jansen et al. 1993 Am. J. Pathol. 143 1356 1365 . Vitronectin is a multifunctional protein that functions in cell adhesion maintenance of hemostasis and inhibition of complement induced cell lysis Preissner 1991 Ann Rev. Cell Biol. 7 275 310 . Furthermore atherosclerotic plaques share a number of other constituents with drusen such as complement components and apoliproprotein E. An association between advanced AMD and atherosclerosis of carotid arteries was reported in an epidemiological study Vingerling et al. 1995 Am. J. Epidemiol. 142 404 409 and another study identified a significant correlation between elastotic degeneration of nonsolar exposed dermis and choroidal neovascularization in AMD patients Blumenkranz et al. 1986 Ophthalmology 93 552 558 . Finally amyloid peptide a major constituent of neuritic plaques in Alzheimer s disease is also found in drusen Johnson et al. 2002 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 99 11830 11835 . Amyloid peptide has been implicated as a primary activator of complement Bradt et al. 1998 J. Exp. Med. 188 431 438 .

Comprehensive analysis of the molecular composition of human drusen as well as of the RPE cells that flank or overlie drusen demonstrated immunoreactivity to immunoglobulins and components of the complement system that are associated with immune complex deposition Johnson et al. 2000 Exp. Eye Res. 70 441 449 . Drusen also contains multifunctional proteins such as vitronectin Hageman et al. 1999 FASEB J. 13 477 484 and apolipoprotein E Anderson et al. 2001 Am. J. Ophthalmol. 131 767 781 that play a role in immune system modulation. In addition molecules involved in the acute phase response to inflammation such as amyloid P component and antitrypsin have also been identified in drusen Mullins et al. 2000 The FASEB Journal 14 835 846 as well as proteins involved in coagulation and fibrinolysis factor X thrombin and fibrinogen Mullins et al. 2000 The FASEB Journal 14 835 846 . Drusen formation and associated RPE pathology were suggested to contribute to a chronic inflammatory response that activates the complement cascade Hageman et al. 2001 Frog. Retin Eye Res. 20 705 732 Johnson et al. 2001 Exp. Eye Res. 73 887 896 .

One other form of an optic disorder arising from AMD and resulting in perturbations of the retina is geographic atrophy which leads to death of patches of rod and cone cells as well as of the RPE cells.

Atherosclerosis has been shown to typically involve complement related pathways e.g. see Niculescu et al. Immunologic Research 30 1 73 80 8 2004 and Niculescu and Horea immunologic Research 30 1 73 80 2004 . Complement activation and C5b 9 deposition typically occurs both in human and experimental atherosclerosis. C5b 9 may be responsible for cell lysis and sublytic assembly of C5b 9 induces smooth muscle cell SMC and endothelial cell EC activation and proliferation. Complement C6 deficiency has a protective effect on diet induced atherosclerosis suggesting that C5b 9 assembly is required for or at least plays a significant role in the progression of atherosclerotic lesions e.g. see Niculescu and Horea immunologic Research 30 1 73 80 2004 . Some embodiments of the invention may be used to inhibit the formation of C5b 9 and or inhibit atherosclerosis. In some embodiments a complement factor B protein analog of the invention is administered to a site or potential site of atherosclerosis. This complement factor B protein analog inhibits a pathway e.g. the classical and or alternative complement pathway which in turn inhibits the formation or activation of C5b 9 or another complement pathway related compound involved in atherosclerosis. There may be other complement related proteins involved in atherosclerosis whose formation and or activation may be inhibited or blocked in a similar manner.

Airway hyperresponsiveness AHR is characteristic of various diseases including but not limited to asthma e.g. allergic asthma . AHR has been shown to typically involve complement related pathways e.g. see Taube et al. 2006 PNAS 103 20 8084 8089 Park et al. American Journal of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine 169 726 732 2004 Thurman and Holers J Immunology 176 1305 1310 2006 and U.S. Patent Publication No. 20050260198. Park. et al. showed that. Crry Ig administered by intraperitoneal injection had an effect AHR. Some embodiments of the invention provide compositions and methods for modulating regulating inhibiting and or reducing AHR in an animal such as a human. Specific AHR related diseases that may be treated alleviated inhibited and or ameliorated include but are not limited to asthma chronic obstructive pulmonary disease COPD allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis hypersensitivity pneumonia eosinophilic pneumonia emphysema bronchitis allergic bronchitis bronchiectasis cystic fibrosis tuberculosis hypersensitivity pneumonitis occupational asthma sarcoid reactive airway disease syndrome interstitial lung disease hyper eosinophilic syndrome rhinitis sinusitis exercise induced asthma pollution induced asthma cough variant asthma parasitic lung disease respiratory syncytial virus RSV infection parainfluenza virus PIV infection rhinovirus RV infection Hantaan virus e.g. four corners strain and adenovirus infection

Immune related diseases such as autoimmune related diseases HLA B27 associated inflammatory diseases lupus nephritis and systemic lupus erythematosus SLE have been shown to typically involve complement related pathways e.g. see Thurman and Holers Immunology 176 1305 1310 2006 . Lupus nephritis is one complication of SLE. It is related to the autoimmune process of lupus where the immune system produces antibodies antinuclear antibody and others against body components. Complexes of these antibodies and complement components typically accumulate in the kidneys and result in an inflammatory response. Some embodiments of the invention provide methods and compositions for regulating modifying curing inhibiting preventing ameliorating and or treating an immune related disease e.g. involving or related to a complement pathway such as SLE.

Arthritis has been shown to typically involve complement related pathways e.g. see Thurman and Holers J Immunology 176 1305 1310 2006 and Banda et al. J Immunol. 177 3 1904 12 2006 . The alternative complement pathway plays a significant role in the induction of arthritis and the alternative complement pathway may even be required. Some embodiments of the invention provide methods and compositions for regulating modifying curing inhibiting preventing ameliorating and or treating arthritis e.g. rheumatoid arthritis or inflammatory arthritis.

Paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria PNH a potentially life threatening disease of the blood characterized by complement induced intravascular hemolytic anemia and thrombosis due to intravascular destruction of red blood cells RBCs by complement resulting in uncontrolled amplification of the complement system that leads to destruction of the RBC membrane. Persons with this disease typically have blood cells that are missing a gene called PIG A. This gene allows a substance called glycosyl phosphatidylinositol GPI to help certain proteins stick to cells. Without PIG A complement regulating proteins cannot connect to the cell surface and protect the cell from complement. Some embodiments of the invention provide methods and compositions for regulating modifying curing inhibiting preventing ameliorating and or treating Paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria.

Hereditary angioedema HAE is a potentially life threatening genetic condition typically caused by a deficiency of the C1 inhibitor a protein of the complement system. Symptoms include episodes of edema swelling in various body parts including the hands feet face and airway. Hereditary angioedema HAE exists in three forms all of which are caused by a genetic mutation that is inherited in an autosomal dominant form. Types I and II are caused by mutations in the SERPING1 gene which result in either diminished levels or dysfunctional forms of the C1 inhibitor protein type I HAE . Type III HAE has been linked with mutations in the F12 gene which encodes the coagulation protein Factor XII. All forms of HAE lead to abnormal activation of the complement system. Some current treatments include Ecallantide a peptide inhibitor of kallikrein e.g. see U.S. Patent Publication No. US20070213275 Icatibant Firazyr Jerini which is a selective bradykinin receptor antagonist and Cinryze Viropharma Inc. a C1 esterase inhibitor. Some embodiments of the invention provide methods and compositions for regulating modifying curing inhibiting preventing ameliorating and or treating Paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria.

Glaucoma is a group of diseases of the optic nerve involving loss of retinal ganglion cells in a characteristic pattern of optic neuropathy. Approximately 25 of glaucoma patients with retinal ganglion cell loss have normal ocular pressure. Ocular hypertension OHT is a significant risk factor for developing glaucoma and lowering it via pharmaceuticals or surgery is currently the mainstay of glaucoma treatment. Ocular hypertension and glaucoma have been shown to typically involve complement related pathways e.g. see Khalyfa et al. Molecular Vision 13 293 308 2007 Stasi et al. IOVS 47 3 1024 1029 2007 and Kuehn et al. Experimental Eye Research 83 620 628 2006 . Expression and or the presence of C1q and C3 have been shown to be higher in retina subjected to OHT. Some embodiments of the invention provide methods and compositions for regulating modifying curing inhibiting preventing ameliorating and or treating glaucoma.

Uveitis has been shown to typically be associated with the complement pathway e.g. see Mondino and Rao Investigative Ophthalmology Visual Science 24 380 384 1983 and Jha et al. Molecular Immunology 44 3901 3908 2007 . Mondino and Rao found that mean values of all tested complement components in aqueous humor to serum measurements were increased in patients with a history of previous eye surgeries and were highest in patients with anterior uveitis. Some embodiments of the invention provide methods and compositions for regulating modifying curing inhibiting preventing ameliorating and or treating uveitis.

Diabetic retinopathy is one of the leading causes of vision loss in middle aged individuals. Activation of the complement system is believed to play an important role in the pathogenesis of diabetic retinopathy e.g. see Jha et al. Molecular Immunology 44 3901 3908 2007 . Some embodiments of the invention provide methods and compositions for regulating modifying curing inhibiting preventing ameliorating and or treating diabetic retinopathy.

Proliferative vitreoretinopathy PV is one of the most common complications of retinal detachment. PV has been linked to complement activity e.g. see Grisante et al. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 1991 32 10 2711 7 and Grisante et al. Ophthalmologe 1992 89 1 50 4. Some embodiments of the invention provide methods and compositions for regulating modifying curing inhibiting preventing ameliorating and or treating PV.

Anti phospholipid antibody syndrome intestinal and renal ischemic reperfusion I R injury atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome Type II membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis and fetal loss e.g. spontaneous fetal loss have been shown to typically involve complement related pathways e.g. see Thurman and Holers J Immunology 176 1305 1310 2006 .

Brain injury e.g. traumatic brain injury has been shown to typically involve complement related pathways e.g. see Leinhase et al. J Neuroinflammation 4 13 2007 and BMC Neurosci. 7 55 2006 . Leinhase 2006 showed that after experimental traumatic brain injury in wild type fB mice there was a time dependent systemic complement activation. In contrast the extent of systemic complement activation was significantly attenuated in fB mice. Some embodiments of the invention provide methods and compositions for regulating modifying curing inhibiting preventing ameliorating and or treating neuronal cell death traumatic neural injury e.g. brain complement mediated neuroinflammation and or neuropathology.

Ischemia reperfusion injury can cause increases in the production of or oxidation of various potentially harmful compounds produced by cells and tissues which can lead to oxidative damage to or death of cells and tissues. For example renal ischemia reperfusion injury can result in histological damage to the kidneys including kidney tubular damage and changes characteristic of acute tubular necrosis. The resultant renal dysfunction permits the accumulation of nitrogenous wastes ordinarily excreted by the kidney such as serum urea nitrogen SUN . Ischemia reperfusion may also cause injury to remote organs such as the lung. Some embodiments of the invention utilize modulators such as inhibitors of a complement pathway e.g. inhibitors of factor B activity e.g. when administered to an animal that has or is at risk of experiencing or developing ischemia reperfusion. In some embodiments these modulators prevent reduce or inhibit at least one symptom of injury due to ischemia reperfusion. Other types of ischemia reperfusion injury that can be prevented or reduced using methods and compositions of the invention include but are not limited to cardiac ischemia reperfusion injury such as myocardial infarction or coronary bypass surgery central nervous system ischemia reperfusion injury ischemia reperfusion injury of the limbs or digits ischemia reperfusion of internal organs such as the lung liver or intestine or ischemia reperfusion injury of any transplanted organ or tissue. See e.g. PCT Publication No. WO03 061765 which discusses myocardial infarction and complement pathways.

Inflammation is a major etiologic determinant of myocardial infarction Ridker 2007 Nutr. Rev. 65 12 Pt 2 5253 9 . It has also been shown that delivery e.g. intracoronary of bone marrow stem cells leads to an improvement in systolic function after acute myocardial infarction Wollert 2008 Curr. Opin. Pharmacol. January 31 Epub . Also bone marrow stem cells can regenerate infarcted myocardium Orlic et al. 2003 Pediatr. Transplant. 7 Suppl 3 86 88 . Mesenchymal stem cells have been shown to provide a cardiac protective effect in ischemic heart disease Guo et al. 2007 Inflammation 30 3 4 97 104 . In the present invention delivery of the stem cells can be by any means such as intracoronary injection injection directly into myocardium e.g. into diseased and or healthy myocardium e.g. adjacent to the injured area . In some embodiments a mammal is treated with cytokines to mobilize their bone marrow stem cells in the circulation allowing the stem cells to traffic to the myocardial infarct.

Various stem cells have been used in vivo for various applications. One problem with the use of stem cells in vivo is the lower than desired survival and or seeding of the stem cells e.g. in the area of interest. One significant reason for low seeding and survival of stems cells can be inflammation at the site. Therefore the present invention provides a method of treatment and or a method of improving stem cell survival and or seeding. In some embodiments these methods comprise administering a composition of the invention before during and or after administration or mobilization of stem cells. In some embodiments complement inhibitors of the invention act as anti inflammatory agents that will create a favorable environment for stem cells to home in and survive in the area of desired seeding e.g. damaged heart or bone marrow and therefore repair or replace the damaged tissue. Stem cells may be administered in a solution that also contains a complement factor B protein analog of the invention. Stem cells may be but are not limited to hematopoietic stem cells embryonic stem cells mesenchymal stem cells neural stem cells mammary stem cells olfactory stem cells pancreatic islet stem cells totipotent stem cells multipotent stem cells or pluripotent stem cells. The stem cells may be autologous allogeneic or syngeneic.

Complement activity appears to be involved in muscular dystrophy e.g. associated with dystrophin deficiency . For example see PCT Publication No. WO2007130031 Spuler Engel 1998 Neurology 50 41 46 and Selcen et al. 2001 Neurology 56 1472 1481. Therefore some embodiments of the invention provide methods and compositions for regulating modifying curing inhibiting preventing ameliorating and or treating muscular dystrophy.

Complement activity may contribute to corneal inflammation. Therefore some embodiments of the invention provide methods and compositions for regulating modifying curing inhibiting preventing ameliorating and or treating corneal inflammation e.g. after surgery. In some embodiments a complement factor B analog of the invention is administered via eye drops or as otherwise described herein.

In some embodiments complement factor B analogs of the invention are used for regulating modifying curing inhibiting preventing ameliorating and or treating corneal neovascularization.

Some embodiments of the invention provide methods for enhancing the efficacy of post coronary or peripheral artery bypass grafting or angioplasty. In some embodiments a vector of the invention encoding a complement factor B protein analog of the invention e.g. hfB3 292S or hfB3 292S 740N is used to transduce cells of a blood vessel e.g. endothelial cells . In some embodiments cells of a blood vessel are transduced prior to implantation in an animal. In some embodiments cells of a blood vessel are transduced in vivo.

Alleviating pain and suffering and inflammation in postoperative patients is an area of special focus in clinical medicine especially with the growing number of out patient operations performed each year. Complement factor B analogs of the present invention can be utilized to inhibit inflammation e.g. by inhibiting a complement activity. Therefore complement factor B analogs can be used to reduce inflammation e.g. in postoperative patients. In some embodiments a complement factor B analog is administered locally e.g. perioperative delivery to a site of surgery to inhibit inflammation which in some cases will reduce pain and suffering. In some embodiments a complement factor B analog is administered in a solution e.g. in a physiologic electrolyte carrier fluid. In some embodiments a complement factor B analog is delivered via perioperative delivery directly to a surgical site of an irrigation solution containing the composition. In some embodiments due to the local perioperative delivery method of the present invention a desired therapeutic effect may be achieved with lower doses of agents than are necessary when employing other methods of delivery such as intravenous intramuscular subcutaneous and oral. In some embodiments when used preoperatively the solution will result in a clinically significant decrease in operative site pain and or inflammation thereby allowing a decrease in the patient s postoperative analgesic e.g. opiate requirement and where appropriate allowing earlier patient mobilization of the operative site. In some embodiments no extra effort on the part of the surgeon and operating room personnel is required to use the present solution relative to conventional irrigation fluids. In some embodiments a composition of the invention is used e.g. in irrigation fluid for arthroscopy cardiovascular and general vascular therapeutic and diagnostic procedures urologic procedures general surgical wounds and wounds in general. Compositions of the invention may be delivered by but not limited to injection e.g. via syringe via irrigation fluid as part of a bandage over a wound or in a topical application such as a solution cream gel or the like.

In some embodiments of the invention a complement factor B analog and or vector of the invention is administered in combination with a complement inhibiting factor prior to concurrently with or after administration of the complement factor B analog and or vector. A complement inhibiting factor includes but is not limited to a Factor H a Factor H like 1 an MCP a DAF or a soluble form of an MCP.

In some embodiments of the invention a complement factor B analog or vector of the invention is administered in combination with an anti angiogenic factor. Anti angiogenic factors include but is not limited to endostatin a VEGF binding molecule PEDF T2 TrpRS e.g. see U.S. Pat. No. 7 273 844 sFLT e.g. see Kong et al. Hum Gene Ther 1998 9 823 833 aflibercept VEGF Trap VEGF Trap eye kininostatin ranibizumab and bevacizumab.

In some embodiments a complement factor B analog and or vector of the invention is administered in combination with LUCENTIS ranibizumab AVASTIN bevacizumab VEGF Trap eye aflibercept or a molecule s that binds VEGF and or that inhibits angiogenesis. LUCENTIS is used to treat wet AMD. Some embodiments of the invention can also be used to treat wet AMD. Therefore the present invention provides methods and compositions for treating wet AMD comprising administering separately or together a composition of the invention in combination with LUCENTIS ranibizumab AVASTIN Bevacizumab VEGF Trap eye aflibercept and or a molecule s that binds VEGF and or that inhibits angiogenesis. Additionally intraocular inflammation is one of the most common adverse reactions reported after administration of LUCENTIS e.g. see the Full Prescribing Information for LUCENTIS . The present invention provides a method for inhibiting or reducing intraocular inflammation e.g. resulting from the administration of LUCENTIS comprising administering a molecule or composition of the invention prior to at the same time and or after the administration of LUCENTIS VEGF Trap eye or aflibercept.

In some embodiments of the invention a complement factor B analog or vector of the invention is administered in combination with another compound s such as a compound that inhibits T cell activation B cells TNF interleukin 1 e.g. interleukin 1b interleukin 6 and or interferon gamma. A complement factor B analog or vector of the invention can also be administered in combination with a compound s that inhibits complement activity e.g. alternative complement activity. Compounds that can be used and which inhibit TNF include but are not limited to compounds that bind TNF such as antibodies e.g. Infliximab REMICADE Golimumab SIMPONI and Adalimumab HUMIRA or soluble receptors that bind TNF such as Etanercept ENBREL . Other compounds that can be used and which inhibit T cell activation include but are not limited to compounds that bind B7 such as abatacept ORENCIA . Also compounds which downregulate B cells can be used including but not limited to compounds that bind CD20 such as Rituximab RITUXAN and MABTHERA .

Complement pathways contributing to and or causing a disease can be modulated regulated inhibited and or activated using various methods and or complement factor B protein analogs that are part of the present invention.

Some embodiments of the invention provide compositions e.g. pharmaceutical compositions containing a complement factor B analog of the invention such as for therapeutic uses. In some embodiments a pharmaceutical composition comprises a complement factor B analog comprising amino acids 26 764 of SEQ ID NO 2 amino acids 26 764 of SEQ ID NO 3 amino acids 26 990 of SEQ ID NO 22 or amino acids 26 990 of SEQ ID NO 23 for example hfB3 292S SEQ ID NO 2 hfB3 292S 740N SEQ ID NO 3 hfB3 292S Fc SEQ ID NO 22 or hfB3 292S 740N Fc SEQ ID NO 23 . In some embodiments a pharmaceutical composition comprises a complement factor B analog consisting of amino acids 26 764 of SEQ ID NO 2 amino acids 26 764 of SEQ ID NO 3 amino acids 26 990 of SEQ ID NO 22 or amino acids 26 990 of SEQ ID NO 23. Examples of pharmaceutical compositions and formulations that can be used with the complement factor B analogs of the invention are described in PCT Publication No. WO08 106644 and U.S. Patent Publication No. US20100120665.

Some embodiments of the invention include pharmaceutical preparations comprising a complement factor B protein analog of the invention a nucleic acid of the invention a viral vector of the invention or any combination thereof.

Formulations e.g. for injection are generally but not necessarily biocompatible solutions of the active ingredient e.g. comprising Hank s solution or Ringer s solution. Formulations for transdermal or transmucosal administration generally include but are not limited penetrants such as fusidic acid or bile salts in combination with detergents or surface active agents. In some embodiments formulations can be manufactured as aerosols suppositories or patches. In some embodiments oral administration may not be favored for protein or peptide active ingredients however this type of composition may be suitably formulated e.g. in an enteric coated form in a depot in a capsule and so on so as to be protected from the digestive enzymes so that oral administration can also be employed. Some formulations of the invention comprise balanced salt solution Alcon Laboratories Inc. Fort Worth Tex. or balanced salt solution plus Alcon Laboratories Inc. . In some embodiments a formulation comprises one or more of the following citrate NaCl e.g. 0.64 potassium chloride KCl e.g. 0.075 calcium chloride dihydrate CaCl.2HO e.g. 0.048 magnesium chloride hexahydrate MgCl.6HO e.g. 0.03 sodium acetate trihydrate CHCONa.3HO e.g. 0.39 sodium citrate dihydrate CHONa.2HO e.g. 0.17 sucrose and sodium hydroxide and or hydrochloric acid to adjust pH and water. The preceding list includes some molecules that are listed as particular hydrates e.g. dihydrate trihydrate hexahydrate etc. It is understood that various hydrates of these compounds can be used in the present invention and the invention is not limited to these particular hydrate forms of the listed molecules. In some embodiments a formulation comprises one or more of the following NaCl monobasic phosphate monohydrate dibasic sodium phosphate heptahydrate and hydrochloric acid and or sodium hydroxide to adjust pH and water. In some embodiments a pharmaceutical composition comprises at least one ingredient selected from the group consisting of histidine MgCl trehalose a polysorbate polysorbate 20 NaCl sucrose arginine and proline. In some embodiments a formulation comprises one or more of the following histidine e.g. about 10 mM trehalose dehydrate e.g. about 10 or about 50 mM MgCl e.g. about 10 mM a polysorbate such as polysorbate 20 e.g. about 0.01 and NaCl e.g. about 0.1 . In some embodiments a formulation may comprise one or more of the following sucrose arginine or proline. In some embodiments a formulation comprises or consists of a molecule s of the present invention 10 mM histidine 10 mM MgCl 50 mM trehalose and 0.01 polysorbate 20. In some embodiments a formulation comprises or consists of a molecule s of the present invention 1.0 NaCl and 10 mM MgCl. In some embodiments a formulation comprises or consists of a molecule s of the present invention and a balanced salt solution enriched with bicarbonate dextrose and glutathione such as BSS PLUS . In some embodiments a formulation does not comprise trehalose. In some embodiments a formulation or composition is at a pH of about 5.5. In some embodiments a formulation or composition is at a pH of between from about 5.0 to 9.0 about 5.0 to 5.5 about 5.3 to 5.7 about 5.5 to 6.0 about 5.8 to 6.2 about 6.0 to 6.5 about 6.3 to 6.7 about 6.5 to 7.0 about 6.8 to 7.2 about 7.0 to 7.5 about 7.3 to 7.7 about 7.5 to 8.0 about 7.8 to 8.2 about 8.0 to 8.5 about 8.3 to 8.7 and about 8.5 to 9.0 whatever is suitable to retain the biological activity and stability of the active ingredient s .

Some formulations of the invention can be manufactured as aerosols suppositories eye drops or patches.

Examples of suitable formulations and formulatory methods for a desired mode of administration may be found in Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences latest edition Mack Publishing Co. Easton Pa. and in U.S. Pat. No. 7 208 577.

In some embodiments a composition for use in vivo contains a carrier or a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier . The term carrier refers to a diluent adjuvant excipient or vehicle with which the vector of interest is administered. The term carrier includes but is not limited to either solid or liquid material which may be inorganic or organic and of synthetic or natural origin with which an active component s of the composition is mixed or formulated to facilitate administration to a subject.

In general a suitable oil s saline aqueous dextrose glucose and related sugar solutions and glycols such as propylene glycol or polyethylene glycols are typically suitable carriers for parenteral solutions. In some embodiments solutions for parenteral administration contain a water soluble salt of the active ingredient suitable stabilizing agents and if desirable or necessary buffer substances. Antioxidizing agents such as sodium bisulfite sodium sulfite or ascorbic acid either alone or combined can be used as stabilizing agents. Also used are citric acid and its salts and sodium EDTA. In addition parenteral solutions can contain preservatives such as benzalkonium chloride methyl or propyl paraben and chlorobutanol.

Carriers can include carbohydrates such as trehalose mannitol glutathione xylitol sucrose lactose and sorbitol. Other ingredients for use in formulations may include for example DPPC 1 2 Didecanoyl sn glycero 3 phosphocholine DOPE 1 2 Dioleoyl sn glycero 3 phosphoethanolamine DSPC 1 2 Distearoyl sn glycero 3 phosphocholinez 1 2 Distearoyl sn glycero 3 phosphocholine and DOPC 1 2 Dioleoyl sn glycero 3 phosphocholine . Natural or synthetic surfactants may be used. Polyethylene glycol may be used even apart from its use in derivatizing a protein . Dextrans such as cyclodextran may be used. In some embodiments cyclodextrin tertiary amines and or beta cyclodextrin may be used. Bile salts and other related enhancers may be used. Cellulose and cellulose derivatives may be used. Amino acids may be used such as use in a buffer formulation. Also the use of liposomes microcapsules or microspheres inclusion complexes or other types of carriers is contemplated.

Suitable pharmaceutical excipients include but are not limited to starch glucose lactose sucrose gelatin antibiotics preservatives malt rice flour chalk silica gel sodium stearate glycerol monostearate talc sodium chloride dried skim milk glycerol propylene glycol water ethanol and the like. A composition if desired can also contain wetting and or emulsifying agents and or pH buffering agents. Where necessary a composition may also include a solubilizing agent and or a local anesthetic such as lignocaine to ease pain at the site of the injection.

Also contemplated herein is pulmonary delivery of an agent or protein or derivative thereof of the present invention. In some embodiments a complement factor B analog s is delivered to the lungs of a mammal while inhaling and can mostly remain in the lungs or in some embodiments traverses across the lung epithelial lining to the blood stream. e.g. see Adjei et al. Pharmaceutical Research 7 565 569 1990 Adjei et al. International Journal of Pharmaceutics 63 135 144 1990 Braquet et al. Journal of Cardiovascular Pharmacology 13 suppl. 5 s. 143 146 1989 Hubbard et al. Annals of Internal Medicine 3 206 212 1989 Smith et al. J. Clin. Invest. 84 1145 1146 1989 Oswein et al. Proceedings of Symposium on Respiratory Drug Delivery II Keystone Colo. March 1990 Debs et al. The Journal of Immunology 140 3482 3488 1988 and Platz et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 284 656 . Contemplated for use in the practice of this invention are a wide range of mechanical devices designed for pulmonary delivery of therapeutic products including but not limited to nebulizers metered dose inhalers and powder inhalers. Some specific examples of commercially available devices suitable for the practice of some embodiments of the invention are the ULTRAVENT nebulizer manufactured by Mallinckrodt Inc. St. Louis Mo. the ACORN II nebulizer manufactured by Marquest Medical Products Englewood Colo. the VENTOLIN metered dose inhaler manufactured by Glaxo Inc. Research Triangle Park N.C. and the SPINHALER powder inhaler manufactured by Fisons Corp. Bedford Mass.

In some embodiments a protein is prepared in particulate form. In some embodiments this particulate form has an average particle size of less than 10 m or microns most preferably 0.5 to 5 m for delivery to the distal lung.

Formulations suitable for use with a nebulizer e.g. jet or ultrasonic will typically comprise a complement factor B analog dissolved in water in some embodiments at a concentration of about 0.1 to about 25 mg of biologically active protein per mL of solution. A formulation may also include a buffer and or a simple sugar e.g. for protein stabilization and regulation of osmotic pressure . A nebulizer formulation may also contain a surfactant to reduce or prevent surface induced aggregation of a protein s caused by atomization of the solution in forming the aerosol.

Formulations for use with a metered dose inhaler device will generally comprise a finely divided powder containing a complement factor B analog of the invention suspended in a propellant e.g. with the aid of a surfactant. A propellant may be any conventional material employed for this purpose such as a chlorofluorocarbon a hydrochlorofluorocarbon a hydrofluorocarbon or a hydrocarbon including trichlorofluoromethane dichlorodifluoromethane dichlorotetrafluoroethanol and 1 1 1 2 tetrafluoroethane or combinations thereof. Suitable surfactants include sorbitan trioleate and soya lecithin. Oleic acid may also be useful as a surfactant. In some embodiments formulations for dispensing from a powder inhaler device will comprise a finely divided dry powder containing a complement factor B analog of the invention and may also include a bulking agent such as lactose sorbitol sucrose mannitol trehalose or xylitol in amounts which facilitate dispersal of the powder from the device e.g. 50 to 90 by weight of the formulation.

It is understood that when introduction or administration of a nucleic acid encoding a complement factor B protein analog is discussed that the invention also contemplates the introduction or administration of the complement factor B protein analog itself. It is understood that when introduction of a complement factor B analog is discussed that the invention also contemplates the introduction of a nucleic acid encoding the complement factor B protein analog.

In some embodiments complement factor B analogs or compositions of the invention can be administered locally or systemically. Useful routes of administration are described herein and known in the art. Methods of introduction or administration include but are not limited to intradermal intramuscular intraperitoneal intravenous subcutaneous intranasal intratracheal topical inhaled transdermal rectal parenteral routes epidural intracranial into the brain intraventricular subdural intraarticular intrathecal intracardiac intracoronary intravitreal subretinal intraanterior chamber of the eye particular locally on the cornea subconjunctival subtenon injection by applying eyedrops oral routes via balloon catheter via stent or any combinations thereof. In some embodiments a composition or complement factor B analog of the invention is administered to a drusen e.g. by injecting directly into a drusen. Systemic administration may be but is not limited to by intravenous or intra arterial injection or by transmucosal subcutaneous and or transdermal delivery. In some embodiments a composition of the invention may be initially directed to a site other than a diseased site. For example regarding AHR which occurs in the lungs of an animal an intraperitoneal injection of a protein vector or nucleic acid of the invention may result in a change in AHR in the lungs e.g. see Park et al. American Journal of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine 169 726 732 2004 . In some embodiments a dosage level and or mode of administration of a composition may depend on the nature of the composition the nature of a condition s to be treated and or a history of an individual patient. In some embodiments cells expressing a complement factor B analog of the invention are administered. These cells can be a cell line xenogeneic allogeneic or autologous.

In some embodiments e.g. comprising administration to the eye a complement factor B protein analog or vector of the invention is administered about once every week month 2 months 3 months 6 months 9 months year 18 months 2 years 30 months 3 years 5 years 10 years or as needed. In some embodiments e.g. comprising administration to the eye a molecule or vector of the invention is administered from about every 1 to 4 weeks about every 4 to 8 weeks about every 1 to 4 months about every 3 to 6 months about every 4 to 8 months about every 6 to 12 months about every 9 to 15 months about every 12 to 18 months about every 15 to 21 months about every 18 to 24 months about every 1 to 2 years about every 1.5 to 3 years about every 2 to 4 years about every 3 to 5 years about every 5 to 7 years about every 7 to 10 years or about every 10 to 20 years. It is expected that administration of a vector coding for a complement factor B protein analog would be less frequent than administration of the complement factor B protein analog. In some embodiments of the invention a pharmaceutical preparation comprises a vector encoding a complement factor B analog of the invention and the pharmaceutical preparation is administered only once to the patient.

In some embodiments e.g. comprising administration to the eye a vector coding for a complement factor B analog is administered 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 or more times to a patient in their lifetime. In some embodiments e.g. comprising administration to the eye a lentiviral vector of the invention is administered 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 or more times to a patient in their lifetime.

In some embodiments a complement factor B protein analog of the invention is administered by intravitreal injection to a human eye. In some embodiments about 15 g to about 5 mg about 15 g to about 500 g about 100 g to about 900 g about 300 g to about 700 g about 500 g to about 1 mg about 1 mg to about 5 mg about 1 mg or about 500 g of a complement factor B protein analog is administered by intravitreal injection to a human eye.

In some embodiments a complement factor B protein analog of the invention is administered by subretinal injection or intravitreal injection of a lentiviral or adeno associated viral AAV vector. In some embodiments about 5 10to about 5 10 about 5 10to about 5 10 about 5 10to about 5 10 about 1 10to about 1 10 about 3 10to about 5 10 about 2.5 10 about 5 10 about 7.5 10 or about 1 10transducing units of a lentiviral vector is administered by subretinal injection. In some embodiments about 5 10to about 1 10 about 5 10to about 7.5 10 about 7.5 10to about 1 10 about 6 10to about 9 10 about 7 10to about 8 10 about 5 10 about 6 10 about 7 10 about 8 10 about 9 10 or about 1 10transducing units of an AAV vector is administered by subretinal injection.

In some embodiments about 5 10to about 1 10 about 5 10to about 5 10 about 5 10to about 2 10 about 2 10to about 5 10 about 5 10to about 1 10 about 5 10to about 1 10 about 1 10to about 3 10 about 3 10to about 6 10 about 6 10to about 1 10 or about 1 10to about 1 10transducing units of an AAV vector is administered by intravitreal injection.

In some embodiments about 50 l to about 100 l about 50 l to about 75 l about 75 l to about 100 l about 60 l to about 90 l about 70 l to about 80 l about 50 l about 60 l about 70 l about 80 l about 90 l or about 100 l of a complement factor B protein analog or a vector encoding a complement factor B protein analog is injected subretinally. In some embodiments about 50 l to about 1 ml about 50 l to about 500 l about 500 l to about 1 ml about 250 l to about 750 l about 250 l to about 500 l about 500 l to about 750 l about 400 l to about 600 l or about 750 l to about 1 ml of a complement factor B protein analog or a vector encoding a complement factor B protein analog is injected intravitreally.

In some embodiments an anti inflammatory may be delivered in combination with a complement factor B protein analog e.g. hfB3 292S or hfB3 292S 740N vector or nucleic acid of the invention. An anti inflammatory may be delivered prior to concurrently with and or after administration of a molecule or vector of the invention. In some embodiments an anti inflammatory is administered in the same solution and or same syringe as a complement factor B protein analog nucleic acid or vector of the invention. In some embodiments a complement factor B protein analog or vector of the invention and an anti inflammatory are co administered to the eye e.g. as described herein.

Many anti inflammatory drugs are known in the art and include but are not limited to dexamethasone dexamethasone sodium metasulfobenzoate dexamethasone sodium phosphate fluorometholone bromfenac pranoprofen RESTASIS cyclosporine ophthalmic emulsion naproxen glucocorticoids ketorolac ibuprofen tolmetin non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs steroidal anti inflammatory drugs diclofenac flurbiprofen indomethacin and suprofen.

Some embodiments of the invention include administration of both a complement factor B protein analog and a vector encoding it. A complement factor B protein analog of the invention may be delivered prior to concurrently with and or after administration of a vector of the invention. In some embodiments a complement factor B protein analog of the invention is administered in the same solution and or same syringe as a vector of the invention. In some embodiments a complement factor B protein analog of the invention and a vector of the invention are co administered to the eye e.g. as described herein.

Additionally a complement factor B analog or a nucleic acid encoding it can be delivered or administered to an animal via a cell e.g. as cell therapy. For example this can be accomplished by administering or delivering a cell s expressing a complement factor B analog s . In some embodiments a complement factor B analog s is expressed from the cell via a regulatable inducible and or repressible promoter. In some embodiments encapsulated cells that express a complement factor B analog s are delivered to an animal e.g. see PCT Publication No. WO07078922 related to encapsulated cells. In some embodiments cells are administered locally e.g. in a joint intravitreal intraretinal intracranially etc. or systemically e.g. i.v. .

Cells to be administered to an animal can be autologous allogeneic or xenogeneic. In some embodiments autologous cells are manipulated ex vivo to cause them to produce a complement factor B protein analog of the invention and in some embodiments the cells are introduced back to the animal. Transferring a nucleic acid comprised of a coding region to cells ex vivo can be by any method such as electroporation microinjection cell fusion chromosome mediated gene transfer microcell mediated gene transfer spheroplast fusion lipofection microparticle bombardment calcium phosphate mediated transfection viral infection and so on. Optionally a selectable marker also can be introduced into the cells. If a selectable marker is utilized the cells can be then placed under selection e.g. to enhance expression and or to isolate those cells that express the transferred coding region see e.g. Loeffler Behr Meth. Enzymol. 217 599 618 1993 Cohen et al. Meth. Enzymol. 217 618 644 1993 and Cline Pharmac. Ther. 29 69 92 1985 .

Recombinant cells e.g. autologous or allogeneic cells transduced in vitro can be delivered to a patient by various methods known in the art. For example cells can be encapsulated prior to administration as known in the art. In some embodiments when encapsulated the cells are not autologous. In some embodiments recombinant blood cells e.g. hematopoietic stem and or progenitor cells are administered intravenously. In some embodiments eye cells and or pluripotential cells can be injected directly into the eye. The amount of cells needed depends on the desired effect the animal s state etc.

In some embodiments of the invention a gene delivery system can result in transduction and or stable integration of a gene or coding region for a complement factor B analog into a target cell. In some embodiments target cells are mammalian cells such as primate cells and human cells. In some embodiments target cells are cells of the eye such as retinal pigment epithelial cells retinal cells or pluripotential cells. Target cells can be in vitro ex vivo or in vivo. In some embodiments a target cell is a stem cell. Stem cells include but are not limited to pluripotent stem cells totipotent stem cells hematopoietic stem cells cancer stem cells and embryonic stem cells. In some embodiments pluripotential cells contemplated herein are not those for propagating a living entity from a zygote or blastomere. The instant invention also contemplates the use of a partially undifferentiated cell for implantation into the eye of a patient in need of treatment e.g. to regenerate cells of the eye.

Some embodiments of the invention provide a transgenic animal e.g. nonhuman expressing a complement factor B analog of the invention. Methods for making a transgenic animal are known in the art. In some embodiment a transgenic animal such as a mouse will also comprise a mutation deletion or disruption in the Fas gene e.g. see Macmicking et al. Cell. 81 641 650 1995 .

The invention is now described with reference to the following examples. These examples are provided for the purpose of illustration only and the invention should in no way be construed as being limited to these examples but rather should be construed to encompass any and all variations which become evident as a result of the teachings provided herein.

Whereas particular embodiments of the invention have been described herein for purposes of description it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that numerous variations of the details may be made without departing from the invention as described in the appended claims.

A plasmid was designed to include the coding sequence for human hfB3 with an IRES Neo selectable marker hfB3 IRES Neo . The plasmid was synthesized by GENEART AG Regensburg Germany plasmid a fee for service contract organization. An Nhe I restriction site was incorporated into both the 5 and 3 ends of the coding sequence. The hfB3 nucleic acid coding sequence was codon optimized for optimal expression in mammalian cells.

The gene expression plasmid pCI Promega Madison Wis. was modified. First the BGH Bovine Growth Hormone polyA was removed from pCI and replaced with a synthetic polyA. Next the hfB3 coding sequence with a selectable marker hfB3 IRES Neo was cut out by Nhe I from a plasmid and cloned into the Sal I site of the modified pCI as a blunt end ligation to create an hfB3 expression construct. The plasmid was sequenced in its entirety to confirm the sequence integrity of the construct SEQ ID NO 5 .

A further modification was introduced to hfB3 protein. Human wild type factor B protein and hfB3 protein have 23 cysteine amino acids C suggesting there is at least one unpaired free cysteine present in the protein. Disulfide bond mapping suggested the free C in biologically active hfB3 is located at the amino acid 292. The C at 292 is highly conserved in factor B protein among different species Table 1 above . In this Example this C at 292 is changed to serine S generating hfB3 292S.

To create the hfB3 292S expression construct site specific mutation was introduced into the hfB3 expression construct SEQ ID NO 5 .

The hfB3 expression construct was used as the template to make the site mutation changing the C at position 292 to S using Stratagene s Site Directed Mutagenesis Kit according to the manufacture s instructions creating the hfB3 292S expression construct. Two primers were used Forward primer 5 CACCGGCGCCAAGAAGCTGGTCAACCTGATC 3 SEQ ID NO 6 and Reverse primer 5 GATCAGGTTGACCAGCTTCTTGGCGCCGGTG 3 SEQ ID NO 7 . The underlined nucleotides indicate the mutated amino acid from C to S. The hfB3 292S expression cassette includes from 5 to 3 a CMV promoter a chimeric intron a codon optimized coding sequence for hfB3 292S an IRES Neo selectable marker and a synthetic polyA . The entire construct was sequenced to confirm the mutation and the integrity of the construct SEQ ID NO 8 . The expected amino acid sequence for hfB3 292S is shown in SEQ ID NO 2.

Stable cell lines expressing hfB3 or hfB3 292S protein were generated by transfecting 293 FreeStyle cells Invitrogen Cat. No. R79007 with the hfB3 or hfB3 292S expression construct. Transfection of plasmid DNA into the 293 FreeStyle cells was mediated by PEI Polyethylenimine Sigma Cat. No. 23966 based transfection. A PEI solution was prepared in sterile water at a final concentration of 1 mg mL. The pH was adjusted to 7.0 with 5 N HCl. The solution was sterilized using a 0.22 m filter. Aliquots of the PEI were stored frozen at 80 C. until use.

One day prior to transfection the cells were seeded at 1 10cells mL in serum free 293F Expression Medium Invitrogen Cat. No. 12338 018 .

The next day the cells were washed with basal RPMI1640 medium Invitrogen Cat. No. 22400 089 supplemented only with HT Supplement Cat. No. 11067 030 Invitrogen resuspended in the same medium at 2 10cells mL and dispensed into a new 6 well plate with 1 mL in each well.

Stock solutions of DNA and PEI were prepared in sterile 150 mM NaCl as follows 2.5 g hfB3 or hfB3 292S expression construct DNA in 2.5 L was diluted into 47.5 L of 150 mM NaCl and mixed with pipetting DNA solution . Ten microliters 10 L of PEI solution was diluted into 40 L of 150 mM NaCl followed by a gentle vortex PEI solution . The DNA and PEI solutions were incubated at room temperature for 5 minutes. The PEI solution was then added to the DNA solution and the mixture was allowed to incubate at room temperature for an additional 10 minutes and then the DNA PEI mixture was added to the cells in the 6 well plate and the cells were incubated with agitation 200 RPM for 5 hours at 37 C. in an incubator with 8 COand 85 humidity. After 5 hours 1.1 mL of complete 293F Expression Medium no additives was added to each of the wells and the incubation was continued for 72 hours.

The cells were then harvested washed once with the 293F Expression Medium and placed into fresh 293F Expression Medium containing 300 g mL G418 Teknova . As a negative control an equal number of un transfected 293F naive cells were cultured in the same G418 containing medium. The cells were under G418 selection for approximately 3 weeks. By which time the un transfected cells in the G418 containing medium were dead. The transfected cells were passed over a FICOL gradient Sigma to remove the dead or dying cells from the G418 resistant live population. The G418 resistant live population was further expanded over a period of about 2 weeks during which the cells were spun down every 2 3 days and resuspended in fresh 293F Expression Medium containing 300 g mL G418.

The G418 resistant hfB3 or hfB3 292S producing cells were seeded at a density of 2 10cells mL in the 293F Expression Medium either in 6 well plates with 2 mL culture in each well in 500 mL spinner flasks with 100 mL culture in each flask or in 3 000 mL spinner flasks with 1 000 mL culture in each flask. The cells were incubated for 72 hours with shaking at 100 rpm on an orbital shaker in a 37 C. incubator with 8 COand 80 humidity.

The cell culture medium supernatant containing hfB3 protein or hfB3 292S protein was then harvested and centrifuged at 2 000 rpm for 10 minutes to clear cell debris after which the culture medium was filtered through a 0.22 m filter.

An Electrochemiluminescent assay ECL was developed for quantitation of hfB3 and hfB3 292S with human wild type factor B as standard. The assay was a sandwich immunoassay based on BioVeris s ECL Technology. Briefly the ECL assay is formatted as a 96 well plate sandwich one step and no wash assay. The quality control samples purified factor B from human plasma Quidel Cat. No. A408 and test samples were incubated with a master mix reagent containing a biotinylated anti hfB monoclonal antibody anti human factor B monoclonal antibody R D Systems Cat. No. MAB2739 a BV TAG plus labeled anti hfB polyclonal antibody anti human factor B polyclonal antibody R D Systems Cat. No. AF2739 and streptavidin coated paramagnetic beads. The mixture was incubated for 150 minutes. Following the incubation a stop solution Borate Buffer 250 mM pH9.2 containing 500 mM sodium chloride and 1.6 mg mL BSA was added and then the plate was read on M1MR Analyzer. The estimated dynamic range for the assay was 9.0 to 950 ng mL.

Polyacrylamide electrophoresis of hfB3 protein and hfB3 292S protein under denturing but non reducing conditions SDS PAGE was performed by mixing samples of hfB3 protein or hfB3 292S protein with non reducing protein sample buffer Pierce . Human factor B protein purified from plasma 100 ng per sample Quidel was used as a positive control. Each gel also contained a well with pre stained protein molecular weight markers 15 L lane Invitrogen . The samples and the markers were heated at 95 C. for 5 minutes in non reducing protein sample buffer. The samples were loaded onto a 7.5 Tris HCL Precast mini gel Bio Rad . The gel was run 10 SDS Tris Glycine Running Buffer Bio Rad at 75 V for 15 minutes or until the dye front passed through the stacking gel into the resolving gel. Once the dye front entered the resolving gel the voltage was increased to 100 V and electrophoresis continued until the dye front ran off the gel.

Western blot analysis was performed by washing and equilibrating the gel in transfer buffer 10 Tris Glycine Transfer Buffer Bio Rad for 20 minutes while rocking gently. A nitrocellulose membrane Bio Rad and blotting paper were also equilibrated in the transfer buffer. Proteins separated by SDS PAGE were transferred electrophoretically onto a nitrocellulose using a Trans Blot Semi Dry Transfer Cell Bio Rad 20V for 45 minutes . Once the transfer was complete the membrane was blocked with a 1 casein solution Vector Laboratories for at least an hour at room temperature with gentle agitation on a rocker. The membrane was probed with a primary antibody monoclonal antibody against human factor B R D Systems Cat. No. MAB2739 diluted to 1 10 000 in 1 casein solution at room temperature for 1 hour with gentle agitation and washed in 10 mL of 1 casein solution 3 times for 5 minutes each at room temperature with gentle agitation on a rocker. The membrane was incubated with a biotinylated goat anti mouse IgG secondary antibody R D Systems Cat. No. BAF007 diluted to 1 20 000 in 1 casein solution for 1 hour at room temperature with gentle agitation on a rocker and washed in 10 mL of 1 casein solution 3 times for 5 minutes each at room temperature with gentle agitation. The membrane was incubated in Vectastain ABC AmP reagent Vector Laboratories in 20 mL of 1 casein solution for 45 minutes containing 40 L of Reagent A and 40 L of Reagent B. The membrane was washed in 10 mL of 1 casein solution 3 times for 5 minutes each at room temperature with gentle agitation.

To acquire the chemiluminescent signal from the Western blots the membranes were equilibrated in 20 mL of 0.1 M Tris pH 9.5 for 5 minutes without agitation. Excess buffer was removed from the membrane by holding the membrane vertically and touching the edge of the membrane to a Kimwipe. The target side of the membrane was placed facing up in a new container. Duolox Substrate 7 mL Vector Laboratories was placed directly onto the target side of the membrane which was incubated for 5 minutes in the dark. Excess Duolox was removed from the membrane by holding the membrane vertically and touching the edge of the membrane to a Kimwipe. The membrane was washed by submerging it in 20 mL of 0.1 M Tris pH 9.5 for 5 minutes with agitation in the dark. Excess buffer was removed from the membrane by holding the membrane vertically and touching the edge of the membrane to a Kimwipe. The membrane was placed in a folded plastic wrap sheet and exposed to Kodak BioMax MS X ray film in a film cassette for 1 to 5 minutes. The film was placed in Kodak Developer solution dilute 26 mL of the Developer solution into 92 mL of ddHO for 1 minute. The film was removed from the Developer solution and placed in Kodak Fixer solution dilute 26 mL of the Fixer solution into 92 mL of ddHO for 1 minute. Finally the film was rinsed with tap water and allowed to dry at room temperature.

As shown in G418 resistant hfB3 and hfB3 292S producing cells produced in the cell culture medium hfB3 protein Lane 3 and hfB3 292S protein Lane 4 at the appropriate size approximately 100 KDa . These proteins migrated at approximately the same rate as the wild type human factor B purified from human plasma Lane 2 . No visible band was detected in the un transfected cell culture medium negative control indicating the specificity of the monoclonal anti human factor B antibody Lane 1 . Interestingly presumed aggregates at approximately 200 260 KDa were readily detected in hfB3 samples lane 3 while no aggregates were detected in the hfB3 292S samples lane 4 produced under the same experimental conditions. Aggregates could be caused by misfolded populations of hfB3 in the cell culture medium. When proteins are misfolded they expose hydrophobic regions that are prone to the formation of aggregates through hydrophobic hydrophobic interactions. These data suggest that in the hfB3 292S protein preparation misfolding was either eliminated or significantly reduced as compared to hfB3 protein.

Human alternative complement pathway activity can be measured using a hemolytic assay as described in this Example.

One milliliter 1 mL of rabbit erythrocytes rRBCs Lampire Biological Laboratory Cat. No. 7246408 suspension was washed with freshly made cold Mg EGTA buffer. The erythrocytes were transferred to a 50 mL conical centrifuge tube 30 mL of the Mg EGTA buffer was added and the cells were mixed gently. The rRBCs were pelleted in a Beckman Allegra 6KR centrifuge at 1 200 rpm at 4 C. without brake for 5 minutes and resuspended in the Mg EGTA buffer. This wash step was repeated twice. The rRBCs were resuspended in 2 mL of ice cold Mg EGTA buffer and a cell count was obtained using a hemocytometer.

The hemolytic activity reaction mixture was set up in V bottom shaped 96 well plates placed on ice. To determine if hfB3 protein or hfB3 292S protein can compete with the wild type human factor B protein and inhibit its hemolytic activity a competition assay was set up in a total volume of 40 L including 500 ng of wild type human factor B increasing amounts of hfB3 protein or hfB3 292S protein and GVB buffer Sigma Cat. No. G6415 . Fifty microliters 50 L of factor B depleted human serum diluted 25 fold with Mg EGTA buffer was added to each well followed by 10 L of Mg EGTA washed 5 10rRBCs. After adding the rRBCs each sample was gently mixed in the 96 well plate using a multi channel pipette.

The 96 well plate was placed in a glass tray with a layer of 37 C. water submerging the bottom of the plate. The tray was then placed in a 37 C. water bath with orbital shaking at 110 rpm for 40 minutes. After incubation the plate was placed on ice 150 L of ice cold 0.9 saline was added to each well and each reaction gently mixed by pipetting to stop the reaction. The 96 well plate was centrifuged at 2 000 rpm in an Eppendorf 5810R centrifuge for 5 minutes min at 4 C. without brake to pellet the rRBC at the bottom of the plate. The supernatant 180 L was removed from each well without disturbing the pellet and transferred to the corresponding well of a new 96 well plate. The absorbance of each sample was measured at 405 nm in a microplate reader.

The biological activity of hfB3 protein and hfB3 292S protein was examined by measuring the alternative complement pathway mediated hemolysis of rRBCs. The assay described in Example 7 was used to test the potency of hfB3 protein or hfB3 292S protein in inhibiting the human alternative complement pathway. Each reaction was performed in triplicate. As shown in the raw cell culture medium from hfB3 292S protein and hfB3 protein producing cells efficiently inhibited reduced the alternative complement pathway activity in a dose dependent manner. Although not wishing to be bound by theory hfB3 and hfB3 292S protein may be inhibiting alternative complement pathway activity by competing against the wild type factor B protein and or by sequestering C3b and or complement factor D.

Cell culture medium from a human 293 FreeStyle cell line transfected and stably expressing and secreting hfB3 protein or hfB3 292S protein was used as the starting material for purification of hfB3 protein or hfB3 292S protein. Soluble secreted hfB3 or hfB3 292S protein was purified from the cell culture supernatant by a combination of anion exchange AEX hydrophobic interaction HIC and size exclusion chromatography SEC for capturing intermediate purification and polishing steps respectively using a GE AKTA Purifier. Two purification schemes are described below. These two schemes differ in that one uses one HIC chromatography step and the other uses two HIC chromatography steps.

The cell culture supernatant containing hfB3 protein was diluted with distilled water at 4 1 volume ratio of culture supernatant water to lower the conductivity to 8 Milli Siemens per centimeter mS cm and adjusted to pH 7.5 with 50 mM phosphate buffer. This material was loaded directly onto a pre packed ion exchange column POROS HQ 50 ABI on an AKTA purifier using a P 960 pump at a flow rate of 30 mL per minute. The column was previously equilibrated with buffer A 50 mM phosphate buffer PB pH7.5 conductivity 8 mS cm at a linear flow rate of 600 mL hr 1 Column Volume min CV min . The effluent was monitored by UV detection at 280 nm After washing away unbound material retained material was eluted with a non linear gradient of buffer A and buffer B 50 mM PB and 1 M NaCl pH 7.5 to sequentially raise the conductivity of the mobile phase stepwise from 8 mS cm 0 of buffer B for 2 CV to 33 mS cm 25 of buffer B for 8 CV and finally to 105 mS cm 100 of buffer B for 5 CV .

To further facilitate removal of host protein contaminants an intermediate hydrophobic interaction HIC chromatography step was introduced which purifies and separates proteins based on differences in their surface hydrophobicity. The major fractions from the AEX chromatography step containing hfB3 protein were pooled and adjusted to contain approximately 1.4 M ammonium sulfate and 47 mM phosphate buffer pH 7.5 conductivity 216 mS cm 1.0 M ammonium sulfate and 33.7 mM phosphate buffer pH 7.5 conductivity 169 mS cm for hfB3 292S by adding buffer C 1.5 M ammonium sulfate and 50 mM phosphate buffer pH 7.5 to the sample at approximately 30 1 volume ratio of the ammonium sulfate phosphate buffer vs. the sample. The pooled sample was filtered through a 0.2 m filter and applied to a hydrophobic interaction column HiTrap Phenyl HP GE Healthcare pre equilibrated with 1.5 M ammonium sulfate and 50 mM Phosphate buffer pH 7.5 buffer C 1.0 M ammonium sulfate and 33.7 mM phosphate buffer for hfB 292S at the flow rate of 300 mL hr 1 CV min . The retained material was eluted by decreasing the ammonium sulfate concentration in a non linear fashion.

Alternatively the intermediate HIC chromatography step can be replaced with a two steps HIC chromatography e.g. to make the purification process easier to scale up. In this two step HIC purification process the majority of host cell proteins were separated from fB3 or fB3 292S by the first step HIC chromatography HIC negative selection by binding to HIC column HiTrap Phenyl HP GE Healthcare at low salt condition 0.75 M ammonium sulfate and 25 mM phosphate buffer pH 7.5 for fB3 and 0.6 M ammonium sulfate and 20 mM phosphate buffer pH 7.5 conductivity 100 mS cm for hfB3 292S . The flow thru fraction from the HIC negative selection step containing hfB3 or fB3 292S protein was then re adjusted to contain approximately 1.5 M ammonium sulfate and 50 mM phosphate buffer pH 7.5 conductivity 216 mS cm for fB3 or 1.0 M ammonium sulfate and 33.7 mM phosphate buffer pH 7.5 conductivity 169 mS cm for hfB3 292S. For the second step HIC chromatography the sample was filtered through a 0.2 m filter and applied to a hydrophobic interaction column HiTrap Phenyl HP GE Healthcare pre equilibrated with 1.5 M ammonium sulfate and 50 mM Phosphate buffer pH 7.5 for fB3 and 1.0 M ammonium sulfate and 33.7 mM phosphate buffer for hfB 292S at the flow rate of 300 mL hr 1 CV min The retained material was eluted by decreasing the ammonium sulfate concentration in a non linear fashion to further separate fB3 or fB3 292S protein from the remaining host cell proteins.

The fractions containing biologically active hfB3 protein from the HIC chromatography step were pooled and concentrated with a centrifugal filter device Millipore Amicon Ultra Cat. No. 901024 10 000 MW Cut off . The concentrated sample was subjected to size exclusion chromatography on a Sephacryl S300 26 60 HR column maximum loading volume 3 of CV 10 mL equilibrated in PBS buffer 4 mM phosphate 150 mM NaCl pH 7.4 GIBCO . The elution of hfB3 protein was performed at a constant linear flow rate of 60 cm hr using PBS monitoring the effluent by UV detection at 280 nm. The purified hfB3 protein was stored at 80 C. in aliquots.

This procedure permitted almost complete separation of hfB3 protein from other contaminants. The purity of hfB3 protein after the three step chromatography process was quite high as indicated by the fact that SDS PAGE silver staining analysis of 0.2 g of purified hfB3 protein only produced a single sharp band left panel . When hfB3 protein purified by the above three step chromatography process was subjected to a competition assay against human wild type factor B in a hemolytic assay it suppressed hemolytic activity of the human alternative complement pathway demonstrating that the purified hfB3 protein was biologically active right panel . Surprisingly two populations of hfB3 were detected by HIC one was biologically active designated as Peak I or active population and the other had a much reduced biological activity designated as Peak II or less active population . These two forms were readily detected by reverse phase HPLC RP HPLC in the un processed cell culture medium of stable hfB3 protein producing cells .

The raw hfB3 292S protein cell culture medium containing a complement factor B analog with the free cysteine substituted with serine at the position 292 was subjected to RP HPLC analysis with raw na ve 293 FreeStyle cell culture medium as a negative control and raw hfB3 protein cell culture medium as a positive control . The hfB3 292S protein cell culture medium did not produce any detectable Peak II population whereas analysis of hfB3 protein cell culture medium showed that 35 of hfB3 was in the less active Peak II population. B. 

hfB4 protein was designed to change the aspartic acid at amino acid 740 in hfB3 to an asparagine. This change is thought to attenuate or inhibit the function of the serine protease function of this complement factor B protein analog.

To create the hfB4 expression construct site specific mutation was introduced into the hfB3 expression construct.

The hfB3 expression construct SEQ ID NO 5 described in Example 1 was used as a template to make a mutation changing the aspartic acid D at position 740 in SEQ ID NO 4 to asparagine N using Stratagene s Site Directed Mutagenesis Kit Stratagene Santa Clara Calif. according to the manufacture s instructions creating the hfB4 expression construct. Two primers were used Forward primer 5 GTCCCCGCCCACGCCCGGTTCCACATCAACCTGTTCC 3 SEQ ID NO 15 and Reverse primer 5 GGAACAGGTTGATGTGGAACCGGGCGTGGGCGGGGAC 3 SEQ ID NO 16 . The underlined nucleotides indicate the nucleotide change that results in the amino acid change from D to N. This hfB4 expression construct includes from 5 to 3 a CMV promoter a chimeric intron a codon optimized coding sequence for hfB4 an IRES Neo selectable marker and a synthetic polyA. The entire construct was sequenced to confirm the mutation and the integrity of the construct. The expected amino acid sequence for hfB4 is shown in SEQ ID NO 17. The only difference between the amino acid sequence of hfB3 and hfB4 is the D740N change.

A stable cell line that expresses hfB4 protein was generated by PEI mediated transfection and drug selection of 293 cells as described in Example 3. The concentration of hfB4 protein in the cell culture medium of the selected cell population was measured by ECL as described in Example 5.

Biological activity of hfB4 protein purified as described in Example 9 using the one HIC chromatography step method was examined by hemolytic activity assay as described in Example 7. Table 2 shows the inhibition of human alternative complement pathway hemolytic activity by cell culture medium containing hfB4 protein. Relative hemolytic activity was scored by hemoglobin released after hemolysis of rRBC by human alternative complement pathway activity. As shown in Table 2 hfB4 protein efficiently inhibited the alternative complement pathway activity.

hfB3 Fc is a fusion protein between hfB3 and an IgG Fc. Specifically the full length of the hfB3 protein was fused with a human IgG4 Fc.

To create an hfB3 Fc expression construct a PCR product was amplified from the hfB3 expression construct SEQ ID NO 5 described in Example 1 using two primers the forward primer 5 GCGCACCGGTGCTAGCGAATTCGGCGACAAGAAGGGCAGCTGCGA 3 SEQ ID NO 19 and the reverse primer 5 GCGCAGATCTCAGGAAGCCCAGGTCCTCAT 3 SEQ ID NO 20 . The 377 bp PCR product containing the coding region for the C terminus of hfB3 Fc was then digested with Age I and Bgl II and ligated into pFUSE hIgG4Fc Invivogen Cat. Code pfuse hg4fc1 which was previously digested with Age I and Bgl II creating the plasmid phfB3Cterm Fc. The hfB3 expression construct SEQ ID NO 5 described in Example 1 was digested with EcoR I and EcoR V. The EcoR I EcoR V fragment containing the N terminus of hfB3 was ligated into phfB3Cterm Fc which was previously digested with EcoR I and EcoR V creating phfB3 Fc. The phfB3 Fc plasmid was digested with Nhe I and the fragment containing the hfB3 and Fc coding sequences was ligated into the modified pCI construct with IRES Neo described in Example 1 creating the hfB3 Fc expression construct SEQ ID NO 18 . This hfB3 Fc expression construct includes from 5 to 3 a CMV promoter a chimeric intron a coding sequence for hfB3 Fc an IRES Neo selectable marker and a synthetic polyA. The entire construct was sequenced to confirm the integrity of the construct SEQ ID NO 18 . SEQ ID NO 21 is the amino acid sequence of the hfB3 Fc protein.

A stable cell line that expresses hfB3 Fc protein was generated by PEI mediated transfection and drug selection of 293 cells as described in Example 3. The drug selected cells were cultured at 2 10cells mL for 72 hours. Then hfB3 Fc protein expression was examined by subjecting 2 l of the cell culture supernatant to a non reducing SDS PAGE and Western blot analysis. As shown in two bands of hfB3 Fc protein were detected by a goat anti factor B specific antibody R D Systems Cat. No. AF2739 . The molecular weight markers in KDa are indicated on the left. Not wishing to be bound by theory these two bands of hfB3 Fc protein might represent monomers and dimers of the protein. Biological activity of hfB3 Fc protein in cell culture supernatant was examined by a hemolytic activity assay as described in Example 7. As shown in Table 3 hfB3 Fc protein inhibited the alternative complement pathway activity.

hfB3 292S protein was purified as described in Example 9 using the one HIC chromatography step method. Purified hfB3 292S protein in PBS removed from a 80 C. freezer and thawed at room temperature was counted as the first freeze and thaw cycle. After this thaw the hfB3 292S protein concentration was adjusted to 2 mg mL with PBS and one aliquot of hfB3 292S was sampled and saved on ice as the first freeze and thaw sample. The tube of hfB3 292S protein was then frozen by sitting the tube in a methanol dry ice bath for 20 minutes and then thawing at room temperature till completely thawed the second freeze and thaw cycle . One aliquot of the sample was sampled and set aside before repeating the next freeze and thaw cycle. The biological activity of samples from each cycle of freeze and thaw total 7 times were analyzed by measuring their ability to compete with wild type human factor B in the alternative complement pathway mediated hemolytic assay as described in Example 7. Each reaction contained a fixed amount of wild type human factor B 0.5 g with increasing amounts of hfB3 292S. The results in Table 4 represent the percentage of inhibition in the hemolytic assay.

These results demonstrate that hfB3 292S protein can still effectively inhibit alternative pathway mediated hemolysis even after seven cycles of freeze and thaw Table 4 . A similar level of hemolysis inhibition was observed through out all samples showing that repeated freeze and thaw up to 7 times did not affect the hfB3 292S protein s ability to inhibit complement mediated hemolysis.

hfB3 and hfB3 292S proteins were purified as described in Example 9 using the one HIC chromatography step method. Purified hfB3 and hfB3 292S protein both in PBS were removed from 80 C. Protein concentration was re adjusted to 2 mg mL in PBS pH 7.4 . hfB3 and hfB3 292S proteins were equally aliquoted into three 0.6 mL eppendorf tubes 40 L per tube and then stored at 4 C. 80 C. and 37 C. conditions for 7 days. The biological activity ability to inhibit complement mediated hemolysis of each of the stored samples was analyzed by measuring their ability to inhibit alternative complement pathway mediated hemolysis as described in Example 7. The results of this hemolytic assay showed that storage at 4 C. or 80 C. over 7 days did not affect the ability of either hfB3 or hfB3 292S to inhibit alternative complement pathway mediated hemolysis. However hfB3 protein stored at 37 C. for 7 days lost essentially all of its biological activity in all four samples tested. Remarkably hfB3 292S stored at 37 C. for 7 days preserved its biological activity well and still could compete with wild type human factor B effectively Table 5 . The results in the Table 5 represent the percentage of inhibition of human alternative complement activity with standard deviation by either hfB3 or hfB3 292S. These results indicated that hfB3 292S protein has greater thermostability than hfB3 protein at 37 C.

Protein melting temperature Tm is a measure of the thermal stability of a protein and changes in the amino acid sequence of a protein may affect among other things the protein s thermal stability. Human factor B protein hfB contains twenty three cysteine residues twenty two of which occur as disulfide bond pairs cystine and one of which C292 is present in an un paired free sulfhydrile form.

The melting temperature profiles of hfB3 protein K258A R259A K260A D279G N285D and hfB3 292S protein the single unpaired cysteine residue of hfB3 protein was modified to serine were compared to that of hfB protein by incubating each protein in the presence of 1 anilinonaphthalene 8 sulfonic acid ANS and measuring the increase in fluorescence of ANS at 460 nm ANS binds to protein hydrophobic regions Stryer J. Molecular Biology 1965 13 482 495 and has been used to investigate the effect of temperature on the surface hydrophobicity of hfB protein Takada et. al. Complement 1985 2 193 203 . Samples containing hfB protein 35 hfB3 protein 50 g and hfB3 292S protein 39 g were prepared in 100 L of PBS 137 mM NaCl 2.7 mM KCl 10 mM phosphate pH 7.4 buffer containing 10 mM ANS Invitrogen Catalog A 47 . Samples of each protein in triplicate were incubated in closed polypropylene tubes for thirty minutes at 21 C. 30 C. 37 C. 44 C. 47 C. 50 C. 55 C. 60 C. and 65 C. The samples were transferred to a clear 96 well microplate Costar Catalog 3635 and the fluorescence was measured in a Perceptive Biosystems Cytofluor 4000 microplate spectrofluorometer excitation 60 40 nm emission 460 40 nm . The results were analyzed using a non linear 4PL curve fit. The Tm values average of the results from two experiments for wild type hfB protein hfB3 protein and hfB3 292S protein were determined to be 46.4 C. 45.1 C. and 47.0 C. respectively. The five amino acid changes made in hfB3 protein with respect to wild type hfB protein K258A R259A K260A D279G N285D resulted in a Tm 1.3 C. indicating that hfB3 protein was less thermally stable compared to a corresponding wild type hfB protein. However the Tm of hfB3 292S protein 47.0 C. resulted in a Tm 1.9 C. with respect to hfB3 protein and indicated that hfB3 292S protein was at least as thermally stable as wild type hfB protein 46.4 C. .

Therefore contrary to the results of Culajay et. al. Biochemistry 2000 39 7153 7158 which showed that substitution of a cysteine residue with serine in human fibroblast growth factor FGF 1 protein C83S or C117S decreased the Tm by 13 C. and 2 C. respectively the serine substitution of hfB3 at amino acid C292 resulted in hfB3 292S being more thermal stable than hfB3.

Collagen antibody induced arthritis CAIA is an aggressive mouse model for rheumatoid arthritis Terato K et al. J. Immunol. 1992 148 7 2103 8 Terato K et al. Autoimmunity 1995 22 3 137 47 . In this model a collagen antibody cocktail containing 4 monoclonal antibodies against collagen Chondrex Inc. Catalogue Number 10010 with LPS boost was used to induce arthritis in six week old DBA 1J male wild type mice Jackson Laboratory .

Forty mice were divided into three groups. Group 1 had 10 mice serving as a vehicle control group where 100 L PBS phosphate buffered saline pH 7.4 was injected into the tail vein on day 0 a booster injection of 25 g LPS List Biological Lab Campbell Calif. Catalogue Number 421 per mouse was administrated intraperitoneal LPS was in PBS at a concentration 500 g mL on day 3 and 100 L of PBS via the tail vein again on days 3 5 7 and 9. Group 2 had 15 mice that were injected with the collagen antibody cocktail 0.25 mg in 100 L PBS per mouse via tail vein on day 0 received a booster injection of 25 g LPS on day 3 and were administered 100 L PBS via the tail vein on days 3 5 7 and 9. Group 3 had 15 mice that were injected with 0.25 mg of the collagen antibody cocktail and 1 mg of hfB3 292S protein both together in 100 L PBS per mouse via the tail vein on day 0 administered a booster injection of 25 g LPS on day 3 and administered 1 mg of hfB3 292S protein in 100 L PBS via tail vein on days 3 5 7 and 9.

Mice were examined every day. Each mouse weight was recorded when joint measurement took place. Forepaws and hind limb joints were measured using calipers for both width and thickness on days 1 4 6 9 and 11. The measuring sequence was left front limb left hind limb right hind limb and right front limb. On day 11 all animals were sacrificed and all the limbs left front limb right front limb left hind limb and right hind limb were collected and stored in individually labeled plastic cassettes. Each cassette was placed in a histology container box containing 10 neutral buffered formalin solution.

These mouse limbs were subjected to paraffin sectioning and H E staining to examine the pathogenesis in the joints. Specifically following fixation each limb from each mouse was transferred to a plastic cassette separately. The limbs were rinsed with running water in a beaker for 30 minutes min at room temperature RT to remove fixative solution. Then each cassette was transferred to a beaker containing decalcified solution Thermo Scientific Catalogue number 8340 by immersion of the cassette into the solution. Front limbs were decalcified for 8 hours and hind limbs were decalcified for 9 hours. After 8 hours or 9 hours the limbs were again rinsed with running water for 30 min at RT to remove decalcified solution. After decalcification limbs were stored in 70 ethanol overnight O N for the next dehydration step. Limbs were dehydrated by sequentially immersing into 75 ethanol made from 100 ethanol for two times 85 ethanol for two times 95 ethanol for two times and 100 ethanol for two times each time for 15 min at RT with shaking. Next the limbs were immersed in a 1 1 mixture of 100 ethanol and cedar wood oil Fisher Catalogue Number 040 1 for 15 min at RT with shaking and repeated two more times for a total of three times. The limbs were then immersed in 100 cedar wood oil and incubated at 40 C. for 5 hrs. Following the 5 hour incubation limbs were immersed in a 1 1 mixture of cedar wood oil and methyl salicylate ACROS Catalogue number 119 36 8 for 60 min at RT. The limbs were then immersed in another 1 1 mixture of cedar wood oil and methyl salicylate O N at RT. Following the O N incubation limbs were immersed in 100 methyl salicylate for 40 min at RT repeated one more time a total of two times . Finally limbs were embedded in paraffin that was prepared by incubation at 60 C. for 7 hrs.

Paraffin sections of the mouse limbs were prepared using a microtome and cut to a 7 m thickness. The sections were incubated on a 40 C. water bath and transferred to a Superfrost Plus microscope slide. The slides were dried O N at RT and further dried by incubation O N on a slide warmer. The slides were kept at RT until staining.

Mounted paraffin sections of the mouse limb were subjected to H E staining. The sections were de paraffinized and rehydrated by immersion into xylene for 3 min repeated 2 times for a total of 3 times. The excess xylene was then blotted and sections were immersed in 100 ethanol for 3 min for a total of 3 times then 95 ethanol for 3 min once 80 ethanol for 3 min once and deionized water for 5 min once. All incubations were at RT. For the hematoxylin staining slides were immersed in hematoxylin for 4 min one time and rinsed with deionized water. The slides were immersed in tap water for 5 min one time to allow the stain to develop. The slides were dipped quickly 8 12 times into acid ethanol 200 ml 70 ethanol plus 150 L concentrated HCL to destain the sections. The slides were then rinsed twice for 1 min in tap water and then once for 2 min in deionized water. The excess water was blotted from the slides prior to eosin staining.

For the eosin staining slides were immersed in eosin once for 20 seconds. Slides were then dehydrated by immersion into 95 ethanol 3 times for 5 min Slides were incubated in 100 ethanol 3 times for 5 min. The excess ethanol was blotted and the slides were incubated in xylene three times for 15 min Coverslips were adhered to the slides using the xylene based Permount EMS Catalogue number 17986 01 by placing a drop of Permount on the slide using a glass rod being careful not to form bubbles. The coverslip was then angled onto the slide and dropped gently onto the slide. The Permount was allowed to spread beneath the coverslip covering the entire section. The slides were dried O N at RT in a chemical hood.

As shown in the group injected with collagen antibody cocktail in the absence of hfB3 292S Group 2 induced severe front paw swelling. Mice injected with the antibody cocktail but were treated with hfB3 292S protein Group 3 showed a 65 reduction in the size of the paw p

As shown in the mice in Group 1 appeared to have normal joints no detectable inflammatory cell infiltration into the joint and the cartilage and bones appeared normal top panel . The mice in Group 2 had severe inflammation in the joints inflammatory cell infiltration pannus formation cartilage damage and bone erosion middle panel . The mice in Group 3 treated with hfB3 292S had normal joint structure no inflammatory cell infiltration no cartilage or bone erosion or damage bottom panel .

These data demonstrated that hfB3 292S was significantly efficacious in preventing joint inflammation and damage in this CAIA mouse model demonstrating the therapeutic utility of hfB3 292S protein for rheumatoid arthritis.

A stable cell line that expresses hfB3 292S Fc protein SEQ ID NO 22 was generated by PEI mediated transfection and drug selection of 293 cells as described in Example 3. The drug selected cells were cultured at 2 10cells mL for 72 hours. Then hfB3 292S Fc protein expression was examined by subjecting 2 L of the cell culture supernatant to a non reducing SDS PAGE and Western blot analysis. Two bands of hfB3 292S Fc protein were detected by a goat anti factor B specific antibody. Data not shown. Not wishing to be bound by theory these two bands of hfB3 292S Fc protein might represent monomers and dimers of the protein.

hfB3 292S Fc was purified with a Protein A column. Biological activity of purified hfB3 292S Fc protein was examined by a hemolytic activity assay as described in Example 7. As shown in Table 6 hfB3 292S Fc protein inhibited the alternative complement pathway activity in a dose dependent manner.

A gene expression construct was made that expressed a truncated form of hfB3 292S with the C terminal 284 amino acids the serine protease domain being deleted. The molecule is designated as hfB3 292SN480 which is made up of the N terminal 480 amino acids of hfB3 292S amino acids 1 480 of SEQ ID NO 2 or amino acids 26 480 of SEQ ID NO 2 after cleavage of the secretion peptide . The DNA sequence of the expression construct for hfB3 292SN480 is shown in SEQ ID NO 24 with nucleotides 1064 2509 being the coding sequence for hfB3 292SN480. The expression construct was transfected into 293 FreeStyle cells and selected with G418 as described previously in Example 3. The G418 resistant non clonal cell culture medium was subjected to Western blot analysis for hfB3 292SN480 expression using full length hfB3 292S as a control left lane . As shown in the Western blot analysis with a monoclonal antibody specifically for hfB3 292S detected a band approximately 55 KDa from the cell culture medium of hfB3 292SN480 cell line right lane suggesting that even with a 280 amino acid deletion from the C terminus of hfB3 292S the N terminal 480 amino acids can be expressed at an appropriate size.

An alternative complement activity assay was performed as described previously to determine if hfB3 292SN480 can inhibit alternative complement activity. As shown in the cell culture supernatant from cells expressing hfB3 292SN480 inhibited the alternative complement activity in a dose dependent manner. This demonstrates that fragments of hfB3 292S can still retain the ability to inhibit complement activity and therefore can be utilized the same as described herein for hfB3 292S SEQ ID NO 2 

A gene expression construct encoding a full length hfB3 292S fused to a human IgG4 Fc was engineered. hfB3 292S is a monomer when it is produced in mammalian cells such as human cells as described previously e.g. see described in Example 6 which shows hfB3 292S was detected as one band at approximately MW 100 KDa under non reducing conditions suggesting hfB3 292S is a monomer. Two cysteines in the hinge region of the human IgG4 Fc were mutated to ensure the fusion protein would be monomer and retain hfB3 292S s biological property for inhibiting complement activity. The two cysteines were mutated by substituting them each with a serine. This fusion protein of hfB3 292S and the mutated IgG4 Fc was designated hfB3 292S Fc mono. The DNA sequence for this fusion protein expression construct is shown in SEQ ID NO 26. The corresponding amino acid sequence for hfB3 292S Fc mono is shown in SEQ ID NO 25 with amino acids 1 764 being the hfB3 292S region and amino acids 765 1003 being the human IgG4 Fc region with amino acids 782 and 785 being serine amino acids that were substituted for cysteine residues found in a native human IgG4 Fc.

The hfB3 292S Fc mono gene expression construct SEQ ID NO 26 was transfected into human 293 FreeStyle cells. The cells were then subjected to G418 selection. The culture medium from the drug resistant cells was subjected to Western blot analysis for the fusion protein. As shown in a band at approximately 115 KDa was detected by purified goat anti human factor B antibody in this non reducing SDS PAGE and Western blot analysis. The two higher bands most likely were aggregates of the monomeric fusion protein. The data suggested that the monomeric fusion protein between hfB3 292S and human IgG4 Fc hfB3 292S Fc mono was successfully expressed in mammalian cells and that the majority of the fusion protein appeared to be monomeric.

To examine if hfB3 292S Fc mono preserved hfB3 292S s property of blocking alternative complement activity an alternative complement activity assay was performed as described previously. As shown in the cell culture supernatant from hfB3 292S Fc mono producing cells inhibited the alternative complement activity in a dose dependent manner suggesting that hfB3 292S s complement inhibitory activity was not lost in this monomeric hfB3 292S Fc mono fusion protein.

All publications patents and patent applications mentioned in this specification are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety into the specification to the same extent as if each individual publication patent or patent application was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated herein by reference.

