---

title: Single photon source based on a quantum dot molecule in an optical cavity
abstract: A solid-state device for generating a single photon for quantum information processing, the device including: a quantum dot molecule including: a first singly-charged quantum dot; and a second singly-charged quantum dot; wherein the first singly-charged quantum dot is adjacent to the second singly-charged quantum dot; and a tunnel barrier that separates the first singly-charged quantum dot from the second singly-charged quantum dot.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09619754&OS=09619754&RS=09619754
owner: The United States of America, as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09619754
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150810
---
The embodiments described herein may be manufactured used and or licensed by or for the United States Government without the payment of royalties thereon.

The embodiments herein relate to quantum information processing and more particularly to a photon source for quantum information processing systems.

Single photons are the central element in quantum communication technologies such as quantum key distribution for secure communication and also in photonic based quantum logic technologies. Most systems currently use faint laser pulses as a photon source. The problem with this is that the laser pulses necessarily have a distribution in the number of photons in each pulse not just one photon. If there is more than one photon in a pulse the security in quantum communication is reduced and likewise the fidelity of the quantum logic operations is reduced.

In view of the foregoing an embodiment herein provides a solid state device for generating a single photon for quantum information processing the device comprising a quantum dot molecule comprising a first singly charged quantum dot and a second singly charged quantum dot adjacent to the first singly charged quantum dot and a tunnel barrier that separates the first singly charged quantum dot from the second singly charged quantum dot. The quantum dot molecule may be configured to have energy levels comprising a first energy level a second energy level and a third energy level wherein the first energy level is lower than the second energy level and the second energy level is lower than the third energy level and wherein the first energy level and the second energy level are closely spaced ground states and the third energy level is an optically excited state for the quantum dot molecule.

The quantum dot molecule may be configured to be a stationary quantum memory wherein the first energy level and the second energy level are used as a qubit bit. The quantum dot molecule may be in an optical cavity. The optical cavity may comprise any of a photonic crystal cavity a waveguide and a pillar etched into a semiconductor substrate. The quantum dot molecule may be configured to receive a laser beam wherein the laser beam triggers a Raman photon. A frequency of the Raman photon may be shifted from a frequency of the laser beam by an exchange frequency wherein a thickness of the tunnel barrier determines the exchange frequency. The solid state device may further be configured to feed the Raman photon to a filter the filter configured to filter the Raman photon from the laser beam. The first quantum dot and the second quantum dot may comprise indium arsenide quantum dots grown in a gallium arsenide substrate wherein the gallium arsenide of the substrate may constitute the tunnel barrier.

Another embodiment herein provides a method for generating a single photon for quantum information processing the method comprising triggering a Raman photon by emitting a laser to a quantum dot molecule wherein the quantum dot molecule comprises a first singly charged quantum dot and a second singly charged quantum dot adjacent to the first singly charged quantum dot. A tunnel barrier may separate the first singly charged quantum dot from the second singly charged quantum dot wherein the quantum dot molecule may be configured to have energy levels comprising a first energy level a second energy level and a third energy level wherein the first energy level is lower than the second energy level and the second energy level is lower than the third energy level and wherein the first energy level and the second energy level are closely spaced ground states and the third energy level is an optically excited state for the quantum dot molecule.

The method may further comprise shifting a frequency of the Raman photon from a frequency of the laser beam by an exchange frequency wherein a thickness of the tunnel barrier determines the exchange frequency. The method may further comprise filtering the Raman photon from the laser beam. The method may further comprise growing indium arsenide quantum dots in a gallium arsenide substrate to create the first quantum dot and the second quantum dot wherein the gallium arsenide of the substrate may constitute the tunnel barrier. The method may further comprise using the first energy level and the second energy level of the quantum dot molecule as a qubit bit in a stationary quantum memory.

Another embodiment herein provides a system for generating a single photon comprising a first singly charged quantum dot a second singly charged quantum dot adjacent to the first singly charged quantum dot and a tunnel barrier that separates the first singly charged quantum dot from the second singly charged quantum dot.

The system may further comprise an optical cavity for the first and second singly charged quantum dots wherein the optical cavity comprises any of a photonic crystal cavity a waveguide and a pillar etched into a semiconductor substrate. The first and second single charged quantum dots may be configured to have energy levels comprising a first energy level a second energy level and a third energy level wherein the first energy level is lower than the second energy level and the second energy level is lower than the third energy level and wherein the first energy level and the second energy level are closely spaced ground states and the third energy level is an optically excited state for the first and second quantum dots. The system may further comprise a filter configured to filter the Raman photon from the laser beam. The first quantum dot and the second quantum dot may comprise indium arsenide quantum dots grown in a gallium arsenide substrate wherein the gallium arsenide of the substrate may constitute the tunnel barrier.

These and other aspects of the embodiments herein will be better appreciated and understood when considered in conjunction with the following description and the accompanying drawings. It should be understood however that the following descriptions while indicating preferred embodiments and numerous specific details thereof are given by way of illustration and not of limitation. Many changes and modifications may be made within the scope of the embodiments herein without departing from the spirit thereof and the embodiments herein include all such modifications.

The embodiments herein and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the non limiting embodiments that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. Descriptions of well known components and processing techniques are omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the embodiments herein. The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an understanding of ways in which the embodiments herein may be practiced and to further enable those of skill in the art to practice the embodiments herein. The various dimensions and values described herein and shown in the drawings are merely examples and the embodiments herein are not limited to the particular dimensions and values provided. Accordingly the examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the embodiments herein.

The embodiments herein provide a solid state single photon source for quantum communication and other quantum information processing technologies. Referring now to the drawings and more particularly to where similar reference characters denote corresponding features consistently throughout the figures there are shown preferred embodiments.

In quantum information processing it is desirable to develop a true source of single photons based on single solid state emitters such as a semiconductor quantum dot QD . shows an example probability distribution of a number of photons in a laser pulse. A laser pulse source may generate zero or more than one photons. shows a probability distribution of a number of photons in an ideal single photon source. An ideal single photon source always generates one photon.

A single quantum dot may be incorporated into a solid state optical cavity. The optical cavity has the dual purpose of coupling the quantum dot to a single optical mode that can be efficiently emitted into a certain direction and of enhancing the transition rate of the quantum dot and thus the ultimate repetition rate of single photons. A single uncharged quantum dot may be used for this purpose. The single quantum dot is often treated as a two level system with a transition frequency equal to the optical cavity frequency. Typically the quantum dot cavity is excited at a laser frequency higher than the transition frequency. After energy relaxation the quantum dot cavity emits a single photon. Uncertainty in this relaxation time may give rise to timing jitter in the photon emission.

Instead of using a single uncharged quantum dot the embodiments herein use two singly charged quantum dots that are separated by a thin tunnel barrier. with reference to illustrates an embodiment using two singly charged quantum dots . This coupled quantum dot system is referred to herein as a quantum dot molecule QDM . The energy levels of the QDM are effectively a three level system in an optical cavity. In a three level system a laser beam can trigger a Raman single photon which is shifted from the laser beam . In an embodiment the two lowest energy states could also act as a solid state qubit bit i.e. a stationary quantum memory.

In an embodiment the QDM may be manufactured using self assembled InAs quantum dots grown in a GaAs substrate. with reference to show example embodiments and exemplary dimensions of the QDM manufactured using self assembled InAs quantum dots grown in a GaAs substrate . The InAs GaAs quantum dots may be grown in a diode such that a single electron can be injected into each quantum dot or at an appropriate voltage bias across the diode. shows an example embodiment of a diode including two quantum dots with exemplary dimensions.

Coherent tunneling of the two electrons between the two quantum dots through a thin GaAs tunnel barrier leads to the formation of two closely spaced ground states known as spin singlet and spin triplet states. The splitting between the singlet and triplet state energies is determined by the tunneling rate. The QDM can be excited and will emit through an optically excited state so that the system forms a three level system that is the two closely spaced ground states and the optically excited state.

The QDM can be processed into an optical cavity for efficient emission of single photons. The Raman emission process can be used to trigger a single photon. The QDM may be processed into an optical cavity defined in a photonic crystal using electron beam lithography. with reference to shows an embodiment of optical cavity in photonic crystal with exemplary dimensions.

The first and second single charged quantum dots may be configured to have energy levels including a first energy level a second energy level and a third energy level for example as shown in . The first energy level may be lower than the second energy level and the second energy level may lower than the third energy level . The first energy level and the second energy level are closely spaced ground states and the third energy level is an optically excited state for the first and second quantum dots. The first energy level and the second energy level may act as a solid state qubit bit for example in a stationary quantum memory.

System may further include filter . Filter may be configured to filter the Raman single photon from the laser beam . In an embodiment the filter may be configured as the bandpass filter shown in . The embodiments herein that use two singly charged quantum dots for example device of system may satisfy the basic characteristics of a single photon source such as 

 2 The photon efficiently emits into the cavity mode which can be collected from the device with an optical lens not shown .

 3 The optical transition rate and thus the single photon rate of the quantum dot molecule in a cavity can be very high.

 1 The single photon emission is triggered through the Raman process in which the frequency shift is determined by the thickness of the tunnel barrier . This can be quite large in order to easily filter out the laser beam while still being nearly resonant with the quantum dots or cavity .

 2 The photons can be more easily made phase coherent as compared to a two level system the laser beam is nearly degenerate with the QD cavity and thus there is negligible timing jitter arising from uncertainty in the time required to relax to the emitting state.

 3 The single emitted photon frequency is tunable by tuning the laser frequency in contrast to a two level system in which the photon frequency is fixed by the quantum dot frequency.

 4 The temporal lineshape of the single photon follows the laser beam lineshape and thus can be optimized for particular applications.

 5 The singlet triplet states of the quantum dot molecule acts as a stationary quantum memory that can be entangled with the state of the emitted photon. In a two level system there is no memory because the state of the quantum dot is destroyed in the emission.

The embodiments herein that use two singly charged quantum dots for example device of system may be manufactured by fabricating a quantum dot molecule into a diode structure using the InAs GaAs materials system for example as shown in through C and then patterning it into a photonic crystal cavity for example cavity shown in . The embodiments herein are not limited to an InAs GaAs semiconductor material system. The same concept could be used with other semiconductor quantum dot material systems.

In other embodiments a single quantum dot charged with a single electron could be used instead of the QDM if a large magnetic field was applied. The magnetic field would split the electron spin states into two energy levels through the Zeeman effect. With the optically excited state this also leads to a three level system in which the Raman process could be applied.

In other embodiments instead of an optical cavity the quantum dot molecule could be incorporated into a waveguide. The photon would then be emitted into a waveguide mode for on chip operations. Instead of a photonic crystal cavity or waveguide other types of optical cavities could be used such as a pillar etched into the semiconductor substrate.

Vora P. et al. Spin cavity interactions between a quantum dot molecule and a photonic crystal cavity vol. 6 article number 7665 doi 10.1038 ncomms8665 Jul. 17 2015 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety demonstrates that a quantum dot molecule may behave as a source of single photons on demand and that there may be an enhanced emission of photons in an optical cavity .

Some components of the embodiments herein can include a computer program product configured to include a pre configured set of instructions stored in non volatile memory which when performed can result in actions as stated in conjunction with the methods described above. The computer program may provide for electronically controlling emission of the laser beam or controlling a parameter of filter according to an embodiment herein. Control functions provided by the computer program may be remotely managed according to an embodiment. In an example the pre configured set of instructions can be stored on a tangible non transitory computer readable medium or a program storage device. In an example the tangible non transitory computer readable medium can be configured to include the set of instructions which when performed by a device can cause the device to perform acts similar to the ones described here.

The embodiments herein may also include tangible and or non transitory computer readable storage media for carrying or having computer executable instructions or data structures stored thereon. Such non transitory computer readable storage media can be any available media that can be accessed by a special purpose computer including the functional design of any special purpose processor module or circuit as discussed above. By way of example and not limitation such non transitory computer readable media can include RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to carry or store desired program code means in the form of computer executable instructions data structures or processor chip design. When information is transferred or provided over a network or another communications connection either hardwired wireless or combination thereof to a computer the computer properly views the connection as a computer readable medium. Thus any such connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of the computer readable media.

The foregoing description of the specific embodiments will so fully reveal the general nature of the embodiments herein that others can by applying current knowledge readily modify and or adapt for various applications such specific embodiments without departing from the generic concept and therefore such adaptations and modifications should and are intended to be comprehended within the meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments. It is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation. Therefore while the embodiments herein have been described in terms of preferred embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the embodiments herein can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

