---

title: Methods and apparatus for use in transferring an assignment of a secure chip between subscription managers
abstract: Techniques for use in transferring an assignment of a secure chip of a wireless device from a current subscription manager (SM) of a current mobile network operator (MNO) to a new SM of a new MNO are described. In one illustrative example, the current SM receives a request for transferring the assignment and produces transfer permission data in response. The transfer permission data includes an identifier of the secure chip, an identifier of the current SM, and a digital signature of the current SM. The current SM then sends to the secure chip a transfer permission message which includes the transfer permission data. The transfer permission data indicates a permission for the secure chip to transfer the assignment from the current SM to the new SM. Additional techniques are performed by the secure chip, and the new SM, as described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09572016&OS=09572016&RS=09572016
owner: Certicom Corp.
number: 09572016
owner_city: Mississauga, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20151023
---
The present disclosure relates to techniques for use in transferring an assignment of a secure chip e.g. an Embedded Universal Integrated Circuit Card or eUICC between subscription managers for wireless communication devices e.g. cellular telephones smartphones etc. .

For wireless communication devices it may be desirable to transfer service subscriptions from one mobile network operator MNO to another MNO. The desire may exist for example where there is no direct relationship or trust between the different MNOs. The transfer of service subscriptions involves the provisioning of a secure chip of mobile equipment ME . The secure chip may be one of many different types such as an eUICC which is not intended to be disconnected from the ME.

It may also be desirable to provide an unlock mechanism so that when the subscriber of the ME sells or otherwise gives the ME i.e. with the secure chip to another the new owner may provision the secure chip with credentials from an MNO of their choice. Even further one may wish to provide a new network access application NAA which provides authorization to the new network to allow an unlocked but otherwise unprovisioned secure chip to obtain credentials from the new MNO.

Techniques in these networks and environments may be suitable for use in other similar networks and environments.

Techniques for use in transferring an assignment of a secure chip of a wireless device from a current subscription manager SM of a current mobile network operator MNO to a new SM of a new MNO are described. In one illustrative example the current SM receives a request for transferring the assignment and produces transfer permission data in response. The transfer permission data includes an identifier of the secure chip an identifier of the current SM and a digital signature of the current SM. The current SM then sends to the secure chip a transfer permission message which includes the transfer permission data. The transfer permission data indicates a permission for the secure chip to transfer the assignment from the current SM to the new SM.

Example Environment. To illustrate an example system archtecture shows a block diagram of a communication system which includes a wireless device which communicates through a wireless communication network . Wireless device may comprise a visual display a keyboard and perhaps one or more auxiliary user interfaces UI each of which are coupled to a controller .

Controller is also coupled to radio frequency RF transceiver circuitry and an antenna . Typically controller is embodied as a central processing unit CPU which runs operating system software in a memory component not shown . Controller will normally control overall operation of wireless device whereas signal processing operations associated with communication functions are typically performed in RF transceiver circuitry .

Controller interfaces with device display to display received information stored information user inputs and the like. Keyboard which may comprise a telephone type keypad or full alphanumeric keyboard is optionally provided for entering data for storage in wireless device information for transmission to network a telephone number to place a telephone call commands to be executed on wireless device and possibly other or different user inputs. Keyboard may be substituted with a touch screen display or other suitable input mechanism or enhanced or replaced with a voice activated input module.

Wireless device sends communication signals to and receives communication signals from network over a wireless link via antenna . RF transceiver circuitry performs functions similar to those of a base station and a base station controller BSC described later below including for example modulation demodulation and possibly encoding decoding and encryption decryption. It is also contemplated that RF transceiver circuitry may perform certain functions in addition to those performed by BSC . It will be apparent to those skilled in art that RF transceiver circuitry will be adapted to the particular wireless network or networks in which wireless device is intended to operate. When wireless device is fully operational an RF transmitter of RF transceiver circuitry is typically keyed or turned on only when it is sending to network and is otherwise turned off to conserve resources. Similarly an RF receiver of RF transceiver circuitry is typically periodically turned off to conserve power until it is needed to receive signals or information if at all during designated time periods.

Wireless device may comprise a battery interface for receiving one or more rechargeable batteries . Battery electrical power to electrical circuitry in wireless device and battery interface provides for a mechanical and electrical connection for battery . Battery interface is coupled to a regulator which regulates power to the device. Wireless device may comprise a portable communication device e.g. a handheld portable communication device which includes a housing e.g. a plastic housing which carries and contains the electrical components of wireless device including battery .

Wireless device also operates using a secure chip which is embedded in wireless device . Secure chip is part of a smart card used to identify an end user or subscriber of wireless device and to personalize the device among other things. Secure chip may be also or alternatively referred to as a secure element. Secure chip generally includes a processor and a memory for storing information and is coupled to controller through communication lines . Without secure chip the mobile station terminal which may be referred to as mobile equipment or ME may not be fully operational for communications and services via wireless network . With secure chip in wireless device an end user of wireless device has access to any and all of the subscribed services. Secure chip may comprise for example a Universal SIM USIM or Removable User Identity Module RUIM or a Universal Integrated Circuit Card UICC or Embedded UICC eUICC or a secure element etc. depending on the particular technology.

Note that the subscriber may be an end user consumer or alternatively the subscriber may be associated with an enterprise such as an employer managing a fleet of employee devices. In some embodiments the techniques described herein may be used for changing the subscriptions of a plurality of devices such as a group of employee devices in an enterprise.

Wireless device may comprise a single unit such as a data communication device a cellular telephone a multiple function communication device with data and or voice communication capabilities a personal digital assistant PDA enabled for wireless communication or a computer incorporating an internal modem. As mentioned earlier wireless device may comprise a portable communication device e.g. a handheld portable communication device which includes a housing e.g. a plastic housing which carries and contains the electrical components of wireless device . Alternatively wireless device may be a multiple module unit comprising a plurality of separate components including but in no way limited to a computer or other device connected to a wireless modem.

Further depending on the functionality provided by wireless device in various examples wireless device may be a multiple mode communication device configured for both data and voice communication a mobile telephone such as a smartphone a wearable computer such as a watch a tablet computer such as a slate computer a personal digital assistant PDA or a computer system. In some embodiments wireless device may comprise a vehicle such as a car or other automobile a plane or other aircraft a train or a ship or other vessel etc. Wireless device may take other forms apart from those specifically listed above.

In particular for example in the mobile station block diagram of RF transceiver circuitry and antenna may be implemented as a radio modem unit that may be inserted into a port on a laptop computer. In this case the laptop computer would include display keyboard one or more auxiliary UIs and controller embodied as the computer s CPU. It is also contemplated that a computer or other equipment not normally capable of wireless communication may be adapted to connect to and effectively assume control of RF transceiver circuitry and antenna of a single unit device such as one of those described above. Such a wireless device may have a more particular implementation as described later in relation to wireless device of .

Wireless device communicates in and through wireless network . Wireless network may comprise a cellular telecommunications network. Wireless network may be owned and or operated by a wireless carrier e.g. a mobile network operator such as AT T Rogers Communications T Mobile etc. which provides a communication service e.g. a voice telephony service and or packet data service for mobile stations.

In the embodiment of wireless network is configured in accordance with Global Systems for Mobile communication GSM and General Packet Radio Service GPRS and technologies. Today such a mobile station may further operate in accordance with Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE or Enhanced GPRS EGPRS . Note that wireless network may be based on any other suitable network technology or network such as a Long Term Evolution LTE based network an EVolution Data Only EV DO based network a UMTS based network or High Speed Packet Access HSPA . Alternatively wireless network may comprise a wireless local area network i.e. IEEE 802.11 a Bluetooth based network a WiMAX based network i.e. IEEE 802.16 or a Ultra WideBand UWB based network i.e. IEEE 802.15 as a few examples.

In this environment wireless network may include a base station controller BSC with an associated base station a Mobile Switching Center MSC a Home Location Register HLR a Serving General Packet Radio Service GPRS Support Node SGSN and a Gateway GPRS Support Node GGSN . MSC is coupled to BSC and to a landline network such as a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN . SGSN is coupled to BSC and to GGSN which is in turn coupled to a public or private data network such as the Internet . HLR is coupled to MSC SGSN and GGSN .

Station is a fixed transceiver station and station and BSC may be referred to as transceiver equipment. The transceiver equipment provides wireless network coverage for a particular coverage area commonly referred to as a cell . The transceiver equipment transmits communication signals to and receives communication signals from mobile stations within its cell via station . The transceiver equipment normally performs such functions as modulation and possibly encoding and or encryption of signals to be transmitted to the mobile station in accordance with particular usually predetermined communication protocols and parameters under control of its controller. The transceiver equipment similarly demodulates and possibly decodes and decrypts if necessary any communication signals received from wireless device within its cell. Communication protocols and parameters may vary between different networks. For example one network may employ a different modulation scheme and operate at different frequencies than other networks.

For all wireless devices registered with a network operator permanent data such as wireless device user s profile as well as temporary data such as mobile station s current location are stored in HLR . In case of a voice call to wireless device HLR is queried to determine the current location of wireless device . A Visitor Location Register VLR of MSC is responsible for a group of location areas and stores the data of those mobile stations that are currently in its area of responsibility. This includes parts of the permanent mobile station data that have been transmitted from HLR to the VLR for faster access. However the VLR of MSC may also assign and store local data such as temporary identifications. Optionally the VLR of MSC can be enhanced for more efficient co ordination of GPRS and non GPRS services and functionality e.g. paging for circuit switched calls which can be performed more efficiently via SGSN and combined GPRS and non GPRS location updates .

Serving GPRS Support Node SGSN is at the same hierarchical level as MSC and keeps track of the individual locations of mobile stations. SGSN also performs security functions and access control. Gateway GPRS Support Node GGSN provides interworking with external packet switched networks and is connected with SGSNs such as SGSN via an IP based GPRS backbone network. SGSN performs authentication and cipher setting procedures based on algorithms keys and criteria e.g. as in existing GSM . In conventional operation cell selection may be performed autonomously by wireless device or by the transceiver equipment instructing wireless device to select a particular cell. Wireless device informs wireless network when it reselects another cell or group of cells known as a routing area.

In order to access GPRS services wireless device first makes its presence known to wireless network by performing what is known as a GPRS attach . This operation establishes a logical link between wireless device and GGSN and makes wireless device available to receive for example pages via SGSN notifications of incoming GPRS data or SMS messages over GPRS. In order to send and receive GPRS data wireless device assists in activating the packet data address that it wants to use. This operation makes wireless device known to GGSN interworking with external data networks can thereafter commence. User data may be transferred transparently between wireless device and the external data networks using for example encapsulation and tunneling. Data packets are equipped with GPRS specific protocol information and transferred between wireless device and GGSN .

Reference will now be made to which illustrates one example of a schematic block diagram of a wireless device which may comprise a wireless device of . In the illustrated example wireless device is a communication device and more particularly is a mobile communication device having data and voice communication capabilities and configured to communicate with other computer systems e.g. via the Internet . It will however be appreciated that wireless device may take other forms.

Depending on the functionality provided by wireless device in various examples wireless device may be a multiple mode communication device configured for both data and voice communication a mobile telephone such as a smartphone a wearable computer such as a watch a tablet computer such as a slate computer a personal digital assistant PDA or a computer system. In some embodiments wireless device may comprise a vehicle such as a car or other automobile a plane or other aircraft a train or a ship or other vessel etc. Wireless device may take other forms apart from those specifically listed above. The electronic device may also be referred to as a mobile communications device a communication device a mobile device and in some cases as a device.

Wireless device includes a controller including one or more processors such as a microprocessor which controls the overall operation of wireless device . The processor interacts with device subsystems such as a wireless communication subsystem for exchanging radio frequency signals with wireless network to perform communication functions. The processor is communicably coupled with additional device subsystems including one or more output interfaces such as a display and or a speaker and or electromagnetic EM radiation source one or more input interfaces such as a camera microphone keyboard not shown control buttons not shown a navigational input device not shown and or a touch sensitive overlay not shown associated with a touchscreen display an orientation subsystem memory such as flash memory random access memory RAM read only memory ROM etc. auxiliary input output I O subsystems a data port which may be a serial data port such as a Universal Serial Bus USB data port a near field communications NFC subsystem a short range wireless communication subsystem and other device subsystems generally designated as . Some of the subsystems shown in perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions.

In at least some examples wireless device may include a touchscreen display which acts as both an input interface i.e. touch sensitive overlay and an output interface i.e. display . The touchscreen display may be constructed using a touch sensitive input surface which is connected to an electronic controller and which overlays the display . The touch sensitive overlay and the electronic controller provide a touch sensitive input interface and the processor interacts with the touch sensitive overlay via the electronic controller. In at least some examples the touch sensitive overlay may have a touch sensitive input surface which is larger than the display . For example in at least some examples the touch sensitive overlay may extend overtop of a frame of which surrounds the display . In such example the frame of may be referred to as an active frame since it is capable of acting as an input interface . In at least some examples the touch sensitive overlay may extend to the sides of wireless device .

As noted above in some examples wireless device may include a communication subsystem which allows wireless device to communicate over wireless network . The communication subsystem includes a receiver a transmitter and associated components such as one or more antenna elements and local oscillators LOs and a processing module such as a digital signal processor DSP . The antenna elements and may be embedded or internal to wireless device and a single antenna may be shared by both receiver and transmitter. The particular design of the wireless communication subsystem depends on wireless network in which wireless device is intended to operate.

In at least some examples wireless device may communicate with any one of a plurality of base stations of wireless network within its geographic coverage area. Wireless device may send and receive communication signals over wireless network after the required network registration or activation procedures have been completed. Signals received by the antenna through wireless network are input to the receiver which may perform such common receiver functions as signal amplification frequency down conversion filtering channel selection etc. as well as analog to digital A D conversion. A D conversion of a received signal allows more complex communication functions such as demodulation and decoding to be performed in the DSP . In a similar manner signals to be transmitted are processed including modulation and encoding for example by the DSP . These DSP processed signals are input to the transmitter for digital to analog D A conversion frequency up conversion filtering amplification and transmission to wireless network via the antenna . The DSP not only processes communication signals but may also provide for receiver and transmitter control. For example the gains applied to communication signals in the receiver and the transmitter may be adaptively controlled through automatic gain control algorithms implemented in the DSP .

In some examples the auxiliary input output I O subsystems may include an external communication link or interface for example an Ethernet connection. Wireless device may include other wireless communication interfaces for communicating with other types of wireless networks for example a wireless network such as an orthogonal frequency division multiplexed OFDM network. The auxiliary I O subsystems may include a vibrator for providing vibratory notifications in response to various events on wireless device such as receipt of an electronic communication or incoming phone call or for other purposes such as haptic feedback touch feedback .

The data port may be used for synchronization with a user s host computer system not shown . The data port enables a user to set preferences through an external device or software application and extends the capabilities of wireless device by providing for information or software downloads to wireless device other than through wireless network . The alternate download path may for example be used to load an encryption key onto wireless device through a direct reliable and trusted connection to thereby provide secure device communication.

In at least some examples wireless device also includes a device orientation subsystem including at least one orientation sensor which is connected to the processor and which is controlled by one or a combination of a monitoring circuit and operating software. The orientation sensor detects the orientation of the device or information from which the orientation of the device can be determined such as acceleration. In some examples the orientation sensor is an accelerometer such as a three axis accelerometer. An accelerometer is a sensor which converts acceleration from motion e.g. movement of the device or a portion thereof due to the strike force and gravity which are detected by a sensing element and converted into an electrical signal producing a corresponding change in output . Accelerometers may be available in one two or three axis configurations. Higher order axis configurations are also possible. Accelerometers may produce digital or analog output signals depending on the type of accelerometer.

An orientation sensor may generate orientation data which specifies the orientation of wireless device . The orientation data in at least some examples specifies the orientation of the device relative to the gravitational field of the earth.

In some examples the orientation subsystem may include other orientation sensors instead of or in addition to accelerometers. For example in various examples the orientation subsystem may include a gravity sensor a gyroscope a tilt sensor an electronic compass or other suitable sensor or combinations thereof. In some examples the device orientation subsystem may include two or more orientation sensors such as an accelerometer and an electronic compass.

Wireless device may in at least some examples include a near field communications NFC subsystem . The NFC subsystem is configured to communicate with other wireless devices and or tags using an NFC communications protocol. NFC is a set of short range wireless technologies which typically require a distance of 4 cm or less for communications. The NFC subsystem may include an NFC chip and an NFC antenna.

Wireless device may include a microphone and or one or more speakers. In at least some examples wireless device may include a plurality of speakers . For example in some examples wireless device may include two or more speakers . The two or more speakers may for example be disposed in spaced relation to one another. That is in at least some examples wireless device may include a first speaker and a second speaker and the first speaker and the second speaker may be spatially separated from one another within wireless device . In at least some examples the display may be disposed between the first speaker and the second speaker of the electronic device. In such example the first speaker may be located at one side of the display and the second speaker may be located at another side of the display which is opposite the side of the display where the first speaker is located. For example the first speaker may be disposed at a left side of the display and the second speaker may be disposed at a right side of the display. In at least some examples each speaker may be associated with a separate audio channel. The multiple speakers may for example be used to provide stereophonic sound which may also be referred to as stereo .

Wireless device may also include one or more cameras . The one or more cameras may be capable of capturing images in the form of still photographs or motion video. In at least some examples wireless device includes a front facing camera . A front facing camera is a camera which is generally located on a front face of wireless device . The front face is typically the face on which a display is mounted. That is the display is configured to display content which may be viewed from a side of wireless device where the camera is directed. The front facing camera may be located anywhere on the front surface of the electronic device for example the camera may be located above or below the display . Alternatively or additionally camera may be located on a rear face of wireless device . The camera may be a fixed position camera which is not movable relative to the display of wireless device and or the housing of wireless device . In such examples the direction of capture of the camera is always predictable relative to the display and or the housing. In at least some examples the camera may be provided in a central location relative to the display to facilitate image acquisition of a face.

In at least some examples wireless device includes an electromagnetic EM radiation source . In at least some examples the EM radiation source is configured to emit electromagnetic radiation from the side of the electronic device which is associated with a camera of that wireless device . For example where the camera is a front facing camera wireless device may be configured to emit electromagnetic radiation from the front face of wireless device . That is in at least some examples the electromagnetic radiation source is configured to emit radiation in a direction which may visible by the camera. That is the camera and the electromagnetic radiation source may be disposed on wireless device so that electromagnetic radiation emitted by the electromagnetic radiation source is visible in images obtained by the camera.

In some examples the electromagnetic radiation source may comprise an infrared IR radiation source which is configured to emit infrared radiation. In at least some examples the electromagnetic radiation source may be configured to emit radiation which is not part of the visible spectrum. The camera may be a camera which is configured to capture radiation of the type emitted by the electromagnetic radiation source . Accordingly in at least some examples the camera is configured to capture at least some electromagnetic radiation which is not in the visible spectrum.

In some examples wireless device is provided with a service routing application programming interface API which provides an application with the ability to route traffic through a serial data i.e. USB or BLUETOOTH BLUETOOTH is a registered trademark of Bluetooth SIG Inc. connection to a host computer system using standard connectivity protocols. When a user connects their wireless device to the host computer system via a USB cable or BLUETOOTH connection traffic that was destined for wireless network is automatically routed to wireless device using the USB cable or BLUETOOTH connection. Similarly any traffic destined for wireless network is automatically sent over the USB cable BLUETOOTH connection to the host computer system for processing.

Wireless device may also include a battery as a power source which is typically one or more rechargeable batteries that may be charged for example through charging circuitry coupled to a battery interface such as the data port . The battery provides electrical power to at least some of the electrical circuitry in wireless device and the battery interface provides a mechanical and electrical connection for the battery . The battery interface is coupled to a regulator not shown which provides a regulated voltage V to the circuitry for powering wireless device .

Wireless device includes a short range communication subsystem which provides for wireless communication between wireless device and other wireless devices . The short range communication subsystem may be used to provide a preferred device mode between wireless device and another wireless device which may in at least some examples be a wireless device which is the same or similar to wireless device discussed with reference to . In at least some examples the short range communication subsystem is a wireless bus protocol compliant communication mechanism such as a BLUETOOTH communication module to provide for communication with similarly enabled systems and devices.

Wireless device stores data in an erasable persistent memory which in one example is the flash memory . In various examples the data includes service data including information required by wireless device to establish and maintain communication with wireless network . The data may also include user application data such as email messages address book and contact information calendar and schedule information notepad documents image files and other commonly stored user information stored on wireless device by its user and other data. The data stored in the persistent memory e.g. flash memory of wireless device may be organized at least partially into one or more databases or data stores. The databases or data stores may contain data items of the same data type or associated with the same application. For example email messages contact records and task items may be stored in individual databases within the device memory.

Wireless device may in some examples may comprise a mobile communication device which may provide a data communication mode and a voice communication mode. In the data communication mode a received data signal such as a text message an email message or Web page download will be processed by the communication subsystem and input to the processor for further processing. For example a downloaded Web page may be further processed by a browser application or an email message may be processed by an email messaging application and output to the display . A user of wireless device may also compose data items such as email messages for example using the input devices in conjunction with the display . These composed items may be transmitted through the communication subsystem over wireless network .

In the voice communication mode wireless device provides telephony functions and generally operates as a cellular phone. The overall operation is similar except that the received signals would be output to the speaker and signals for transmission would be generated by a transducer such as the microphone . The telephony functions are provided by a combination of software firmware i.e. a voice communication module and hardware i.e. the microphone the speaker and input interfaces . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem may also be implemented on wireless device . Although voice or audio signal output is typically accomplished primarily through the speaker the display screen may also be used to provide an indication of the identity of a calling party duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

The processor operates under stored program control and executes software modules stored in memory such as persistent memory for example in the flash memory . As illustrated in the software modules include operating system software and other software applications such as device mode module . In the example of the device mode module is implemented as a stand alone application . However in other examples the device mode module could be implemented as part of the operating system or another application .

The software applications on wireless device may also include a range of additional applications including for example a notepad application Internet browser application voice communication i.e. telephony application mapping application or a media player application or any combination thereof. Each of the software applications may include layout information defining the placement of particular fields and graphic elements e.g. text fields input fields icons etc. in the user interface e.g. the display according to the application.

The software modules or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into volatile memory such as the RAM . The RAM is used for storing runtime data variables and other types of data or information as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Although specific functions are described for various types of memory this is merely one example and those skilled in the art will appreciate that a different assignment of functions to types of memory could also be used.

A set of applications that control basic device operations including data and possibly voice communication applications will normally be installed on wireless device during or after manufacture. Additional applications and or upgrades to the operating system or software applications may also be loaded onto wireless device through wireless network the auxiliary I O subsystem the data port the short range communication subsystem or other suitable subsystem . The downloaded programs or code modules may be permanently installed for example written into the program memory i.e. the flash memory or written into and executed from the RAM for execution by the processor at runtime.

Example Smartphone Electronic Device. Referring now to a front view of an example wireless device which is a smartphone is illustrated. The smartphone is a mobile phone which offers more advanced computing capability than a basic non smartphone cellular phone. For example the smartphone may have the ability to execute third party applications which are stored on the smartphone.

The smartphone may include the components discussed above with reference to or a subset of those components. The smartphone includes a housing which houses at least some of the components discussed above with reference to .

In the example illustrated the smartphone includes a display which may comprise a touchscreen display which acts as an input interface . The display is disposed within the smartphone so that it is viewable at a front side of the smartphone . That is a viewable side of the display is disposed on the front side of the smartphone. In the example illustrated the display is framed by the housing .

The example smartphone also includes other input interfaces such as one or more buttons keys or navigational input mechanisms. In the example illustrated at least some of these additional input interfaces are disposed for actuation at the front side of the smartphone.

The example smartphone also includes a speaker . In the example illustrated the smartphone includes a single speaker which is disposed vertically above the display when the smartphone is held in a portrait orientation where its height is longer than its width. The speaker may be disposed on the front face of the smartphone .

While the example smartphone of includes a single speaker in other examples the smartphone may include a greater number of speakers . For example in at least some examples the smartphone may include a second speaker which is disposed vertically below the display when the smartphone is held in a portrait orientation where its height is longer than its width i.e. the orientation illustrated in .

The example smartphone also includes a microphone . In the example illustrated the microphone is vertically disposed below the display when the smartphone is held in the portrait orientation. The microphone and at least one speaker may be arranged so that the microphone is in close proximity to a user s mouth and the speaker is in close proximity to a user s ear when the user holds the phone to their face to converse on the smartphone.

The example smartphone also includes a front facing camera which may be located vertically above the display when the smartphone is held in a portrait orientation where its height is longer than its width. The front facing camera is located so that it may capture images of objects which are located in front of and or surrounding the front side of the smartphone .

The example smartphone also includes an electromagnetic radiation source . The electromagnetic radiation source is disposed on the front side of the smartphone . In this orientation electromagnetic radiation which is produced by the electromagnetic radiation source may be projected onto objects which are located in front of and or surrounding the front side of the smartphone . Such electromagnetic radiation or the projection of electromagnetic radiation onto objects may be captured on images obtained by the camera .

Example Tablet Electronic Device. The wireless device may comprise a tablet computer tablet one of which is illustrated in . Tablet computer of may include many of the same features and components of the smartphone of . However tablet computer of is generally larger than the smartphone of . Tablet computer may include the components discussed above with reference to or a subset of those components. Tablet computer includes a housing which houses at least some of the components discussed above with reference to .

Tablet computer includes a display which may comprise a touchscreen display which acts as an input interface . The display is disposed within tablet computer so that it is viewable at a front side of tablet computer . That is a viewable side of the display is disposed on the front side of tablet computer . In the example illustrated the display is framed by the housing with use of a frame which surrounds the display . The frame is portion of the housing which provides a border around the display . In at least some examples the frame is an active frame . That is the frame has a touch sensitive overlay which allows wireless device to detect a touch applied to the frame thereby allowing the frame to act as an input interface of .

The example tablet computer includes a plurality of speakers . In the example illustrated the tablet includes two speakers . The two speakers are disposed on opposing sides of the display . More particularly when tablet computer is oriented in a landscape orientation such as the orientation illustrated in where its width is longer than its height one of the two speakers is disposed on a right side of the display and one of the speakers is disposed on the left side of the display . Both speakers are disposed on the front side of tablet computer .

The example tablet computer also includes a microphone . In the example illustrated the microphone is vertically disposed below the display when the tablet computer is held in the landscape orientation illustrated in . The microphone may be located in other locations in other examples.

The example tablet computer also includes a front facing camera which may be located vertically above the display when tablet computer is oriented in a landscape orientation i.e. the orientation of . The front facing camera is located so that it may capture images of objects which are located in front of and or surrounding the front side of tablet computer .

The example tablet computer also includes an electromagnetic radiation source . The electromagnetic radiation source is disposed on the front side of tablet computer . In this orientation electromagnetic radiation which is produced by the electromagnetic radiation source may be projected onto objects which are located in front of and or surrounding the front side of tablet computer . Such electromagnetic radiation or the projection of electromagnetic radiation onto objects may be captured on images obtained by the camera .

Reference is now made to which depicts a communication system in which assignment of a secure chip of the wireless device is transferred from a current subscription manager SM of a current mobile network operator MNO to a new SM of a new MNO. In some examples secure chip comprises an Embedded Universal Integrated Circuit Card eUICC . Distinctions between an eUICC and a UICC include the following. An eUICC is phyiscally attached e.g. soldered to the ME whereas the UICC is removable. Also the owner of the ME will be the owner of the eUICC. A subscription manager SM entity is defined which has credentials allowing the remote modification of profiles that contain NAAs on an eUICC. Note that the original motivation for eUICC was centered around machine type communications called M2M MTM or MTC typically herein M2M .

As an example it would be desirable to phase smart meters and other M2M devices out of UICCs and into eUICCs. Examples of smart meters include utility e.g. electricity water gas etc. meters. Examples of other machines include security cameras. Indeed changing the subscription associated with the meters requires manually changing UICCs which is costly and time consuming. Unlike UICCs which are provisioned prior to being combined with the ME eUICCs may be provisioned after being combined with the ME.

The GSMA has defined a subscription manager function which has the capability to perform such provisioning 

By allowing a subscription manager to manage eUICCs OTA or through a physical connection to the device changes to NAA or a profile may be done remotely.

Profiles are the logical entities transferred from a SM to a secure chip entities that include all of the necessary credentials and secrets required for the wireless device to access the network. The secrets are contained in the network access application NAA and or network access credentials NAC . In order to install profiles through a wired connection e.g. USB or wireless connection over the air or OTA the SM needs the necessary credentials i.e. Profile Installer Credentials and Profile Management Credentials associated with the secure chip.

This management is enabled by means of credentials Profile Installer Credentials and Profile Management Credentials stored at the SM and known by the eUICC. This secret information may be generated at the point of eUICC manufacture provided by the eUICC manufacturer to the SM for example. It is important to note that the ownership of and responsibility for the SM are not defined though it is expected that in at least some cases the SM will be owned and or controlled by a network operator. While ownership of UICCs typically remained with the network operator this is likely to change for eUICCs such that ownership of the physical hardware is likely to be tied to that of the ME but control by means of the SM is retained by the network operator.

These eUICCs although originally intended for M2M devices and applications will most likely migrate to all types of wireless terminals including handsets.

Current MNO has and operates a wireless communication network within which wireless device may communicate and receive these communication services e.g. see . Current SM which may be implemented as one or more servers is accessible by wireless device via wireless communication network . Current SM is configured to manage operational profiles and provisioning profiles on secure chips of a plurality of wireless devices e.g. secure chip of wireless device that are subscribed to the communication services of MNO . Note that current MNO and SM may be or be part of the same entity or actor.

The subscriber of wireless device may wish to change the subscription of communication services from current MNO to a new MNO which includes or is associated with a new SM . To facilitate such a change an assignment of secure chip may be transferred from current SM of current MNO to new SM of new MNO with use of techniques of the present disclosure.

Like current MNO new MNO has and operates a wireless communication network within which wireless device may communicate and receive its communication services e.g. see . Like current SM new SM is configured to manage operational profiles and provisioning profiles on secure chips of a plurality of wireless devices that are subscribed to the communication services of new MNO . Note that new MNO and new SM may be or be part of the same entity or actor.

The profiles may be or include operational profiles and or provisioning profiles. An operational profile generally comprises a profile containing one or more network access applications and associated network access credentials. A provisioning profile generally comprises a profile containing one or more network access applications and associated network access credentials which when installed on a secure chip enables access to one or more networks provides transport capability for secure chip management and profile management between the secure chip and the SM.

Note that the various techniques provided herein may be embodied as a computer program product which comprises a computer readable medium e.g. memory computer disk etc. and computer instructions stored in the computer readable medium where the computer instructions are executable by one or more processors of a secure chip the SM e.g. a server thereof or other device etc. for use in transferring an assignment of the secure chip of the wireless device from the current SM to the new SM.

A first part of the technique in steps of may be referred to as subscription manager transfer activation . Such activation gives current MNO the ability to allow or reject a subscriber request for subscription transfer through an activation process for the requested subscription change. A second part of the technique in steps may be referred to as subscription manager pivot protocol . Such protocol is configured to facilitate a transfer of trust between current SM and new SM even without direct communication between them.

Prior to the technique current SM obtains its public key private key pair and its digital certificate which includes the public key signed directly or indirectly by a root of trust ROT . Secure chip obtains or is configured with a public key of the ROT to perform signature verification and obtains or configured with a digital certificate of current SM .

A terminal which may comprise a computer terminal or PC may be utilized by the subscriber to interact with current MNO . Current MNO may provide a server e.g. the MNO s web portal for terminals such as terminal to interact with over a public or private network e.g. the Internet .

In response to an input request from the subscriber terminal sends a request for transferring an assignment of SMs i.e. subscription transfer to the server of current MNO step of . The request may include an identity of the subscriber an identity of secure chip or both. The request may additionally include an identity of the new SM the digital certificate of new SM the identity of the new MNO or combinations thereof.

In response to receiving the request the current MNO obtains a digital certificate of the new SM . Current MNO may obtain the digital certificate of the new SM from terminal or from a global digital certificate repository using the identity of the new MNO as examples.

The server of current MNO performs a check to identify whether the subscription transfer is allowed for the subscriber. If the subscription transfer is allowed then current MNO sends a corresponding request for the subscription transfer to the current SM step of . The corresponding request at least includes an identifier of secure chip for which the subscription transfer is being made. The corresponding request may additionally include the identifier of new SM the digital certificate of new SM or both. Alternatively the new SM may be unspecified and intended for open ended selection.

The digital certificate of new SM may include an identifier of new SM e.g. a globally unique SM ID and a public key of new SM . In addition the digital certificate of new SM may include a provisioning profile of new MNO of new SM . A provisioning profile generally comprises a profile containing one or more network access applications and associated network access credentials. When installed on a secure chip such profile enables access to one or more networks and provides transport capability for secure chip management and profile management between the secure chip and the SM. In combination with the digital certificate of secure chip the digital certificate of new SM is used to establish a secure channel to manage the secure chip . The digital certificate of new SM is also used for verification of the signature of new SM i.e. verification of the SMTP in the second part of the technique in steps which is referred to as the subscription manager pivot protocol .

Even further current MNO may generate and additionally include a transfer activation code in the corresponding request to current SM . This transfer activation code may comprise a one time and or a time limited code. Current MNO may also send the transfer activation code to terminal for displaying the code to the subscriber.

Current MNO then sends an acceptance message to terminal providing an indication at terminal that secure chip will be allowed to transfer to a new MNO step of . The acceptance message may include the transfer activation code.

If the subscription transfer is disallowed then current MNO refrains from sending the corresponding request for the subscription transfer to the current SM in step of . Current MNO sends a reject message to terminal providing an indication at terminal that secure chip will not be allowed to transfer to a new MNO.

In response to receiving the corresponding request in step of current SM proceeds to produce transfer permission data step of . The transfer permission data may be alternatively referred to as a subscription manager transfer permit SMTP . The transfer permission data indicates a permission for secure chip to transfer the assignment from a current SM e.g. current SM to a new SM e.g. new SM .

The transfer permission data may include an identifier of secure chip an identifier of current SM and a digital signature of current SM . The transfer permission data may further include an identifier of new SM . In this step of current SM binds the identifier of secure chip the identifier of current SM and optionally the identifier of SM by signing one of these items using its private key for producing this transfer permission data.

Current SM then sends to secure chip a transfer permission message which includes the transfer permission data step of . The transfer permission message may be alternatively referred to as an SM transfer activation message . The transfer permission message may include an identifier of new SM a digital certificate of new SM or both. The transfer permission message may additionally include the transfer activation code.

Secure chip verifies the digital certificate of new SM using the public key of the ROT. Secure chip also verifies the signature of the current SM in the transfer permission data using the digital certificate of current SM .

If these items are positively verified then secure chip may cause an input prompt to be produced at the wireless device. The input prompt is provided to prompt the subscriber to enter the transfer activation code. This may be performed through use of a smart card web server which executes a trusted web application for example. Next terminal receives a code via user input from the subscriber and the web application sends a transfer verification message to secure chip which includes the subscriber entered code. Secure chip receives the entered code and compares it with the transfer activation code. If there is a match secure chip allows the second part of the technique to be performed in steps . In this case the transfer activation code is then no longer valid. If there is no match secure chip disallows the second portion of the technique of steps .

Note that if a transfer activation code is not required or the transfer permission message does not include a transfer activation code the input prompt may prompt for an acknowledgement from the subscriber without prompting for any code. Here for example the input prompt may ask the subscriber to confirm that SM transfer is desired.

Again the second part of the technique in steps may be referred to as a subscription manager pivot protocol. Such protocol is configured to facilitate a transfer of trust between current SM and new SM even without direct communication between them. Previous to these steps secure chip obtains a public private key pair and a digital certificate for itself which is signed by the ROT. Secure chip also obtains and validates the digital certificate of the new SM .

In response to the secure chip receiving the transfer permission message in step or in response to the subscriber inputting a matching code in step secure chip signs the transfer permission data using its private key. Secure chip then sends the signed transfer permission data and its digital certificate to new SM in a transfer request message.

The digital certificate of secure chip may include an identifier of secure chip e.g. a globally unique eUICC ID and a public key of secure chip . The digital certificate of secure chip is used to establish a secure channel with secure chip . The digital certificate of secure chip is also used for verification of the signature i.e. verification of the SMTP in the second part of the technique in steps which is referred to as the subscription manager pivot protocol .

The transfer request message may alternatively be referred to as an SM transfer request message . New SM uses these items to establish connectivity and transmit the transfer request message to new SM step of .

New SM obtains the digital certificate of the current SM step of . The digital certificate may be obtained with use of the identity of the current SM or source ID in the transfer permission data. The digital certificate may be obtained from for example the certificate repository e.g. subauthority CA . Subauthority CA responds to new SM with the digital certificate of current SM step of .

New SM receives the digital certificate of secure chip and verifies it. New SM also verifies the signed permission transfer data using the digital certificate of secure chip . Further new SM also verifies the encapsulated transfer permission data using the digital certificate of new SM . New SM stores the digital certificate of secure chip in association with the identity of secure chip . New SM notifies new MNO of the gain of trust for a new secure chip . New SM produces a transfer acknowledgement message and sends it to secure chip step of . The transfer acknowledgement message may be produced by new SM by signing the identity of secure chip the identity of current SM and the identity of new SM .

New SM and secure chip then communicate via the wireless network and perform an authentication procedure with use of their digital certificates. The public key in each digital certificate e.g. the profile management credentials are used by new SM and secure chip to produce a session key over which new SM may provision secure chip with appropriate data. New SM performs a provisioning procedure with secure chip to send secure chip one or more profiles. Secure chip stores these profiles for network access. In particular new SM provisions secure chip with the operational profile of new MN .

In at least some embodiments signaling to enable trusted third part control of trust between a secure chip and different SMs is reduced. Other advantages are readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art.

As described herein techniques for use in transferring an assignment of a secure chip of a wireless device from a current subscription manager SM of a current mobile network operator MNO to a new SM of a new MNO have been described. In one illustrative example the current SM receives a request for transferring the assignment and produces transfer permission data in response. The transfer permission data includes an identifier of the secure chip an identifier of the current SM and a digital signature of the current SM. The current SM then sends to the secure chip a transfer permission message which includes the transfer permission data. The transfer permission data indicates a permission for the secure chip to transfer the assignment from the current SM to the new SM.

Another technique is for use in a secure chip of a wireless device for facilitating a transfer of assignment of the secure chip from a current subscription manager SM of a current mobile network operator MNO to a new SM of a new MNO. The secure chip receives from the current SM a transfer permission message which includes transfer permission data. The transfer permission data includes an identifier of the current SM and a digital signature of the current SM. The secure chip verifies the digital signature of the current SM. The secure chip also sends to the new SM a transfer request message which includes the transfer permission data an identifier of the new SM and a digital signature of the secure chip.

Yet even another technique for use in transferring an assignment of a secure chip of a wireless device from a current subscription manager SM of a current mobile network operator MNO to a new SM of a new MNO is provided. The new SM receives from the secure chip a transfer request message which includes a transfer permission message and a digital signature of the secure chip. The transfer permission message includes transfer permission data having an identifier of the current SM and a digital signature of the current SM. The new SM verifies in the transfer request message the digital signature of the secure chip. The new SM also verifies in the transfer permission data the digital signature of the current SM. If the digital signatures are positively verified then the secure chip is assigned to the new SM.

The above described embodiments of the present disclosure are intended to be examples only. Those of skill in the art may affect alterations modifications and variations to the particular embodiments without departing from the scope of the application. The invention s described herein in the recited claims intend to cover and embrace all suitable changes in technology.

