---

title: Method of utilizing image based on location information of the image in electronic device and the electronic device thereof
abstract: An image utilizing method based on location information of an image is provided. The method includes displaying an image, setting a Region Of Interest (ROI) on the image, obtaining location information associated with the ROI, and storing the obtained location information together with an image of the ROI. The location information is stored together when the ROI is designated and thus, it is possible to provide various services based on the location information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09429447&OS=09429447&RS=09429447
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09429447
owner_city: Suwon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20150324
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 a of a Korean patent application filed on Jun. 10 2014 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office and assigned Serial number 10 2014 0070120 the entire content disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure relates to a method of utilizing an image based on location information of the image in an electronic device and a device thereof.

An electronic device directly controlled by a user includes at least one display device. The user controls the electronic device through an input device while viewing operations of an application executed on the display device of the electronic device. The user may desire to store the application execution screen as it is or may desire to memorize the content of the screen. Currently an electronic device such as a portable phone provides a screenshot function a clip board function and the like.

Among those functions the screenshot function stores the whole screen as in image format. The clip board function stores and displays a cut or copied object according to a cut or copy command. A desired screen image text and the like may be stored from the application execution screen through the screenshot function the clip board function and the like according to the request of the user. Accordingly the user is capable of accessing the stored content whenever needed.

The above information is presented as background information only to assist with an understanding of the present disclosure. No determination has been made and no assertion is made as to whether any of the above might be applicable as prior art with regard to the present disclosure.

Aspects of the present disclosure are to address at least the above mentioned problems and or disadvantages and to provide at least the advantages described below. Accordingly an aspect of the present disclosure is to provide a screenshot is stored merely with a file name assigned for the screenshot or with a brief description input for the screenshot. A user may have difficulty in remembering the circumstance where the screenshot is obtained based on the stored screenshot. In addition the information inputting scheme is based on merely a scheme that requires a user to directly input information. In this manner in the case of the clip board function an object such as text an image and the like is displayed in a form of a simplified image or an icon on the clip board. In this instance a date and time when the object is generated may be displayed together.

As described above information associated with an object may be stored together with the object such as text the image and the like. However when the user desires to access the stored object the electronic device merely displays the object and information stored together. The electronic device connects the object to a related application such as a document viewer a gallery or the like by identifying the type of the object for example text an image or the like.

Another aspect of the present disclosure is to provide a method of improving utility of collected information or multiple pieces of information associated with an image of a selected region based on the image and the data collected together and an electronic device thereof. Another aspect of the present disclosure is to provide a method of providing a service by utilizing information associated with an image based on the image of a region selected by a user and an electronic device thereof.

Another aspect of the present disclosure is to provide a method of readily managing information associated with a Region Of Interest ROI by storing an image of the ROI selected by a user from an image including location information together with location information of the ROI and an electronic device thereof.

In accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure a method of utilizing an image based on location information of the image in an electronic device is provided. The method includes displaying an image setting a ROI on the image obtaining location information associated with the ROI and storing the obtained location information together with an image of the ROI.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure an electronic device that utilizes an image based on location information of the image is provided. The electronic device includes a display unit configured to display an image a memory including a storage area for a clip board and a controller that executes a control to set a ROI on the image to obtain location information of the ROI and to store the obtained location information together with an image of the ROI.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure when a user designates a desired region in a state in which an image including location information is displayed in an electronic device the electronic device may automatically extract location information associated with an image of the designated region and thus the user does not need to input location information associated with the designated region for each time and the user may more conveniently use the device.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure location information is further stored in addition to an image of a ROI and thus the ROI may be readily managed and utilized.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure an image of a ROI on an image including location information and actual location information of the ROI on a map are stored together and thus the information may be used for providing a location related service. Accordingly the utility of the image of the ROI may be increased based on the location information associated with the image of the ROI and the information may be connected with various services.

Other aspects advantages and salient features of the disclosure will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description which taken in conjunction with the annexed drawings discloses various embodiments of the present disclosure.

Throughout the drawings it should be noted that like reference numbers are used to depict the same or similar elements features and structures.

The following description with reference to the accompanying drawings is provided to assist in a comprehensive understanding of various embodiments of the present disclosure as defined by the claims and their equivalents. It includes various specific details to assist in that understanding but these are to be regarded as merely exemplary. Accordingly those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that various changes and modifications of the various embodiments described herein can be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the present disclosure. In addition descriptions of well known functions and constructions may be omitted for clarity and conciseness.

The term and words used in the following description and claims are not limited to the bibliographical meanings but are merely used by the inventor to enable a clear and consistent understanding of the present disclosure. Accordingly it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the following description of various embodiments of the present disclosure is provided for illustration purposes only and not for the purpose of limiting the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

It is to be understood that the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a component surface includes reference to one or more of such surfaces.

The expressions such as first second or the like used in various embodiments of the present disclosure may modify various component elements in the various embodiments but may not limit corresponding component elements. For example the above expressions do not limit the sequence and or importance of the elements. The expressions may be used to distinguish a component element from another component element. For example a first user device and a second user device indicate different user devices although both are user devices. For example without departing from the scope of the present disclosure a first component element may be named a second component element. Similarly the second component element also may be named the first component element.

It should be noted that if one component element is described as coupled or connected to another component element the first component element may be directly coupled or connected to the second component and a third component element may be coupled or connected between the first and second component elements. Conversely when one component element is directly coupled or directly connected to another component element it may be construed that a third component element does not exist between the first component element and the second component element.

The terms used in various embodiments of the present disclosure are merely used to exemplify a certain embodiment and should not limit various embodiments of the present disclosure. As used herein the singular forms are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.

Unless defined differently all terms used herein which include technical terminologies or scientific terminologies have the same meaning as a person skilled in the art to which the present disclosure belongs. Such terms as those defined in a generally used dictionary are to be interpreted to have the meanings equal to the contextual meanings in the relevant field of art and are not to be interpreted to have ideal or excessively formal meanings unless clearly defined in the present disclosure.

Electronic devices according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be devices adopting a communication function. For example the electronic devices may include at least one of smart phones tablet personal computers PCs mobile phones video phones e book readers desktop PCs laptop PCs netbook computers personal digital assistants PDAs portable multimedia players PMPs MP3 players mobile medical devices cameras wearable devicese.g. head mounted devices HMDs such as electronic glasses electronic clothes electronic bracelets electronic necklaces electronic appcessories electronic tattoos or smart watches.

An electronic device may be a smart home appliance with a communication function. The smart home appliance as an example of the electronic device may include at least one of for example a television a Digital Video Disk DVD player an audio system a refrigerator an air conditioner a vacuum cleaner an oven a microwave oven a washing machine an air cleaner a set top box a TV box e.g. Samsung HomeSync Apple TV or Google TV a game console an electronic dictionary an electronic key a camcorder and an electronic picture frame.

An electronic device may include at least one of various medical devices such as a magnetic resonance angiography MRA scanner a magnetic resonance imaging MRI scanner a computed tomography CT scanner a scanner an ultrasonograph or the like a navigation device a Global Positioning System GPS receiver an Event Data Recoder EDR a Flight Data Recoder FDR a vehicle infotainment device an electronic equipment for ship for example a ship navigation device and gyro compass and the like avionics a security device a head unit for vehicle an industrial or household robot automatic teller machine ATM in banking facilities or point of sales POS in stores.

The electronic devices may include at least one of furniture or a part of a building structure having a communication function electronic boards electronic signature receiving devices projectors or various measuring equipment e.g. equipment for a water supply an electricity gases or radio waves . An electronic device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure may be a combination of one or more of above described various devices. An electronic device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure may be a flexible device. The electronic device however is not limited to the above described devices.

Hereinafter an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure will be described with reference to the accompanying drawings. The term user used in various embodiments may refer to a person who uses an electronic device or a device for example an artificial intelligence electronic device that uses an electronic device.

Embodiments of the present disclosure provide an image utilizing method based on location information of an image and accordingly when a region is designated by an input unit in a state in which the image is displayed the method sets a Region Of Interest ROI of a predetermined size based on the central coordinates of the designated region obtains actual location information of the ROI and stores the obtained location information together with an image of the ROI. The location information is stored together when the ROI is designated and thus it is possible to provide various services based on the location information.

Referring to a network environment includes an electronic device an electronic device a server and a network . The electronic device may include a bus a processor a memory an input output interface a display and a communication interface . The bus may be a circuit to connect the above described components with each other and to transfer communication e.g. control messages between the above described components.

The processor may for example receive commands from other component elements e.g. the memory the input output interface the display and the communication interface through the bus analyze the received commands and execute calculation or data processing according to the analyzed commands.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure a controller may include the processor and the memory for storing information required by the processor .

The controller may be a central processing device and controls general operations of the electronic device and executes operations associated with an image utilizing method that is based on location information of an image according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.

When it is desired to designate a region on an image for example a map image a browser image and the like displayed on the display using an input unit according to a clip and or copy command the controller recognizes a movement of the input unit until the continuous movement of the input unit is terminated. A closed curve drawn to clip a region from the image is displayed on the image based on the recognized result and the controller may select the region in a form of the closed curve when the locations of a starting point and an end point of the input unit satisfy a standard set in advance. Based on the closed curve a ROI may be set. When the closed curve is completed the controller may display a clip board that stores clipped and or copied objects in a predetermined area of the display . For example the clip board may be displayed to be close to an area of the display where an image is displayed or may be displayed by being overlaid on image. The clip board is a user interface area including at least a few simplified symbols associated with the clipped and or copied objects.

The controller may store the objects an image text or the like clipped and or copied according to a clip and or copy command in a clip board area of the memory . The clip board may store the objects until the objects are deleted from the clip board and the objects may be visually displayed and provided. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the clipped or copied objects are referred to as a ROI.

The controller may execute a predetermined application in associated with the clipped object or an application designated by a user and may provide information associated with the clipped object by displaying the clipped object in an execution mode of the application. For example when the clipped object is selected on the clip board a map application is executed and an identification indication and location information associated with a location where the object is clipped may be displayed on a map image. Alternatively when the clipped object is selected on the clip board the controller may execute a navigation application and may execute route guidance based on a location corresponding to the clipped object. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure applications that are based on location information of an object that is stored in the clip board may not be limited to the map application the navigation application and the like and may include all applications that may be available for utilizing an image based on location information of a clipped object.

Information associated with a clipped object i.e. information associated with a ROI may include location information. The location information may include the location coordinates of a place corresponding to the clipped object and the location coordinates may be obtained from an external server. For example when a region to be clipped and or copied from the image is designated the controller may transmit to the external server a message for requesting location coordinates of the designated region and may obtain location information including actual location coordinates that may be obtained in response to the message.

To obtain the information associated with the clipped object i.e. the information associated with the ROI the controller may calculate the central coordinates of the ROI that encloses the closed curve based on the center of the closed curve. The ROI is set in the smallest circular shape that is circumscribed about the closed curve based on the central coordinates of the closed curve. The controller may obtain actual location information on a map which is coordinate information formed of latitude and longitude obtained from the memory or the external server through comparison using a reduced scale on the map based on the calculated central coordinates of the ROI and a radius of the circle. Accordingly the controller may store in the memory an image of the ROI and location information of the ROI. As described above by adding the location information to the image of the ROI a location associated with the ROI may be determined and thus a user may conveniently manage the ROI.

The clip board is a user interface area that includes symbols that simplify the image of the ROI or a clipped image that is a shape of a clipped region. Accordingly the region drawn by a user as a closed curve on a map image may be clipped and or copied and may be displayed on the clip board. A symbol or a shape displayed on the clip board may provide a clipped object that is an image of the clipped region by processing the same or provide the same as it is. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure a clipped object included in the clip board may be for example a clipped or processed image although the clipped object indicates an image copied from an image displayed on a screen.

As described above a clipped and or copied object and location information of the object that are stored in the memory may be displayed through the clip board and alternatively may be displayed through execution of a related application. An object clipped and or copied from an image displayed on a screen may be referred to as an image of a ROI and the image of the ROI and location information of the ROI may be displayed through the clip board. The location information of the ROI may include coordinates such as latitude longitude and the like and may include information that describes a title or a characteristic of the ROI and the information may include text an image and the like. The location information of the ROI may also be information that describes the ROI or event information that is updated in real time. Currently collected event information may be output to the clip board together with the image of the ROI. For example predetermined event information may be collected based on the characteristic of the selected ROI and some of the collected event information may be displayed. Information that is basically provided in the ROI and images thereof may be displayed.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure an image of a ROI is shown through the clip board and thus it is advantageous in that the user readily recognizes a desired ROI and the details associated with the desired ROI. The user may also be provided with various services including a navigation function associated with a desired ROI through selecting an image of the ROI or selecting a menu associated with the ROI.

The memory may store commands or data which may be received from the processor or other elements for example the input output interface the display and the communication interface or created by the processor or other elements. The memory may include programming modules for example a kernel a middleware an Application Programming Interface API an application or the like. Each of the programming modules described above may be formed of software firmware and hardware or a combination thereof. The memory may store an image of a ROI on the clip board and related location information. The memory may also store a map image for providing a navigation function. The objects clipped or copied according to a clip or copy command are stored in an area called clip board and the memory may have an area for the clip board. The clip board stores the objects until a paste command is input or the objects are deleted from the clip board and visually displays and provides the objects in response to the predetermined command.

The kernel may control or manage system resources for example the bus the processor the memory or the like which are used in performing operations or functions implemented by other programming modules for example the middleware the API or the applications . Furthermore the kernel may provide an interface through which the middleware the API or the applications may access individual component elements of the electronic device to control or manage them.

The middleware may serve as an intermediary such that the API or the application communicate with the kernel to transmit receive data. In regard to task requests received from the applications the middleware may perform a control for the task requests using for example a method of assigning a priority for using the system resources e.g. the bus the processor and the memory of the electronic device to at least one of the applications .

The API is an interface by which the applications controls functions provided from the kernel or the middleware and may include for example at least one interface or function e.g. instructions for file control window control image processing or text control.

The input output interface may transfer a command or data input by a user through an input output device for example a sensor a keyboard or a touch screen to the processor the memory and the communication interface for example through the bus . The input output interface may provide to the processor data associated with an input unit such as a user finger an electronic pen and the like provided through a touch screen.

The input device of the input output interface may include a touch panel a digital pen sensor a key an ultrasonic input device or the like. The touch panel may recognize a touch input based on at least one scheme among for example a capacitive scheme a resistive scheme an infrared scheme and an ultrasonic scheme. The touch panel may further include a control circuit. The capacitive scheme touch panel may recognize physical contact or proximity. The touch panel may further include a tactile layer. In this case the touch panel may provide a user with a tactile reaction. The input output interface may output a command or data received from the processor the memory and the communication interface for example through the bus to an input output device for example a speaker or display .

The display may display various information for example multimedia data or text data to the user. The display may display a screen by dividing the screen into a screen that displays an image and a screen where objects clipped and or copied from the image are disposed or may lay the screen where the clipped and or copied objects are disposed over the screen that displays the image for the display.

The communication interface may connect communication between the electronic device and an external electronic device for example the electronic device or the server . For example the communication interface may be connected to a network through wireless or wired communication to communicate with the external device. The wireless communication may include at least one of for example Wi Fi Bluetooth BT Near Field Communication NFC Global Positioning System GPS and cellular communication for example Long Term Evolution LTE LTE A Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Wideband CDMA WCDMA Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS Wireless Broadband WiBro Global System for Mobile communication GSM and the like . The wired communication may include at least one of for example a Universal Serial Bus USB a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI Recommended Standard 232 RS 232 and a Plain Old Telephone Service POTS .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the network may be a telecommunication network. The communication network may include at least one of a computer network the Internet the Internet of things and a telephone network. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure a protocol for example a transport lay protocol data link layer protocol or a physical layer protocol for communication between the electronic device and the external device may be supported by at least one of the application the application programming interface the middleware the kernel and the communication interface .

Each of the above described elements of the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be formed of one or more components and the name of a corresponding element may vary according to the type of an electronic device. The electronic device may include at least one of the above described elements and may exclude some of the elements or further include other additional elements. Further some of the elements of the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be coupled to form a single entity while performing the same functions as those of the corresponding elements before the coupling.

The term module as used in various embodiments of the present disclosure may mean for example a unit including one of hardware software and firmware or any combination of two or more of them. The module may be interchangeably used with a term such as unit logic logical block component or circuit. The module may be the smallest unit of an integrated component or a part thereof. The module may be the smallest unit that performs one or more functions or a part thereof. The module may be mechanically or electronically implemented. For example the module according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one of an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC chip a Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs and a programmable logic device for performing operations which have been known or are to be developed hereafter.

At least some of the devices e.g. modules or functions thereof or the method e.g. operations according to the present disclosure may be implemented by a command stored in a computer readable storage medium in a programming module form. When the instruction is performed by at least one processor e.g. the processor the at least one processor may perform a function corresponding to the instruction. The computer readable storage medium may be for example the memory . At least some of the programming modules may be implemented e.g. executed by for example the processor . At least some of the programming modules may include for example a module a program a routine a set of instructions or a process for performing one or more functions.

The computer readable recording medium may include magnetic media such as a hard disk a floppy disk and a magnetic tape optical media such as a Compact Disc Read Only Memory CD ROM and a Digital Versatile Disc DVD magneto optical media such as a floptical disk and hardware devices specially configured to store and perform a program instruction for example programming module such as a Read Only Memory ROM a Random Access Memory RAM a flash memory and the like. In addition the program instructions may include high class language codes which can be executed in a computer by using an interpreter as well as machine codes made by a compiler. The aforementioned hardware device may be configured to operate as one or more software modules in order to perform the operation of various embodiments of the present disclosure and vice versa.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure an electronic device includes a display unit for displaying an image a memory having a storage area for a clip board and a controller that executes a control to set a ROI on the image to obtain location information associated with the ROI and to store the obtained location information in the clip board together with an image of the ROI.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the controller may execute a control to display on a predetermined area of the display unit a clip board that stores the obtained location information together with an image of the ROI.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure as the ROI is set based on a closed curve drawn by an input unit on the image the controller may execute a control so as to display the image of the ROI on the predetermined location of the clip board.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the ROI is provided in the smallest circular shape that is circumscribed about the closed curve based on the central coordinates of the closed curve.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the location information of the ROI may be coordinate information that is formed of latitude and longitude which are obtained through comparison using a reduced scale on a map based on the central coordinates of the closed curve and a radius of the circle.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure when another ROI that is stored in advance exists in the clip board the controller may execute a control so as to display on the clip board detailed information including at least one of distance information that is based on the obtained location information and location information of the other ROI stored in advance and route guidance information.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure when another ROI that is stored in advance does not exist in the clip board the controller may execute a control so as to display on the display unit a route guidance screen that shows a route between the obtained location information and a current location of the electronic device.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure when another ROI that is stored in advance exists in the clip board the controller may execute a control so as to display on the display unit a route guidance screen that shows a route between the obtained location information and location information of the other ROI stored in advance.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure when multiple other ROIs stored in advance exist in the clip board the controller may determine a departure point a stopover or a destination based on an order of the ROI and other ROIs stored in advance which is designated by an input unit and may execute route guidance based on the determined departure point the stopover and the destination.

Referring to the electronic device displays an image in operation . The image may be a map image provided from a map application. Alternatively the image may include all images from which a place a location and the like are identifiable such as an image stored in the memory a map image in a web page and the like. While the image is displayed the electronic device may set a ROI in the image in operation . As an example of the methods of setting the ROI illustrates a method of designating a ROI using an input unit.

Referring to a method of designating a ROI on a map image and an operation of clipping and or copying a region in a state in which a map image is displayed on the display is illustrated. A line is drawn on the map image along a route of the input unit and when a closed curve is drawn by the input unit a perforated line may be displayed that indicates the region corresponding to the closed curve is selected. As described above a user may set a ROI by drawing a region of a desired form using the input unit . Alternatively when the user touches an object indicating a place a building and the like for example an icon in the image using the input unit a shape of the icon or a region that encloses the icon may be set to be the ROI.

Subsequently the electronic device may detect the central coordinates of the clipped region may generate the smallest circle that is circumscribed about the clipped region and includes the clipped region and may determine the center of the circle as the center of a ROI. Accordingly the ROI may be set to be a region having a size corresponding to a radius r from the center x0 y0 of the clipped region and the ROI may be set to have a circular shape. Although illustrates a case in which the ROI is set to be a circular shape the ROI may be set to be various figure shapes.

Referring back to the electronic device may obtain location information on a map based on the central coordinates of the ROI in operation . The location information on the map may indicate actual coordinate information such as latitude longitude and the like. The electronic device compares a length of the radius with a reduced scale of the map image that is currently displayed based on the origin x0 y0 and the radius r so as to obtain entire location information of the clipped region based on the origin. Approximate values of latitude and longitude corresponding to the upper side the lower side the left side and the right side from the center may be obtained based on the reduced scale of the map information. When the location information is obtained as described above the electronic device may store the location information together with an image of the ROI in operation . When the image of the ROI is stored the central coordinates and regional coordinates may be stored together.

An image utilizing method based on location information of an image according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include displaying an image setting a ROI on the image obtaining location information associated with the ROI and storing the obtained location information together with an image of the ROI.

The ROI may also be provided in the smallest circular shape that is circumscribed about the closed curve based on the central coordinates of the closed curve.

The location information of the ROI may be coordinate information that is formed of latitude and longitude which are obtained through comparison using a reduced scale of a map based on the central coordinates of the closed curve and a radius of the circle.

According to the image utilizing method based on location information of an image the operation of storing the obtained location information together with the image of the ROI may include displaying a clip board that stores clipped and copied objects and displaying the image of the ROI by moving the image of the ROI to a location of the clip board.

When another ROI that is stored in advance does not exist when the obtained location information is stored together with the image of the ROI a route guidance screen that shows a route between the obtained location information and a current location of the electronic device may be displayed.

When another ROI that is stored in advance exists when the obtained location information is stored together with the image of the ROI a route guidance screen that shows a route between the obtained location information and location information of the other ROI that is stored in advance may be displayed.

When another ROI that is stored in advance exists in the clip board when the obtained location information is stored together with the image of the ROI detailed information including at least one of distance information that is based on the obtained location information and location information of the other ROI stored in advance and route guidance information may be displayed on the clip board.

When multiple other ROIs that are stored in advance exist the image utilizing method based on location information of an image may include designating an order of the ROI and other ROIs stored in advance determining a departure point a stopover and a destination based on the order and executing route guidance based on the determined departure point the stopover and the destination.

A method of obtaining the central coordinates of the closed curve and location information on a map is described below with reference to .

Referring to the clip board application may be executed when a region on a map image is designated by a user using an input unit while a map application is executing. Alternatively the clip board application may be executed when a clip or copy command for the designated region is input. When the clip board application is executed an image of the designated region may be pasted and displayed in the clip board. A coordinate information extracting unit determines a ROI based on the central coordinates of the designated region and obtains the central coordinates of the ROI and a radius of the smallest circle that includes the region. The coordinate information extracting unit matches the ROI to an actual location on a map based on the central coordinates and the radius of the ROI so as to obtain location information associated with the ROI provided in a circular shape.

For example when latitude and longitude at a vertex of the ROI provided in a circular shape is 37.008 100.008 and a radius is 1 cm and 1 cm indicates 500 m in a currently shown map approximate latitude and longitude values at the points located 1 cm to the left and to the right from the origin may be expressed as 37.008 100.001 and 37.008 100.015 . In this manner latitude and longitude values at the points located 1 cm in the upper side and lower side from the origin may be obtained. As a reduced scale becomes larger an error in the calculation of the approximate latitude and longitude values based on the selected region becomes larger. Accordingly when a map is magnified by more than a predetermined maximum magnification an available value may be obtained. When a map is shown to be smaller than a predetermined minimum magnification only latitude and longitude at the origin may be available. Resolution for obtaining latitude and longitude may be set to be accurate based on a degree of magnification or the value may be set by a user.

A positional relationship analyzing unit determines whether location information that is stored in advance exists in a clip board with reference to a clip board storage unit . When existing location information does not exist the positional relationship analyzing unit may analyze a relationship between a current location and location information of the ROI. Accordingly an analysis result processing unit analyzes a place corresponding to the ROI and displays an analysis result including a route from the current location to the place information associated with each location and the like.

Referring to the electronic device may store in a clip board location information associated with a ROI together with an image of the ROI according to a request for storing the ROI in operation . The request for storing the ROI may be generated when a user inputs a predetermined signal such as drawing a desired region through an input unit selecting a desired object or the like while an image related to a place and the like is displayed. When the request for storing the ROI is generated while the place related image is displayed the image of the ROI may be displayed in a predetermined area of the display . For example a clip board may be displayed by being overlaid on the place related image or the place related image may be reduced and the clip board may be displayed to be close to the image.

Referring to after a user draws a desired region as a closed curve on a map image and selects the region a copied image that has an identical shape as the closed curve is moved to a predetermined location of a clip board and displayed as a ROI. An image of the ROI that is stored in the clip board may be displayed as an image in an identical shape as the closed curve in a simplified reduced form or in an icon form. For example the image of the ROI in the clip board may be displayed together with location information of the ROI. Alternatively when the user selects an icon indicating a building in the map image a shape of the icon or a region that encloses the icon may be set to be the ROI and may be stored in the clip board .

Referring back to when the image of the ROI and the location information are stored in the clip board the electronic device may determine whether location information that stored in advance exists in the clip board in operation . When the location information stored in advance does not exist a positional relationship between the location information of the ROI and current location information is analyzed in operation and the analyzed positional relationship information may be displayed in operation .

Referring to an image of a ROI may be displayed in a clip board and a navigation screen that shows a route between a location of the ROI and a current location may be provided in the clip board based on the location information of the ROI. Alternatively when a user input for selecting the image of the ROI in the clip board is generated a navigation application is executed and the navigation screen that shows the route between the location of the ROI and the current location may be provided in a navigation application execution mode. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure when the image of the ROI is selected from the clip board a type of an executable application may be displayed based on the image of the ROI and the location information. As described above by providing a menu that enables the user to select a desired application utility of the image of the ROI may be increased and the image of the ROI may be connected with various services.

Referring back to when the location information stored in advance exists the electronic device may analyze a positional relationship between location information associated with the ROI and location information stored in advance in operation and display an analyzed positional relationship information in operation . The analyzed positional relationship information may be shown to the user through the clip board and alternatively may be provided through execution of a previously set application or an application that is designated by the user.

Referring to a plurality of images of ROIs may be displayed on a clip board and information based on the location information of the ROIs may be provided in the clip board. illustrates an example of a screen that displays information associated with two regions and provides comparison and analysis information and associated with a relative distance a time or temperature difference weather or the like between two regions obtained based on the origin coordinates of the two regions. When a departure point and a destination are determined from among the plurality of ROIs the weather of the destination expected after an estimated time may be displayed instead of the current weather of the destination.

Referring to an example is illustrated in which another region of a map image is designated and is moved to a clip board while a ROI including location information is stored in the clip board. When an image of the region is stored in the clip board location information of the region may be stored together as a ROI . illustrates a case in which a region is designated successively from the map image of or is designated from another map image and is stored in a clip board as a ROI . As shown in selection with respect to a plurality of ROIs may be possible and navigation information associated with the plurality of ROIs may be provided in the clip board.

Referring to a method of determining a departure point a stopover and a destination of location information while objects corresponding to a plurality of ROIs for example images or icons are displayed on a clip board is illustrated. illustrates an individual touch scheme in which a user touches objects of ROIs on the clip board one for each time and a drag scheme in which the user sequentially selects objects of the ROIs while maintaining a touch input so as to designate an order. The individual touch scheme may handwrite a number for an object of each ROI so as to determine an order. Alternatively the drag scheme connects the objects with a single line so as to set a departure point a stopover and a destination at a time.

Referring to the electronic device may display a browser image in association with execution of a web application in operation . The electronic device determines whether a ROI is set on the browser image by an input unit in operation and analyzes web page data in operation when the ROI is set. Subsequently the electronic device may determine whether data corresponding to an address exists in operation and when the data corresponding to the address exists the electronic device may store the address in a clip board together with an image of the ROI in operation . When the data corresponding to the address does not exist the image of the ROI may be stored in the clip board. However according to various embodiments of the present disclosure when the data corresponding to the address does not exist the electronic device may analyze the content of the text in the web page may estimate an address name based on the content of the text and may store the estimated address name together with the image of the ROI. For example the electronic device may display the estimated address name so as to enable a user to set the address.

Referring to a case is illustrated in which an object corresponding to a region is stored in a clip board in response to a clip and or copy command with respect to the region of an image of a web page as opposed to a map. The web page may include the image and text and the electronic device may determine whether data corresponding to an address format exists in the web page. The electronic device may extract information corresponding to the address from among text associated with the image included in web pages. When at least two addresses exist the electronic device may enable a user to set a representative address for the clipped image.

Referring to a web page may include an image region and text regions and . A user designates a region to be clipped from the image region and pastes the clipped region to a location of the clip board . When objects and of a plurality of ROIs exist in the clip board a route guidance screen that shows a route between two ROIs may be provided based on location information of two ROIs. In this instance the navigation function may be executed on the clip board. Alternatively when ROIs for route guidance are selected on the clip board a screen of executing a navigation application may be switched into a whole screen.

Referring to operations through are similar to operations through of and thus detailed descriptions thereof will be omitted. In operations and a scope may be designated based on the central coordinates of a ROI and the scope may be set by a user. The electronic device may determine whether a regional information request exists in operation . When regional information request exists regional information in a scope designated for each category may be displayed in operation . The regional information for each category may be classified based on metadata associated with an image.

Referring to a closed curve drawn by an input unit on a map image a ROI of a predetermined scope including the closed curve may be determined. The electronic device provides the server with information associated with a location of the ROI such as a radius the central coordinates or the like associated with the ROI and may receive regional information for each category. Accordingly a regional information menu which may be provided together with the object of the ROI may be displayed on the clip board .

Referring to a case is illustrated of outputting a route guidance screen showing a route from a current location to a selected region when one of the regional information is selected through a regional information menu provided in a clip board while the clip board is displayed to be close to a map image . Information associated with a ROI may be shown based on regional information and the information may be filtered so that information desired by a user may be provided. The regional information may be determined based on the central coordinates of a clipped region and a radius of a region including the corresponding selected region. The electronic device obtains regional information and transfers the regional information to a map providing server and the map providing server provides the electronic device with information associated with a building a restaurant a shop name or the like included in the received regional information. Accordingly the electronic device may provide various detailed information in response to a regional information request associated with a ROI.

Referring to the hardware device may include at least one processor a Subscriber Identification Module SIM card a memory a communication module a sensor module a user input module a display module an interface an audio codec a camera module a power management module a battery an indicator and a motor .

The processor for example the processor may include one or more Application Processors APs or one or more Communication Processors CPs . The processor may be for example the processor of . Although the AP and the CP are included in the processor in the AP and the CP may be included in different IC packages respectively. The AP and the CP may be included in one IC package.

The AP may drive an operating system or an application program so as to control a multitude of hardware or software component elements connected with the AP and perform processing and calculating of various data including multimedia data. The AP may be embodied as for example a System on Chip SoC . The processor may further include a Graphic Processing Unit GPU not shown .

The CP may manage data links and perform a function of changing communication protocols in communication between electronic devices for example the electronic device including hardware and other electronic devices connected over a network. The CP may be embodied as for example an SoC. The CP may perform at least a part of a multimedia control function. The CP may perform identification and authentication of an electronic device in a communication network by using for example a subscriber identification module for example the SIM card . In addition the CP may provide a user with services such as voice calls video calls text messages packet data or the like.

The CP may control transmission and reception of data of the communication module . In although component elements such as the CP the power management module the memory or the like are illustrated as separate component elements from the AP the AP may be embodied to include at least one for example the CP of the above described component elements.

The AP or the CP may load to a volatile memory commands or data received from at least one of a non volatile memory or other component elements which are connected with the AP or the CP and process the same. In addition the AP or the CP may store in a non volatile memory data that is received from or generated by at least one of the component elements.

The SIM card may be a card embodying a subscriber identification module and may be inserted into a slot formed in a particular portion of the electronic device. The SIM card may include unique identification information for example Integrated Circuit Card IDentifier ICCID or subscriber information for example International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI .

The memory may include an embedded memory or an external memory . The memory may be for example the memory of . The embedded memory may include at least one of a volatile memory for example a Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM a Static RAM SRAM a Synchronous Dynamic RAM SDRAM and the like and a non volatile memory for example a One Time Programmable Read Only Memory OTPROM a Programmable ROM PROM an Erasable and Programmable ROM EPROM an Electrically Erasable and Programmable ROM EEPROM a mask ROM a flash ROM a NAND flash memory a NOR flash memory and the like . The embedded memory may be in a form of a Solid State Drive SSD . The external memory may further include a flash drive for example a Compact Flash CF a Secure Digital SD a Micro Secure Digital Micro SD a Mini Secure Digital Mini SD an extreme Digital xD a memory stick or the like.

The communication module may include a wireless communication module or a Radio Frequency RF module . The communication module may be for example the communication module of . The wireless communication module may include for example WiFi BlueTooth BT a Global Positioning System GPS or a Near Field Communication NFC . For example the wireless communication module may provide a wireless communication function using wireless frequencies. Additionally and alternatively the wireless communication module may include a network interface for example a LAN card or a modem in order to connect the hardware device with a network for example the Internet a Local Area Network LAN a Wire Area Network WAN a telecommunication network a cellular network a satellite network a Plain Old Telephone Service POTS or the like .

The RF module may perform transmission and reception of data for example RF signals or called electromagnetic signals. Although not illustrated the RF module may include for example a transceiver a Power Amp Module PAM a frequency filter a Low Noise Amplifier LNA or the like. The RF module may further include components for example a conductor or a cable for transmitting and receiving electromagnetic waves through a free space in wireless communication.

The sensor module may include at least one of for example a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B an atmospheric pressure sensor C a magnetic sensor D an acceleration sensor E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G a Red Green Blue RGB sensor H a bio sensor I a temperature humidity sensor J an illuminance sensor K an Ultra Violet UV sensor M and the like. The sensor module may measure physical quantities or sense an operation state of the electronic device so as to convert the measured or sensed information to electric signals. Additionally alternatively the sensor module may include for example an E nose sensor not illustrated an electromyography EMG sensor not illustrated an electroencephalogram EEG sensor not illustrated an electrocardiogram ECG sensor not illustrated a fingerprint sensor or the like. The sensor module may further include a control circuit for controlling at least one sensor included in the sensor module .

The user input module may include a touch panel a digital pen sensor a key or an ultrasonic input device . The user input module may be for example the input output interface of . The touch panel may recognize a touch input through at least one of for example a capacitive scheme a resistive scheme an infrared scheme and an ultrasonic scheme. In addition the touch panel may further include a controller not shown . The capacitive scheme is capable of recognizing proximity as well as recognizing a direct touch. The touch panel may further include a tactile layer. In this case the touch panel may provide a tactile reaction to a user.

The digital pen sensor may be embodied for example using a method identical or similar to a method of receiving a touch input of a user or using a separate recognition sheet. A keypad or touch key may be used as the key . The ultrasonic or ultrasonic input device inputs an ultrasonic signal through a pen that generates an ultrasonic signal and the electronic device senses acoustic wave through a microphone for example the microphone and determines data. In this instance wireless recognition is available. The hardware device may receive a user input from an external device for example a network a computer or the server of that is connected with the hardware device using the communication module .

The display module may include a panel or a hologram . The display module may be for example the display of . The panel may be for example a Liquid Crystal Display LCD Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diode AM OLED or the like. The panel may be embodied to be for example flexible transparent or wearable. The panel may be also configured as one module together with the touch panel . The hologram may display 3D images in the air by using interference of light. The display module may further include a control circuit for controlling the panel or the hologram .

The interface may include for example a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI a Universal Serial Bus USB a projector or a D subminiature D sub . Additionally or alternatively the interface may include for example a Secure Digital SD Multi Media Card MMC not shown or an Infrared Data Association IrDA not shown .

The audio codec may convert voices to electric signals and vice versa. The audio codec may convert voice information input or output through for example a speaker a receiver an earphone the microphone or the like.

The camera module is a device for photographing an image and a video. The camera module may include one or more image sensors for example a front lens or a back lens an Image Signal Processor ISP not illustrated or a flash LED not illustrated .

The power management module may manage power of the hardware device . Although not illustrated the power managing module may include for example a Power Management Integrated Circuit PMIC a charger Integrated Circuit IC or a battery fuel gauge.

The PMIC may be mounted to for example an integrated circuit or an SoC semiconductor. Charging methods may be classified into a wired charging method and a wireless charging method. The charger IC may charge a battery and prevent over voltage or over current from flowing from a charger. The charger IC may include a charger IC for at least one of the wired charging method and the wireless charging method. A magnetic resonance scheme a magnetic induction scheme or an electromagnetic scheme may be exemplified as the wireless charging method and an additional circuit for wireless charging such as a coil loop circuit a resonance circuit a rectifier circuit and the like may be added.

The battery fuel gauge may measure for example a remaining quantity of the battery or a voltage a current or a temperature during the charging. The battery may generate and supply power and may be for example a rechargeable battery.

The indicator may display a predetermined state for example a boot up state a message state or a charging state of the entirety or a part for example the AP of the hardware device . The motor may convert an electrical signal to a mechanical vibration. The processor may control the sensor module .

Although not illustrated the hardware device may include a processing device for example a GPU for supporting a mobile TV. The processing device for supporting the mobile TV may process for example media data according to a standard of Digital Multimedia Broadcasting DMB Digital Video Broadcasting DVB media flow or the like.

The term module as used in various embodiments of the present disclosure may mean for example a unit including one of hardware software and firmware or any combination of two or more of them. The module may be interchangeably used with a term such as unit logic logical block component or circuit. The module may be the smallest unit of an integrated component or a part thereof. The module may be the smallest unit that performs one or more functions or a part thereof. The module may be mechanically or electronically implemented. For example the module according to the present disclosure may include at least one of an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC chip a Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGA and a programmable logic device for performing operations which has been known or are to be developed hereinafter.

It may be appreciated that the embodiments of the present disclosure can be implemented in software hardware or a combination thereof. Any such software may be stored for example in a volatile or non volatile storage device such as a ROM a memory such as a RAM a memory chip a memory device or a memory IC or a recordable optical or magnetic medium such as a CD a DVD a magnetic disk or a magnetic tape regardless of its ability to be erased or its ability to be re recorded. It is appreciated that the storage unit included in the electronic device is one example of the machine readable storage media suitable for storing a program or programs including commands for implementing various embodiments of the present disclosure. Accordingly the present disclosure includes a program that includes a code for implementing an apparatus or a method defined in any claim in the present specification and a machine readable storage medium that stores such a program.

The electronic device can receive the program from a program providing apparatus connected to the device wirelessly or through a wire and store the received program. The program providing apparatus may include a program including instructions which enable the electronic device to perform a method of utilizing an image containing location information a memory for storing information required for the method of utilizing an image containing location information a communication unit for performing wired or wireless communication with the electronic device and a controller for transmitting the corresponding program to the electronic device automatically or at the request of the electronic device.

While the present disclosure has been shown and described with reference to various embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

