---

title: Nanostructure diffraction gratings for integrated spectroscopy and sensing
abstract: The present disclosure pertains to metal or dielectric nanostructures of the subwavelength scale within the grating lines of optical diffraction gratings. The nanostructures have surface plasmon resonances or non-plasmon optical resonances. A linear photodetector array is used to capture the resonance spectra from one of the diffraction orders. The combined nanostructure super-grating and photodetector array eliminates the use of external optical spectrometers for measuring surface plasmon or optical resonance frequency shift caused by the presence of chemical and biological agents. The nanostructure super-gratings can be used for building integrated surface enhanced Raman scattering (SERS) spectrometers. The nanostructures within the diffraction grating lines enhance Raman scattering signal light while the diffraction grating pattern of the nanostructures diffracts Raman scattering light to different directions of propagation according to their wavelengths. Therefore, the nanostructure super-gratings allows for the use of a photodetector array to capture the surface enhanced Raman scattering spectra.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09404861&OS=09404861&RS=09404861
owner: BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA, FO
number: 09404861
owner_city: Huntsville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150209
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 716 122 entitled Nanostructure Diffraction Gratings for Integrated Spectroscopy and Sensing and filed on Dec. 15 2012 which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under contract NNX07 AL52A awarded by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASA and contract NSF 0814103 awarded by the National Science Foundation NSF . The Government has certain rights in the invention.

Spectroscopy and most spectroscopy based chemical sensing techniques rely on spectrometers to perform spectral measurement of optical radiations. One type of optical spectrometer relies on diffraction gratings to separate spectral frequency components of radiations. Diffraction gratings often comprise periodically arranged metal or dielectric lines on transparent substrates which serve as supporting materials. Optical radiations of different frequencies can be spatially separated and measured by using photodetector arrays.

The advancement of nanotechnology has created a new class of chemical and biological sensors that rely on the resonance shift of metal and dielectric nanostructure devices as the sensing transduction mechanism. One well investigated nanostructure optical resonance type is localized surface plasmon resonance LSPR which occurs in metal nanostructures. LSPR is the collective oscillation of free electrons known as surface plasmons in metal nanostructures. At a certain frequency the plasmons resonate with incident light resulting in strongly enhanced electromagnetic field near the nanostructure surface. Resonance frequencies in nanostructures change when chemical or biochemical agents bind onto on surface of the nanostructure. Traditionally optical spectrometers are used to perform the spectral measurements for determining the resonance frequency shift. One type of chemical sensor relies on measurement of the resonance frequency change using optical spectrometers.

The disclosure described herein is generally directed to nanostructures in the sub wavelength scale within the grating lines of diffraction gratings. The nanostructures within the grating lines have designed surface plasmon resonances for metallic nanostructures or optical resonances for dielectric nanostructures. The resonance frequencies shift as the nanostructure surfaces interact with chemical and biological agents of interest. Measurement of surface plasmon resonance or optical resonance is accomplished by measuring either the spectrum of the reflected light or the spectrum of transmitted light using optical spectrometers. The presently disclosed device and method eliminates the use of external optical spectrometers when measuring the resonance shift caused by the presence of chemical and biological agents. The present disclosure describes the measurement of resonance frequency and the simultaneous shift when utilizing the combination of a nanostructure diffraction grating and a photodetector array.

The grating periods of diffraction gratings are larger than the wavelengths to be measured typically from several to several hundred times of the longest wavelength to be measured. According to the diffraction theory different spectral components of radiation propagate to different directions following the equation 

The resonance frequencies in metal nanostructures are generally measured by using an optical spectrometer containing a diffraction grating to measure the reflection or the transmission from the nanostructure device. Traditional optical diffraction gratings are comprised of metal or dielectric lines placed in periodic patterns with the width greater than the wavelength of the light to be measured. The grating lines are arranged periodically on transparent substrates.

In contrast the present disclosure illustrates nanostructures of the subwavelength scale within the grating lines of a traditional diffraction grating. The nanostructures within the grating lines have surface plasmon resonances or non plasmon optical resonances. The resonance frequencies shift as the nanostructure surfaces interact with chemical and biological agents to be measured. The modified resonance spectra are angularly and spatially separated by the diffraction grating. The nanostructures have feature sizes smaller than the wavelengths of radiations. These nanostructure diffraction gratings enhance the capability for spectral measurements and also significantly reduce the physical dimension size of the sensor instruments.

The grating comprises a series of diffraction grating lines . Each grating line consists of an array of subwavelength sized nanoholes located within the grating lines . Although the grating in illustrates an array of nanoholes it is to be understood that these nanostructures may take the form of any shape whether recessed or bored into the grating surface i.e. a hole or a trench or fixed upon and protruding from the grating surface i.e. a raised circle line or square . By way of example the nanostructure can have circular square rectangular elliptical or triangular shapes provided that the dimensions of the shape are smaller than the wavelengths to be measured. Each diffraction grating line has a finite number of nanoholes in one dimension and infinite practically very large number of nanoholes in another dimension. The nanohole array grating lines are arranged periodically with a diffraction grating period of . The diffraction grating period is larger than the wavelengths being measured typically several times of the longest wavelength to be measured. This produces angularly dispersed diffractions. Different wavelengths are diffracted to different directions following the diffraction grating theory described by equation 1 for the normal incidence of light. In contrast the width of nanoholes is sized smaller than the wavelength of the incident light thus producing a surface plasmon resonance. Diffraction orders are generated when light is incident to the grating . The diffracted radiations are angularly dispersed in space due to the diffraction i.e. spectral components of different wavelengths propagate to different directions in space. A photodetector array is used to capture the spectral components of diffracted light.

In the embodiment described above in reference to the nanostructures or nanoholes may be randomly arranged. In an additional embodiment the nanostructures are arranged in a repeating periodic fashion herein referred to as a period . Referring again to the nanoholes may be positioned so as to provide a period which is smaller than the wavelengths of diffracted light to be measured. As described above the diffraction grating lines have a period which is larger than the wavelength of the diffracted light to be measured. In the embodiment illustrated in the small period is arranged within the large period . The large grating period is several times the size of the small period .

In an additional embodiment of the present disclosure illustrates a dual periodic nanoslit array . The nanoslits comprise trenches or grooves etched into the grating surface . Nanoslits are arranged periodically with a large period above the wavelength of interest. The large period also referred to as a super period is created by periodically removing nanoslits from a periodic nanoslit array . The super period functions as a diffraction grating period which is larger than the wavelength of interest. Because of the super period structure surface plasmon radiations from the nanostructure arrays can be measured from the non zeroth order diffractions i.e. the first order diffraction . Due to the intrinsic angular dispersion of diffractions the resonance spectrum can be measured with a linear photodetector array or CCD without using an external optical spectrometer.

The transmission and diffraction from the super period nanostructure can be obtained by solving Maxwell s equations. illustrates the calculated spectra of the zero order transmission and the first order diffraction from the super period gold nanostructure upon the normal incidence with the incident polarization perpendicular to the metal nanoslits . The sharp transmission peak at 0.612 micron wavelength corresponds to the surface plasmon resonance that causes the enhanced zeroth order transmission dashed line in the device. illustrates that the spectral peak wavelength in the first order diffraction spectrum solid line is about the same wavelength of the spectral peak of the zeroth order transmission. An additional surface plasmon resonance in the device is observed in the zeroth order transmission and in the first order diffraction at 0.762 micron wavelength . This resonance does not exist in the regular period gold nanoslit array. It is due to the surface plasmon resonance in the large period grating . By using a linear photodetector array the resonances in the nanostructure device can be obtained by measuring the spatially and spectrally dispersed first order diffraction from the nanostructure grating device. The super period metal nanoslit array itself supports localized surface plasmon resonance and performs the spectral analysis simultaneously.

In an additional embodiment any of the above described nanostructures may be utilized to study molecular binding interactions between free analyte molecules in solution and probe molecules which are linked to or immobilized on to the nanostructure grating surface. This embodiment contemplates one or more biomolecules attached to the nanostructure grating surface. For the purposed of this disclosure biomolecules include but are not limited to single and double stranded nucleic acids oligonucleotides proteins and protein fragments amino acids peptides antibodies antigens viruses virus fragments hormones and small molecules such as drugs. The biomolecules may be attached directly to the grating. Alternatively or in addition the biomolecules may be attached to the grating via a number of chemical linker and spacer moieties. The attached biomolecules are then exposed to a test sample containing additional biomolecules analytes in free solution. Binding of an analyte to an immobilized biomolecule attached to the nanostructure grating will cause changes in the local index of refraction thus changing the resonance frequencies of the local surface plasmons. This shift of the local plasmon resonance frequency can be easily detected by the photodetector array i.e. the CCD . The measurement of this optical resonance shift identifies the existence of chemical or biological agents on the nanostructure surface . This is a direct method of detection which avoids the drawbacks of labels. This elimination of the need for labeling is important for at least two reasons. First it eliminates the need to chemically modify the biomolecule and the concomitant concern that the label might alter or modify the biomolecule s activity or behavior. Second biomolecules in complex mixtures such as nuclear extracts can be studied directly without having to purify them and attempt to label them in the mixture.

In an additional embodiment of the disclosure any of the presently disclosed nanoslit arrays may be utilized to observe the time dependent binding interaction between two biomolecules. The kinetics of molecular binding events may be studied by measuring the change of the local plasmon resonance frequency over time. When an analyte with high affinity to the immobilized biomolecule is introduced binding events can be observed by monitoring the shift of the resonance frequency. An initial rapid change of the local plasmon resonance frequency can be observed as analyte begins to bind to the many available binding sites i.e. attached biomolecules . While sample analyte is continually delivered to the nanostructure grating analyte molecules continue to bind thus lowering the available number of binding sites attached biomolecules . The shift of the local plasmon and optical resonance frequency then levels off as the system reached equilibrium.

In an alternate embodiment the present invention is directed to integrated surface enhanced Raman scattering spectroscopy SERS measurement based on nanostructure metal or dielectric diffraction gratings. The integrated SERS spectrometers rely on patterned nanostructure diffraction gratings. The patterned nanostructure diffraction gratings have two functions 1 the nanostructures within the diffraction grating lines enhance the Raman scattering light 2 the diffraction grating pattern of the patterned nanostructures diffracts Raman scattering light to different directions of propagation according to their wavelengths. A linear photodetector array is used to capture the spectra of the Raman scattering light because of the angular dispersion of the diffracted Raman scattering light.

Raman scattering is a spectroscopic technique used to observe vibrational rotational and other low frequency modes in molecules. It relies on inelastic scattering or Raman scattering of monochromatic light usually a laser in the visible infrared or ultraviolet range. The laser light interacts with molecular vibration modes other excitations in the system resulting in the energy of the photons being shifted up or down. The shift in energy gives information about the vibrational modes in the system. Typically a sample is illuminated with a laser beam. Raman scattering light from the illuminated spot is collected with a lens and sent to an optical spectrometer. Scattered light at the wavelength of the excitation laser is filtered out with a rejection optical notch filter while the rest of the collected light is measured by an optical spectrometer.

The presently disclosed SERS spectrometer and the accompanying nanostructures may be used to identify particular biological and chemical agents. Each molecule has a unique Raman scattering spectral signature. Measurement of this shift can be used to identify specific molecules or analytes. Specifically the nanostructure is utilized in an integrated surface enhanced Raman scattering spectrometer. Surface enhanced Raman scattering spectroscopy is a label free detection technique that reveals molecular spectral signatures. SERS is a powerful sensing technique that has many applications in material analysis and sensing.

Spontaneous Raman scattering is typically very weak and as a result the main difficulty of Raman spectroscopy is separating the Raman scattered light from the intense Rayleigh scattered laser light. As a result narrow spectral band rejection optical filters are needed to block the Rayleigh scattered light of the same wavelength of the excitation laser before the Raman scattering signals are collected by spectrometers.

A traditional optical setup for Raman scattering spectroscopy measurement is illustrated in . A laser is focused by a focal objective lens . The narrow bandwidth laser is used to excite chemical or biological molecules on a nanostructured metal surface to generate surface enhanced Raman scattering light. The nanostructure comprises a substrate layer composed of a transparent material for example glass. The nanostructure surface layer contains metal nanostructures periodic or random on the surface.

Referring again to the Raman scattering light produced by the laser have Raman spectra which are uniquely determined by the molecules. Raman scattering light is directed through a second lens filtered through an optical rejection notch filter focused with a third lens collected and sent to an optical spectrometer . The optical rejection filter is used to reject the strong scattered light of the same wavelength as the excitation laser light . Because of the need for the optical rejection filters to remove incident laser light current surface enhanced Raman spectrometers are expensive bulky and mainly used in laboratory environments.

The presently disclosed integrated SERS spectrometer comprising a patterned nanostructure diffraction grating is schematically illustrated in . A narrow line width laser is incident to the grating containing patterned metal nanostructures nanodots nanoholes nanoslits etc. . In one embodiment the grating is comprised of metal structures and produces localized surface plasmon resonances which enhance Raman scattering. In this embodiment the grating layer comprises of a planar metal such as gold or silver or a dielectric material. Suitable metal surfaces in accordance with the present disclosure include various noble metals e.g. gold silver platinum as well base metals such as copper aluminum chromium and also various metal alloys etc. The metal may be provided in the form of a film preferably a thin film. In an additional embodiment the grating is made from non metal material which produces local optical resonances which enhance light matter interactions to produce large Raman scattering signal. One example of a non metal dielectric optical resonance grating is a guided mode resonance structure that produces strongly enhanced near optical field which enhances the Raman scattering signal. In one embodiment the nanostructures comprise periodic nanoholes . It is to be understood that the use of nanoholes is merely exemplary and the repeating nanostructures may comprise the form of slits or any other repeating raised shape such as raised circles or squares. The nanoholes are arranged in a periodic repeating fashion.

The excitation laser excites the localized resonance localized surface plasmon resonance or other localize optical resonance of the nanostructures when the laser frequency is tuned close to the resonance frequency. The localized optical resonance creates a significantly enhanced optical field near the surface of the nanostructures . The highly confined photons interact with the molecules near the nanostructure surface and cause the enhanced Raman scattering with frequency shifts accordingly to the structure of any bound molecules. Because of the patterned diffraction grating non zeroth order diffractions may be produced. The shifted Raman scattering light propagates in different directions according to their wavelengths and the patterned grating period. Raman scattering spectra can be captured with a linear photodetector array to measure the angularly dispersed diffraction. The excitation laser light and the Raman scattering light are separated in different directions in non zero order diffractions because they are at different wavelengths. A linear photodetector array is used to capture the spatially dispersed surface enhanced Raman scattering signal light . No optical rejection filters are required because the Raman excitation laser propagates into a direction different from the diffractions of the Raman scattering light propagation . As opposed to traditional Raman spectrometers the presently disclosed Raman sensor does not need optical rejection filters to block the Raman excitation laser.

The spectral resolution of the presently disclosed integrated Raman spectroscopic sensors is dependent upon the power of the angular dispersion the size of the photodetector pixel and the distance between the photodetector array and the patterned nanostructure grating . The angular dispersion of the patterned nanostructure SERS spectrometer may be derived from the following equation 

The presently disclosed integrated Raman spectrometer sensor may utilize any of the previously described nanostructure gratings specifically those described with reference to . The Raman spectrometer sensors may employ arrays with nanostructures formed as nanoholes nano dots nano apertures or nanoslits with nanostructure feature sizes smaller than the wavelength of light to be measured. In addition nanostructures may also be formed as slits dashes or other inwardly protruding shapes or as any outwardly projecting structures fixed to the grating surfaces.

A super period nanoslit grating made in a thin gold film on a quartz wafer surface was fabricated by use of a standard e beam lithography process. A 2 nm thick chromium adhesion layer and a 60 nm gold film layer were sputtered onto a quartz substrate using the magnetron DC sputtering technique. A 200 nm electron beam resist layer was then deposited on top of the gold film by spin coating. The nanoslit pattern was patterned in the e beam resist layer using the e beam lithography and then developed with an e beam resist developer. After development reactive ion etching was utilized to transfer the e beam resist pattern to the gold film followed by the removal of the e beam resist. shows the SEM picture of the fabricated super period nanoslits. The nanoslit width is 140 nm in the 60 nm thick gold film. The small nanoslits period is 420 nm while the large period is 2100 nm.

The nanostructure array was tested with a broadband coherent light source. The broadband light source is a super continuum broadband laser with a spectrum range of 500 nm to 2400 nm wavelength. At normal incidence the angular dispersion of the first order diffraction is measured with a CCD. The polarization of the incident light is perpendicular to the metal nanoslits so that localized surface plasmon resonance can be excited. shows the angularly dispersed first order diffraction optical intensity distribution captured by the CCD a with air on the surface b with methanol liquid on the surface and c with acetone liquid on the surface. The horizontal and vertical numerical numbers in the figure represent the pixels on the CCD.

The correspondence between the wavelengths and the pixels on the CCD must first be calculated in order to obtain the surface plasmon resonance spectrum. For the first order diffraction at the normal incidence the diffraction angle is related with the wavelength and the super grating period P as

By measuring the diffraction angle of a Helium Neon HeNe laser at 632.8 nm the spectrometer setup can be calibrated to find the correspondence between the wavelengths and pixels on the CCD. Once the correspondence between the wavelengths and the pixels on the CCD is found one may plot the surface plasmon resonance measured in the first order diffraction vs. the wavelength.

Methanol and acetone with the refractive index of 1.3284 and 1.3586 respectively were used to test the integrated surface plasmon chemical sensor. shows the zeroth order transmission spectra from the device in the air A and after application of methanol B and acetone C onto the device surface. Acetone was applied after the measurement with methanol was complete and the methanol was completely vaporized. The zeroth order transmission spectra in were measured using a commercial optical spectrometer. shows the first order diffraction spectra measured with the super period nanoslits sensor when 1 the device was exposed to the air A 2 methanol solution is applied on the device surface B and 3 acetone solution is applied on the nanoslits surface C . The arbitrary unit used for the first order diffraction signal in corresponds to the intensity levels measured by the CCD. It can be seen that the surface plasmon resonance in the super period nanoslits at the wavelength of 0.616 micron can be captured by the CCD in the first order diffraction. The resonance wavelength shifts from 0.616 micron in the air to 0.637 micron when methanol is applied and shifts to 0.646 micron when acetone is applied later. The small difference of resonance wavelengths measured with the external optical spectrometer and the integrated spectral sensor is within the uncertainty range of the external optical spectrometer. The spectral resolution of the commercial optical spectrometer used in the experiment is 2.0 nm. The spectral resolution of the integrated surface plasmon sensor is 0.7 nm calculated from the angular dispersion of the super period grating at 0.615 micron wavelength the pixel size 5.6 micron on the CCD and the distance 14.5 mm between the nanoslit device and the CCD.

Significantly the demonstrated new surface plasmon sensor does not rely on an external optical spectrometer to measure the surface plasmon resonance and the resonance shift. The super period metal nanoslit array itself supports localized surface plasmon resonance and performs the spectral analysis simultaneously.

A super period nanohole array device was fabricated in a 50 nm thick gold film on a quartz wafer with a standard e beam lithography patterning and reactive ion etching process. This device is illustrated in . The device comprises a small nanohole array period p and a large grating period P. The large grating period P is five times of the small period p. The super period nanoholes have a small period of 420 nm and a super grating period of 2100 nm. The SEM picture of the e beam lithography patterned super period metal nanohole grating is shown in . The diameter of the nanoholes in the array is approximately 140 nm.

The zeroth order light transmission and the first order diffraction from the device were calculated with the normal light incidence. The polarization of the incident light is along the effective nanohole array grating lines which is normal to the direction of diffractions. Calculations were carried out using a finite difference time domain FDTD software code. shows the calculated zero order transmission spectrum dashed line curve and the first order diffraction spectrum solid curve from the super period nanohole array device. It can be seen that two plasmon resonance modes are excited in the device. The resonance at the longer wavelength corresponds to the tightly confined surface plasmon mode. The resonance at the shorter wavelength corresponds to the weakly confined surface plasmon mode. illustrates that the zeroth order transmission peak due to the tightly confined plasmon resonance mode is at 760.5 nm wavelength and the first order diffraction peak due to the same plasmon resonance mode is at 750.5 nm wavelength.

The red shift of the zeroth order transmission peak wavelength from the near field resonance wavelength is due to the interference between the surface plasmon resonance radiations and the directly transmitted light through the nanohole thin metal film. A significant amount of light can transmit through a 50 nm gold film. The near field is strong due to the localized surface plasmon resonance. Therefore the near field resonance wavelength is primarily determined by the local surface plasmon resonance. The far field diffractions either the first order or higher orders avoid the interference between the surface plasmon radiations and the transmission near the nanohole structure metal film. Therefore the resonance in diffractions is directly related to the near field resonance.

The super period nanohole array device was measured with a super continuum broadband laser source. The excitation light was normally incident from the substrate with the polarization parallel to the nanohole effective grating lines. A CCD was used to capture the angularly dispersed intensity distribution of the first order diffraction from the nanohole grating. shows the spatially dispersed first order diffraction intensity distribution when different liquid chemicals were applied to the device surface. A calibration is needed to obtain the correspondence between the CCD pixels and the wavelengths and to calculate the first order diffraction spectrum. A HeNe laser of 632.8 nm wavelength was used to calibrate the measurement setup. The HeNe laser was aligned to propagate in the same direction as the broadband laser. The pixel that corresponds to 632.8 nm wavelength on the CCD was first identified. Once the pixel corresponding to 632.8 nm wavelength is known the correspondence between all pixels on the CCD and wavelengths can be obtained by using the diffraction equation

The surface plasmon resonance spectrometer sensor can measure surface plasmon resonance from the spatially dispersed first order diffraction with a single shot CCD image capture. Surface plasmon resonance spectrometers based on the metal nanostructure gratings can perform the functions of surface plasmon resonance sensing and resonance spectral measurements simultaneously.

