---

title: Predicting the future state of a mobile device user
abstract: In one embodiment, a method includes receiving first data indicating a current usage of a mobile device by a user. The method includes accessing second data associated with past user states of the user, where each user state corresponds to a temporal, spatial, or modal accessibility of the user. A future user state of the user is determined based on a weighted set of predictor functions, each predictor function comprising a machine-learned algorithm for a particular user state. The probability of each user state is based on past user states of the second data, wherein each past user state is weighted by a decay factor based on the corresponding time. One of the user states is selected as the future user state, and the operation of the mobile device is adapted at a future time to account for that future user state.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09461902&OS=09461902&RS=09461902
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09461902
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151014
---
This application is a continuation under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 656 531 filed 19 Oct. 2012 which is incorporated herein by reference.

A mobile device such as a smartphone tablet computer or laptop computer may include functionality for determining its location direction or orientation such as a Global Positioning System GPS receiver compass or gyroscope. Such a device may also include functionality for wireless communication such as BLUETOOTH communication near field communication NFC or infrared IR communication or communication with a wireless local area networks WLANs or cellular telephone network. Such a device may also include one or more cameras scanners touchscreens microphones or speakers. Mobile devices may also execute software applications such as games web browsers or social networking applications. With social networking applications users may connect communicate and share information with other users in their social networks.

Particular embodiments enable a mobile device to predict a future state of a user of that mobile device. In practice a mobile device logs information such as the local time reported by the device the location of the device or the network connectivity of the device and cross references that information against historical data to predict a future state of the user of the device. In one embodiment the mobile device user is a user of a social network and the historical data is drawn from that user s social graph data. Based on a predicted future user state the mobile device alters its behavior to better meet the future needs or requirements of the user.

In some embodiments the predicted future user state of the mobile device user can be that the user is commuting to work that the user is at home that the user is at work that the user is having dinner with friends that the users is in a public social setting that the user is in a foreign country or that the user will be connected via a particular telecommunications network. The mobile device uses this predicted state to meet the needs of the user. The mobile device may cache new messages until the user has arrived at her predicted destination. Alternatively the mobile device may automatically launch a software application related to the restaurant the user is dining at. In particular embodiments the mobile device may request lower bandwidth services while it is predicted to be connected to a particular telecommunications network. This allows the mobile device to automatically tailor operation to the user s activities.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable network . As an example and not by way of limitation one or more portions of network may include an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a virtual private network VPN a local area network LAN a wireless LAN WLAN a wide area network WAN a wireless WAN WWAN a metropolitan area network MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN a cellular telephone network or a combination of two or more of these. Network may include one or more networks .

Links may connect client system social networking system and third party system to communication network or to each other. This disclosure contemplates any suitable links . In particular embodiments one or more links include one or more wireline such as for example Digital Subscriber Line DSL or Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification DOCSIS wireless such as for example Wi Fi or Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX or optical such as for example Synchronous Optical Network SONET or Synchronous Digital Hierarchy SDH links. In particular embodiments one or more links each include an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a WWAN a MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the PSTN a cellular technology based network a satellite communications technology based network another link or a combination of two or more such links . Links need not necessarily be the same throughout network environment . One or more first links may differ in one or more respects from one or more second links .

In particular embodiments client system may be an electronic device including hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components and capable of carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by client system . As an example and not by way of limitation a client system may include a computer system such as a desktop computer notebook or laptop computer netbook a tablet computer e book reader GPS device camera personal digital assistant PDA handheld electronic device cellular telephone smartphone other suitable electronic device or any suitable combination thereof. This disclosure contemplates any suitable client systems . A client system may enable a network user at client system to access network . A client system may enable its user to communicate with other users at other client systems .

In particular embodiments client system may include a web browser such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER GOOGLE CHROME or MOZILLA FIREFOX and may have one or more add ons plug ins or other extensions such as TOOLBAR or YAHOO TOOLBAR. A user at client system may enter a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other address directing the web browser to a particular server such as server or a server associated with a third party system and the web browser may generate a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP request and communicate the HTTP request to server. The server may accept the HTTP request and communicate to client system one or more Hyper Text Markup Language HTML files responsive to the HTTP request. Client system may render a webpage based on the HTML files from the server for presentation to the user. This disclosure contemplates any suitable webpage files. As an example and not by way of limitation webpages may render from HTML files Extensible Hyper Text Markup Language XHTML files or Extensible Markup Language XML files according to particular needs. Such pages may also execute scripts such as for example and without limitation those written in JAVASCRIPT JAVA MICROSOFT SILVERLIGHT combinations of markup language and scripts such as AJAX Asynchronous JAVASCRIPT and XML and the like. Herein reference to a webpage encompasses one or more corresponding webpage files which a browser may use to render the webpage and vice versa where appropriate.

In particular embodiments social networking system may be a network addressable computing system that can host an online social network. Social networking system may generate store receive and transmit social networking data such as for example user profile data concept profile data social graph information or other suitable data related to the online social network. Social networking system may be accessed by the other components of network environment either directly or via network . In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more servers . Each server may be a unitary server or a distributed server spanning multiple computers or multiple datacenters. Servers may be of various types such as for example and without limitation web server news server mail server message server advertising server file server application server exchange server database server proxy server another server suitable for performing functions or processes described herein or any combination thereof. In particular embodiments each server may include hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by server . In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more data stores . Data stores may be used to store various types of information. In particular embodiments the information stored in data stores may be organized according to specific data structures. In particular embodiments each data store may be a relational database. Particular embodiments may provide interfaces that enable a client system a social networking system or a third party system to manage retrieve modify add or delete the information stored in data store .

In particular embodiments social networking system may store one or more social graphs in one or more data stores . In particular embodiments a social graph may include multiple nodes which may include multiple user nodes each corresponding to a particular user or multiple concept nodes each corresponding to a particular concept and multiple edges connecting the nodes. Social networking system may provide users of the online social network the ability to communicate and interact with other users. In particular embodiments users may join the online social network via social networking system and then add connections i.e. relationships to a number of other users of social networking system whom they want to be connected to. Herein the term friend may refer to any other user of social networking system with whom a user has formed a connection association or relationship via social networking system .

In particular embodiments social networking system may provide users with the ability to take actions on various types of items or objects supported by social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation the items and objects may include groups or social networks to which users of social networking system may belong events or calendar entries in which a user might be interested computer based applications that a user may use transactions that allow users to buy or sell items via the service interactions with advertisements that a user may perform or other suitable items or objects. A user may interact with anything that is capable of being represented in social networking system or by an external system of third party system which is separate from social networking system and coupled to social networking system via a network .

In particular embodiments social networking system may be capable of linking a variety of entities. As an example and not by way of limitation social networking system may enable users to interact with each other as well as receive content from third party systems or other entities or to allow users to interact with these entities through an application programming interfaces API or other communication channels.

In particular embodiments a third party system may include one or more types of servers one or more data stores one or more interfaces including but not limited to APIs one or more web services one or more content sources one or more networks or any other suitable components e.g. that servers may communicate with. A third party system may be operated by a different entity from an entity operating social networking system . In particular embodiments however social networking system and third party systems may operate in conjunction with each other to provide social networking services to users of social networking system or third party systems . In this sense social networking system may provide a platform or backbone which other systems such as third party systems may use to provide social networking services and functionality to users across the Internet.

In particular embodiments a third party system may include a third party content object provider. A third party content object provider may include one or more sources of content objects which may be communicated to a client system . As an example and not by way of limitation content objects may include information regarding things or activities of interest to the user such as for example movie show times movie reviews restaurant reviews restaurant menus product information and reviews or other suitable information. As another example and not by way of limitation content objects may include incentive content objects such as coupons discount tickets gift certificates or other suitable incentive objects.

In particular embodiments social networking system also includes user generated content objects which may enhance a user s interactions with social networking system . User generated content may include anything a user can add upload send or post to social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation a user communicates posts to social networking system from a client system . Posts may include data such as status updates or other textual data location information photos videos links music or other similar data or media. Content may also be added to social networking system by a third party through a communication channel such as a newsfeed or stream.

In particular embodiments social networking system may include a variety of servers sub systems programs modules logs and data stores . In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more of the following a web server action logger API request server relevance and ranking engine content object classifier notification controller action log third party content object exposure log inference module authorization privacy server search module ad targeting module user interface module user profile store connection store third party content store or location store. Social networking system may also include suitable components such as network interfaces security mechanisms load balancers failover servers management and network operations consoles other suitable components or any suitable combination thereof. In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more user profile stores for storing user profiles. A user profile may include for example biographic information demographic information behavioral information social information or other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history hobbies or preferences interests affinities or location. Interest information may include interests related to one or more categories. Categories may be general or specific. As an example and not by way of limitation if a user likes an article about a brand of shoes the category may be the brand or the general category of shoes or clothing. A connection store may be used for storing connection information about users. The connection information may indicate users who have similar or common work experience group memberships hobbies educational history or are in any way related or share common attributes. The connection information may also include user defined connections between different users and content both internal and external . A web server may be used for linking social networking system to one or more client systems or one or more third party system via network . The web server may include a mail server or other messaging functionality for receiving and routing messages between social networking system and one or more client systems . An API request server may allow a third party system to access information from social networking system by calling one or more APIs. An action logger may be used to receive communications from a web server about a user s actions on or off social networking system . In conjunction with the action log a third party content object log may be maintained of user exposures to third party content objects. A notification controller may provide information regarding content objects to a client system . Information may be pushed to a client system as notifications or information may be pulled from client system responsive to a request received from client system . Authorization servers may be used to enforce one or more privacy settings of the users of social networking system . A privacy setting of a user determines how particular information associated with a user can be shared. The authorization server may allow users to opt in or opt out of having their actions logged by social networking system or shared with other systems e.g. third party system such as for example by setting appropriate privacy settings. Third party content object stores may be used to store content objects received from third parties such as a third party system . Location stores may be used for storing location information received from client systems associated with users. Ad pricing modules may combine social information the current time location information or other suitable information to provide relevant advertisements in the form of notifications to a user.

A geo social networking system is a social networking system in which geographic services and capabilities are used to enable additional social interactions. User submitted location data or geo location techniques e.g. mobile phone position logging can allow a geo social network to connect and coordinate users with local people or events that match their interests. For example users can check in to a place using a mobile client application by providing a name of a place or selecting a place from a pre established list of places . The geo social networking system among other things can record information about the user s presence at the place and possibly provide this information to other users of the geo social networking system.

A social networking system may maintain a data store of information relating to geographic locations or places. Places may correspond to various physical locations such as restaurants bars businesses train stations and airports. A social networking system may allow users to access information regarding each place using a client application e.g. a web browser hosted by a client system such as a mobile device. In addition to user profile and place information the social networking system may log or maintain other information about the user. For example the social networking system may support geo social networking system functionality including one or more location based services that record the user s location. For example users may access the geo social networking system using a special purpose client application hosted by a client system . The client system may automatically access GPS cellular triangulation or other geo location functions supported by the client system and report the user s current location to the geo social networking system. A check in to a given place may occur when a user is physically located at a place and using a client system access the geo social networking system to register the user s presence at the place. A user may select a place from a list of existing places near to the user s current location or create a new place. The user may also identify one or more other users in connection with a check in such as friends of a user and associate them with the check in as well. For example a record of the user s check in activity may be stored in a data store .

Still further a special purpose client application hosted on a mobile device of a user may be configured to continuously capture location data of the mobile device and send the location data to the social networking system. In this manner the social networking system may log the user s location.

In particular embodiments a data store associated with social networking system may store an information base of places where each place includes a name a geographic location and meta information such as the user that initially created the place check in activity data and the like . For example a geographic location of an Internet connected computer or computing device can be identified by the assigned Internet Protocol IP address. For example a geographic location of a cell phone equipped with cellular Wi Fi and or GPS capabilities can be identified by cell tower triangulation Wi Fi positioning and or GPS positioning. In particular embodiments the data store may store a geographic location and additional information of a plurality of places. For example a place can be a local business a point of interest e.g. Union Square in San Francisco Calif. a college a city or a national park. For example a geographic location of a place e.g. a local coffee shop can be an address a set of geographic coordinates latitude and longitude or a reference to another place e.g. the coffee shop next to the train station . For example a geographic location of a place with a large area e.g. Yosemite National Park can be a shape e.g. a circle or a polygon approximating the boundary of the place and or a centroid of the shape. For example additional information of a place can be business hours or photographs of the place. In particular embodiments the social networking system may calculate one or more routes of a user based on the user s user profile information check in activities and or geographic location data reported by a client application see above and store the one or more routes. For example the social networking system can calculate a commute route of a user between the user s home and work by using a mapping service application or by using geographic location data points from the user s GPS equipped mobile phone while the user is driving to work.

In particular embodiments a mobile device e.g. client system may include hardware firmware and software. illustrates an example mobile device client system . In particular embodiments client system may be a smart phone e.g. iPhone or Blackberry which is a mobile telephone that offers more advanced computing ability and connectivity than a traditional mobile phone. It may be considered as a handheld computer integrated with a mobile phone. In particular embodiments client system may be a netbook or tablet computer e.g. iPad . In particular embodiments client system may be connected to a network through a wireless connection.

In particular embodiments client system may include hardware and software . In particular embodiments hardware may include any number of hardware components such as for example and without limitation processor memory storage transceiver input output device e.g. display touch screen keypad microphone speaker etc. camera global positioning system GPS sensor sensors hub notification control switch radio frequency identification RFID reader radio frequency RF sensor and so on. This disclosure contemplates any suitable hardware components. In particular embodiments some or all of a user s user data may be stored in storage .

In particular embodiments software may include an operating system which may include a kernel and or any number of device drivers corresponding to some of the hardware components available on client system . Operating system may be selected for client system based on the actual type of device client system is. For example if client system is a mobile device e.g. a smart phone then operating system may be a mobile operating system such as for example and without limitation Microsoft s Windows Mobile Google s Android Nokia s Symbian Apple s iOS and Samsung s Bada.

In particular embodiments one or more software applications may be executed on client system . In particular embodiments they may be native applications installed and residing on client system . For example one application e.g. Google Maps may enable a device user to view a map search for addresses and businesses and get directions a second application may enable the device user to read send and receive emails a third application e.g. a web browser may enable the device user to browse and search the Internet a fourth application may enable the device user to take photos or record videos using camera a fifth application may allow the device user to receive and initiate VoIP and or cellular network calls and so on. In particular embodiments there may be a software application e.g. notification control that enables the device user to manage the notifications pushed to client system . Notification control is described in more detail below. Each software application may have a user interface and may implement one or more specific functionalities. Each software application may include one or more software modules implementing the individual functionalities. The executable code of software applications including notification control may be stored in a computer readable and non transitory medium e.g. storage or memory on mobile device .

At step the system accesses data associated with the past user states of the user. The past user state may be a temporal spatial modal or social accessibility of the user. In particular embodiments this data may be stored by the social networking system . In particular embodiments a past user state may be commuting to and from the user s place of employment. This state would have temporal spatial modal and social aspects relevant to the user. In particular embodiments the past user state may be attending an event stored by the social networking system . In particular embodiments the past user state may be traveling in a geographic area connected to information stored by the social networking system . For instance the user may have posted a status update indicating that the user was on vacation at a time proximate to the user s mobile computing device indicating a location in Hawaii. In particular embodiments the past user state may be determined from data associated with one of the user s contacts stored by the social networking system . For instance the user s contact may have previously saved check in activity data indicating the user and a location. In particular embodiments the past user state may be connected to the client system currently in use by the user. For instance the past user state may be that the user was in transit at a time proximate to a received unique client system identifier indicating that the client system is an in car navigation unit. As another example the past user state may be that the user was working when the client system was a specific laptop or that the user was busy when the client system was a mobile gaming device.

At step the system predicts a future user state and future client system usage by the user at a future time. In particular embodiments the social networking system may use a number of geo social factors. For example the social networking system may have developed a dataset of connected user states and client system usage data points by cross referencing stored data. The social networking system may also have access to current time or location data for the client system . Additionally the social networking system may also have stored data concerning future events and calendar appointments of the user. The social networking system may use one or more of the data accessed in steps and to algorithmically predict future user states.

In particular embodiments the system may use regression analysis on some or all of the data accessed in steps or to predict the future user state. In particular embodiments the system may use a linear regression of multiple independent variables to assign probabilities to a number of possible states. An exemplar linear regression may be y X X . . . Xwherein yrepresents a possible future state chosen from a set of past user states accessed in step xrepresents an independent variable represents a weighting factor to be assigned to each variable and where n spans the values 1 to p. In a particular embodiment the independent variables may be any of the types of data discussed above in connection with step .

In particular embodiments the system may use a decision tree analysis on some or all of the data accessed in steps or to predict the future user state. The system may use historical data to develop decision nodes and chance nodes of the decision tree to predict future user states. For example based on historical data a certain combination of inputs may predict a user state. If the future local time corresponds with past local times associated with the past user state of commuting the current reported client system is an in car navigation unit and the current reported location of the client system is on the known commuting path for the user the system may work through a decision tree to determine that the future user state of the user is commuting to work for a given time period. In particular embodiments the decision tree analysis may be desirable in a system with a small number of potential future user states. In particular embodiments the decision tree analysis may be combined with other prediction techniques.

In particular embodiments the system may use a neural network analysis on some or all of the data accessed in steps or to predict the future user state. For example the system may implement a supervised learning neural network to find a function mapping input variables drawn from the data accessed in step to user states drawn from the data accessed in step . The neural networking analysis may try to minimize the mean squared error between the network s predicted user state and known past user states. By minimizing this error the network is able to develop an approximated function for predicting future user states.

In particular embodiments the system may use an expert system analysis on some or all of the data accessed in steps or to predict the future user state. The system may build a knowledge base of the expert system based on historic data. For example the system may develop a rule that IF the client system is Laptop001 THEN user is at work . As another example the system may develop a rule that IF the current location is Hawaii THEN the user is on vacation . As another example the system may develop a rule that IF the current local time is between 7 PM and 6 AM THEN the user is at home . By developing said knowledge base the system may then run input variables through the expert system inference engine either in batches or serially to predict future user states.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable manner of predicting a future user state and utilizing any combination of factors accessed in steps and or weighting of factors in the calculation of the predicted future user state.

At step the system adapts the operation of the client system of the user at a future time in response to the predicted future user state at which point the method may end. In particular embodiments the predicted user state may be that the user will be travelling in a geographic area. The system may adapt by pushing data relevant to the geographic area to the client system . For example if the predicted user state is that the user will be vacationing in Hawaii the system can push relevant data e.g. weather information travel advisories restaurant reviews and taxi cab advertisements to the client system . Some or all of the data can be displayed as notifications to the user. Alternatively some or all of the data can be cached on the client system and used to pre populate suggested searches and suggested results or reduce future data usage by the client system .

In particular embodiments the system for predicting a future state of a mobile device user as illustrated in may be associated with a social networking system . In this case the social networking system may implement the method illustrated in e.g. as computer software and use the method to predict the future user state of users who are also members of the social networking system .

It may be desirable for a social networking application on the client system to change its operation in response to the predicted user s state. In particular embodiments the system adapts the operation of the client system by modifying the logical operation of a social networking application on the client system . For example if the predicted future user state is that the user is unavailable e.g. on an airline flight working watching a film then the social networking application on the user s client system can be set to queue all notifications to the user until the predicted future user state changes. As further example if the predicted future user state is that the user will be out at a public social setting e.g. attending a birthday party the social networking application on the user s client system can be set to launch a camera application when accessed.

In particular embodiments the system adapts the operation of the client system by altering the characteristics of the data requested by the client system and sent by the social networking system . In particular embodiments it may be desirable for the social networking system to provide lower bandwidth services to the client system when that device is connected via certain types of links . For example some telecommunications providers offer data download limits and impose fees for exceeding those limits. As another example some telecommunications contracts charge increased fees for data transfer when travelling in a foreign country. If the predicted future user state indicates that the client system will be connected via a link associated with a data limit or increased fees the social networking system may transmit lower bandwidth content. In particular embodiments it may be desirable to increase an interval at which the social networking system polls the client system to determine the device s location. For example if the predicted future user state is that the user will be at home the social networking system may adapt by increasing the polling interval to once every hour. By increasing the polling interval it may be possible for the social networking system to increase the battery life of the client system .

Particular embodiments may repeat the steps of the method of where appropriate. Moreover although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular steps of the method of as occurring in a particular order this disclosure contemplates any suitable steps of the method of occurring in any suitable order. Furthermore although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular components devices or systems carrying out particular steps of the method of this disclosure contemplates any suitable combination of any suitable components devices or systems carrying out any suitable steps of the method of .

The system may comprise one or more predictor modules e.g. an application that are responsible for computing a set predictor function which predicts a future user state. As discussed above each predictor function may be any suitable method for predicting a future user state. In some embodiments the predictor function may be generated using a machine learned algorithm that is trained using a user s historical activity associated with a specific user state. Machine learning is a scientific discipline that is concerned with the design and development of algorithms that allow computers to learn based on data. The computational analysis of machine learning algorithms and their performance is a branch of theoretical computer science known as computational learning theory. The desired goal is to improve the algorithms through experience e.g. by applying the data to the algorithms in order to train the algorithms . The data are thus often referred to as training data . Each predictor module thus provides a predictor function for each of a set of possible future user states where a predictor function may take as an input some or all of the data accessed in method step and then outputs a measure of the likelihood that the user will have a predicted future user state.

In some embodiments one or more of the predictor functions may use a decay factor in which the strength of the signal from a user s historical activity decays with time. Moreover different predictor functions may decay the historical activity at different rates. For example some types of predicted future user state like commuting to work indicate a more persistent connection than other types of activity that indicate a more ephemeral connection like attending a non recurring event e.g. a wedding . Therefore the predictor functions may decay the effect of historical activity based on an understanding about how that past user state may become less relevant over the passage of time. Various decay mechanisms may be used for this purpose. For example a predictor function may use a mathematical function such as an exponential decay to decay the statistics about a predicted user state. In another embodiment the decay is implemented by selecting only those statistics about a user state that occurred within a specific window of time such as 24 hours or 30 days.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . This disclosure contemplates computer system taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server a tablet computer system or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple data centers or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translation for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM. This disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include a hard disk drive HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCIe bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein a computer readable non transitory storage medium or media may include one or more semiconductor based or other integrated circuits ICs such as for example field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or application specific ICs ASICs hard disk drives HDDs hybrid hard drives HHDs optical discs optical disc drives ODDs magneto optical discs magneto optical drives floppy diskettes floppy disk drives FDDs magnetic tapes solid state drives SSDs RAM drives SECURE DIGITAL cards or drives any other suitable computer readable non transitory storage media or any suitable combination of two or more of these where appropriate. A computer readable non transitory storage medium may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

Herein or is inclusive and not exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A or B means A B or both unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover and is both joint and several unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A and B means A and B jointly or severally unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.

The scope of this disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments described or illustrated herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. The scope of this disclosure is not limited to the example embodiments described or illustrated herein. Moreover although this disclosure describes and illustrates respective embodiments herein as including particular components elements functions operations or steps any of these embodiments may include any combination or permutation of any of the components elements functions operations or steps described or illustrated anywhere herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Furthermore reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to arranged to capable of configured to enabled to operable to or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus system component whether or not it or that particular function is activated turned on or unlocked as long as that apparatus system or component is so adapted arranged capable configured enabled operable or operative.

