---

title: Combining orders for delivery
abstract: In some examples, a first device associated with a first buyer may present information related to a plurality of merchants offering items for delivery. The first device may receive, as a first order, a selection of a first item offered by a selected merchant. The first device may determine that a second device is within a threshold distance of the first device, and may send, to the second device, a communication for creating a combined order, such as for dividing a delivery fee associated with the order. A second buyer may use the second device to select a second item to order from the selected merchant. At least one of the first device or the second device may send order information to a service computing device, which may send the combined order to the first merchant and schedule a courier to deliver the order to the buyers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09269103&OS=09269103&RS=09269103
owner: Square, Inc.
number: 09269103
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150219
---
People enjoy eating quality food that is prepared by good restaurants. Nevertheless sometimes people may not want to go to a restaurant but instead may prefer to have food delivered to them. To meet this demand a courier may deliver food prepared by a restaurant to a customer at a delivery location. For example a service may enable customers to order food items from any of a variety of restaurants and may arrange for couriers to deliver the food items from the restaurants to the customers. Typically there may be additional expenses associated with having the food items delivered to the customer such as for compensating the courier for delivery of the food items. Consequently customers may prefer to minimize the additional expenses associated with having the food items delivered to them.

Some implementations herein provide technological innovations for a novel ecosystem in which buyers who want to place orders for delivery are motivated to provide an opportunity for other buyers to participate in combined orders. In some examples a first buyer who is placing an order is provided with an incentive to actively solicit other buyers to participate in a combined order with the first buyer thereby benefiting both the first buyer and the other buyers. The technology herein employs a plurality of computing devices mobile devices and location sensors to provide a novel technological arrangement that enables buyers to combine orders for delivery with other buyers regardless of whether the buyers know each other or not.

Further the technology herein can allow any person with a mobile device to immediately become a courier or cease to be a courier in a courier network that provides delivery services for delivery of items from merchants to buyers. Through the interaction of computing devices mobile devices and location sensors implementations herein can manage an unpredictable sharing ecosystem in which a large number of people are able to start serving as couriers or cease serving as couriers as necessary to accommodate ever changing circumstances and conditions of the merchants the buyers the service region and the couriers themselves. Consequently the technology disclosed herein enables efficient crowdsourcing of courier services in an on demand manner from a varying group of people for providing a delivery service to merchants and buyers and which can further enable buyers to minimize delivery expenses by combining orders to be delivered by the couriers.

Some implementations described herein include techniques and arrangements for combining orders for items that are to be delivered to multiple different buyers. As one example a first buyer may use an application on a first buyer device to create a first order by selecting one or more items such as food items offered by a first merchant such as a restaurant. The first buyer device may further send a communication to one or more other buyer devices within a threshold proximity to the first buyer device. For instance the communication may indicate that the first buyer is placing an order for one or more items from the first merchant and may invite the nearby buyers to place an order that may be combined with the first order created by the first buyer. In some cases the first buyer and the other buyers may be motivated to create a combined order based on an incentive such as a reduction in an amount of a delivery fee that will be paid by the buyers. For example the delivery fee for the combined order may be divided between the first buyer and any other buyers who decide to place an order thereby resulting in a discounted fee to the buyers who participate in the combined order.

As one example a second buyer who has an instance of the buyer application installed on the second buyer device may receive a communication inviting the second buyer to place an order that may be combined with the first order of the first buyer. The second buyer may use the buyer application to select one or more items to purchase from the first merchant thereby creating a second order that is associated with the second buyer. Subsequently at least one of the first buyer or the second buyer may send the combined order to a service computing device of a service provider. The service provider may send the combined order to the first merchant who may prepare the ordered items. The service provider may arrange for a courier to pick up the ordered items and deliver the items to the first buyer and the second buyer such as at a common delivery location. Accordingly because the courier only has to make one pickup and one delivery a delivery fee associated with the combined order may be divided between the first buyer and the second buyer.

The buyers may be able to create a combined order using any of several different techniques. For instance a first buyer may use a buyer application on the first buyer device e.g. a mobile computing device or other type of computing device as enumerated elsewhere herein to start an order. The first buyer may interact with a graphic user interface GUI presented by the application to select one or more items for delivery from a particular merchant. The first buyer may select an option presented by the buyer application to determine whether there are other nearby buyers who may be interested in creating a combined order with the first buyer. In some examples the application may only contact nearby buyers who are already known to the first buyer while in other examples the application may contact any nearby buyer who also has an instance of the buyer application installed on that buyer s device and who has indicated a desire to receive such communications. In some instances the application may send to the other buyer devices at least a portion of the first order information of the first buyer such as an identity of the particular merchant from which the first buyer intends to order the one or more items. Further in some cases the application may send to the other buyer devices additional order information such as first buyer identifying information first buyer delivery location the one or more items that the first buyer has selected to order comments by the first buyer or other buyers about the particular merchant or the like.

In some implementations the buyer application may limit the buyer devices contacted for forming a combined order to those buyer devices currently within a threshold proximity to the first buyer device. For instance the buyer application may access a wireless communication interface on the buyer device such as a Wi Fi communication interface BLUETOOTH low energy BLE communication interface or the like. The application may communicate with any other devices that have the buyer application installed and that have access to the same Wi Fi access point or that are within radio communication range using e.g. BLE communications or other close range wireless communication technologies such as infrared communications. As another example the buyer application may communicate with a geo fence set up for a particular area within which the first buyer device is currently located and the buyer application may send the invitation only to other buyer devices determined to be within the geo fenced area.

A second buyer who receives the invitation to join in a combined order can create a second order to be added to the first order to create a combined order. For instance the buyer application may present a menu associated with the particular merchant in a GUI on the second buyer s device. The second buyer may select one or more items as a second order associated with the second buyer. Accordingly the combined order may include the first order associated with the first buyer and the second order associated with the second buyer. Either the first buyer or the second buyer may send the combined order information to a service computing device of the service provider. For instance the first buyer may send both the first order and the second order the second buyer may send both the first order and the second order or the first buyer may send the first order and the second buyer may send the second order and at least one of the sent orders may include an indication that it is to be combined with the other sent order.

As another example the first buyer may use the buyer application to select one or more items for placing a first order with a particular merchant. The first buyer may send the first order information to the service computing device and may further indicate a desire to create a combined order. The service computing device may determine a delivery location for the first order which in some cases may be the same as the current location of the first buyer device or an address specified by the first buyer when providing the first order information. The service computing device may send a communication to other buyer devices within a threshold distance of the delivery location informing the other buyers of the opportunity for creating combined order from the particular merchant. If another buyer is interested in ordering from the particular merchant the other buyer may respond to the invitation with one or more selected items as a second order associated with the other buyer.

As another example when a second buyer opens the buyer application to place an order the service computing device may determine that the delivery location of the second buyer is within a threshold distance of the delivery location of the first buyer. Based on this the service computing device may send an offer for a discounted delivery fee if the second buyer orders from the particular merchant such as before a time limit agreed to by the first buyer expires.

The service provider receives the second order information from the second buyer and may associate the second order information with the first order information as combined order information. The service provider may send the combined order information including the first order information and the second order information to the particular merchant. The service provider may further schedule a courier to pick up the combined order from a pickup location of the particular merchant. Thus the courier may deliver the first order to the first buyer and the second order to the second buyer at the same delivery location or at delivery locations within a threshold distance of each other.

In some examples the service computing device may send the invitation to join a combined order to other buyers that are known to the first buyer such as may have been indicated by a contacts list or the like received from the first buyer device. In other examples the other buyers who receive the communication may or may not know the first buyer and may be selected to receive the communication based on proximity to the delivery location specified by the first buyer. For instance two or more buyers who participate in a combined order may be located in the same office building same apartment complex same neighborhood or the like and may or may not know each other.

As one example the first buyer may elect to pause delivery briefly e.g. 10 minutes 20 minutes etc. to allow other buyers having delivery locations within a threshold distance of the delivery location of the first buyer to participate in a combined order with the order of the first buyer. For example buyers who are currently within the threshold distance of the first buyer s delivery location may receive from the service computing device a broadcasted message a push communication or the like to inform the buyers that if they place an order from the merchant selected by the first buyer within a specified time they can receive a discount on their order.

As another example suppose that when placing the order the first buyer is at work but is planning to go home to receive the order. Accordingly when placing the order the first buyer may specify the delivery location to be the home address of the first buyer even though the first buyer is not currently near the home address. Consequently the other buyers who receive the communication to join the order of the first buyer may be within a threshold distance of the first buyer s home address and or may have delivery locations within a threshold distance of the first buyer s home address. Accordingly the other buyers who receive the communication to participate in a combined order also may or may not be currently at their respective delivery locations.

Furthermore in some examples the buyers may not necessarily order from the same merchant when creating a combined order. For example a first buyer may place a first order from a first merchant and a second buyer may place a second order from a second merchant that is within a threshold distance from the first merchant. Accordingly since the first merchant and second merchant are located threshold proximity to one another the courier may pick up both orders without much additional time expenditure and may deliver the respective orders to the delivery location s of the first buyer and the second buyer. As mentioned above the delivery location of the first buyer and the delivery location of the second buyer may be the same delivery location or may be delivery locations that are otherwise within a threshold distance of each other.

In some examples a buyer who is interested in paying a reduced delivery fee may be presented with a listing of merchants at which orders are currently pending and which orders have delivery locations within a threshold distance of the delivery location of the buyer. Accordingly the buyer may select a merchant from this list for placing an order which may result in a discounted delivery fee for the order. As another example if the buyer does not care to order from the merchants currently available the buyer may indicate a desire to be notified when additional merchants are selected for orders to be delivered to a delivery location within a threshold distance of the buyer s delivery location. As still another example a buyer may indicate a desire to be notified whenever a particular merchant has a pending order that will be delivered to a delivery location within a threshold distance of the buyer s delivery location.

As used herein an order may include a request submitted by a buyer e.g. a customer for the acquisition of food items and or other goods referred to herein as items from a merchant. The order information may be received by the service and sent to the merchant. For example a merchant may include a restaurant or any other business or other entity engaged in the offering of items for delivery to buyers. Actions attributed to a merchant herein may include actions performed by employees or other agents of the merchant and thus no distinction is made herein between merchants and their employees unless specifically discussed. In addition a buyer may include any entity that purchases items from a merchant. Buyers may be customers or potential customers of a particular merchant. The service may receive payment from a buyer for an order and the service may provide payment to the merchant for the order. Further the service may provide payment to the courier for delivering the order.

For discussion purposes some example implementations are described in the environment of combining orders for delivery such as to provide a reduction in expenses to buyers. However implementations herein are not limited to the particular examples provided and may be extended to other service environments other system architectures other types of goods other advantages and so forth as will be apparent to those of skill in the art in light of the disclosure herein.

In some examples the combined order information sent to the merchant may identify items ordered by the buyers from the particular merchant . For instance each merchant M may offer one or more items M respectively which may be ordered by buyers for delivery. In some cases the combined order information may also specify a time at which the combined order is to be picked up by a courier of a plurality of couriers L . For instance the confirmation information sent by the merchant to the service computing device may confirm the pickup time specified by the service computing device . In other cases the combined order information sent to the merchant may include an inquiry as to when the order will be ready and the merchant may include with the confirmation information a specified time at which the combined order will be ready for pickup.

In either event in response to receiving the confirmation information from the particular merchant the service computing device may send combined order information to a particular courier who will pick up the combined order from the particular merchant and deliver the combined order to the buyers participating in the combined order. For instance each merchant M may be associated with a respective pickup location M which may typically be the merchant s place of business. Furthermore each buyer . . . N may be associated with a respective delivery location . . . N . In some examples to enable participation in a combined order two or more buyers may be associated with the same delivery location or alternatively the delivery locations of two or more buyers may not be the same but may still be within a threshold distance of each other.

The combined order information sent to the courier may include the pickup location for the order the pickup time and the delivery location for the order. In some examples the combined order information may further include a contract time i.e. a time by which the service provider has agreed to have the ordered items delivered to the buyers at the delivery location s . Further in some cases the combined order information may include an amount that the courier will be paid if the courier accepts the delivery job and or other information related to the combined order.

In the illustrated example the service computing device of the service provider is able to communicate with merchant devices M over the one or more networks . Each merchant device M may be associated with a respective merchant M . Each merchant device M may be a computing device such as a desktop laptop tablet smart phone or the like and may include a respective instance of a merchant application M that executes on the respective merchant device M . For example the merchant application may be configured to communicate with the service computing device such as for receiving the combined order information and for sending the confirmation information . In some examples the merchant application and the service computing device may communicate with each other via one or more application programming interfaces APIs . Further the merchant device may include one or more output devices such as speakers not shown in that the merchant application may use to audibly notify the respective merchant that an order has been received. Additionally or alternatively the merchant device may include a display not shown in that the merchant application may use for presenting the combined order information to the merchant . For instance the merchant application on the merchant device may present the combined order information in one or more GUIs.

In some examples the merchant application may provide point of sale POS functionality to the merchant device to enable the merchant to accept payments using the merchant device . Alternatively in some examples the merchant device may be a fax machine and the merchant may receive the combined order information via a facsimile transmission from the service computing device . As still another example the merchant device may be a computing device that is configured to receive order information via email instant messaging or other electronic communication. As still another example the merchant device may be a phone and the merchant device may receive the combined order information via an SMS short messaging service text message voicemail telephone call or the like.

In addition the buyers . . . N may be associated with respective buyer devices . . . N that may execute respective instances of buyer applications . . . N . For example buyers may use buyer devices such as smart phones tablet computers wearable computing devices laptops desktops or the like and these buyer devices may have installed thereon the buyer application . The buyer application may enable the buyer to select one or more items to purchase from one or more of the merchants to be delivered to the buyer by one or more of the couriers . For example the buyer application may present one or more GUIs on a display for enabling the buyer to select one or more items for an order.

Further the buyer application may enable the buyer to place an order from a merchant in advance such as for scheduling an order for delivery at a later time on the same day at a specified time on a future day or the like. For instance the buyer may be able to place an order through the buyer application to have lunch delivered at a specified delivery location by a specified time on a specified day. The buyer application may further enable the buyer to make a payment for an order using the buyer application . For instance the service provider may charge a buyer account associated with the buyer for an amount associated with a particular order. In some examples the buyer application and the service computing device may communicate with each other via one or more APIs. Additionally or alternatively the buyer application may be a web browser or the like and the buyer may navigate to a website associated with the service provider and may use the website associated with the service provider to place an order. Thus in this case the website may provide at least some of the functionality attributed to buyer application herein.

In addition the couriers L may be associated with respective courier devices L that may execute respective instances of courier applications L . For example couriers may use courier devices such as smart phones tablet computers wearable computing devices laptops or the like as further enumerated elsewhere herein and these courier devices may have installed thereon the courier application . The courier application may be configured to receive the combined order information from the service computing device to provide a particular courier with information for picking up a particular order from a merchant s pickup location and for delivering the order to one or more buyer delivery locations . The courier application may further enable the courier to respond to the service computing device to confirm acceptance of a delivery job. Additionally in some cases the courier application may provide the service computing device with an indication of a current location of a particular courier . In some examples the courier application and the service computing device may communicate with each other via one or more APIs. Alternatively in other examples the courier device may receive the combined order information via an SMS text message a voicemail a telephone call or the like.

The one or more networks can include any appropriate network including a wide area network such as the Internet a local area network such an intranet a wireless network such as a cellular network a local wireless network such as Wi Fi and or close range wireless communications such as BLUETOOTH and BLUETOOTH low energy a wired network or any other such network or any combination thereof. Accordingly the one or more networks may include both wired and or wireless communication technologies. Components used for such communications can depend at least in part upon the type of network the environment selected or both. Protocols for communicating over such networks are well known and will not be discussed herein in detail. Accordingly the service computing device the merchant devices the buyer devices and or the courier devices are able to communicate over the one or more networks using wired or wireless connections and combinations thereof.

In the illustrated example the service computing device includes an order processing module that may be executed on the service computing device to provide at least in part the functionality attributed to the service computing device . The order processing module may receive the combinable order information from the buyers and may associate the combinable order information with buyer information and merchant information . For instance based on buyer identifying information that may be included with each order included in the combinable order information the order processing module may associate particular portions of the combinable order information with particular buyer accounts. As one example a first order of the combinable order information may be associated with a first buyer account of a first buyer who placed the first order a second order of the combinable order information may be associated with a second buyer account of a second buyer who placed the second order and so forth. The order processing module may access a buyer account included in the buyer information to charge a particular buyer account for a particular order. For instance when a buyer signs up for service or otherwise uses the service the buyer may provide a credit card or other payment card information to enable the service provider to charge the account of the buyer for orders placed by the buyer.

Further based on a particular merchant identified by the combinable order information the order processing module may associate the combinable order information with a merchant account of the particular merchant. The order processing module may access the merchant account to determine contact information for sending the combined order information to the correct merchant device so that the particular merchant can receive and provide confirmation of the order. The order processing module may further access the merchant account of the particular merchant to credit payment to the particular merchant that prepares the order.

In addition the order processing module may access courier information to determine courier contact information for sending the combined order information to a particular courier of the plurality of couriers L such as to determine whether the particular courier is willing to accept the delivery job of delivering the combined order to the buyers. The particular courier may use the courier application on the courier device to receive a message with information about the combined order and to respond with acceptance of the delivery job if the delivery job is accepted. The particular courier may subsequently pick up the combined order from the particular merchant and deliver the combined order to the particular buyers at the specified delivery location s . When the courier has completed delivery of the combined order to the delivery location s the courier may use the courier application to inform the order processing module that the delivery has been completed. The order processing module may access a courier account included in courier information for the particular courier to credit the courier account of the particular courier with payment for the delivery job.

The order processing module may store information associated with each order as order information . For instance the order information may include a day of the week date and time at which each order is received from the respective buyer . The order information may further include for each order merchant identifying information buyer identifying information items ordered the pickup location the delivery location preparation time for the order location of the courier when the courier accepts delivery of the order time that the order is picked up by the courier time that the order is delivered amount paid for the order estimated delivery time provided to the buyer by the service provider and so forth.

As one example suppose that a first buyer decides to place an order for delivery. The first buyer may access the buyer application on the first buyer device to be presented with a GUI not shown in that enables the first buyer to place an order. For example the GUI may present for selection information related to items available for delivery from a plurality of different merchants. Further the buyer application may receive via the GUI a buyer input to select an item offered by a particular merchant of the plurality of merchants M . As one example the first buyer may scroll through a plurality of different merchants and select the particular merchant from which to order. The GUI may then present a menu of items offered by the particular merchant . The first buyer may scroll through the menu and select one or more items provided by the particular merchant that the first buyer would like to have delivered to a delivery location associated with the first buyer .

When the first buyer has finished selecting particular items for delivery the first buyer may select an option to request creation of a combined order to attempt to reduce the delivery fees that may be charged for the order. As one example the buyer application may attempt to contact nearby buyer devices that may also have instances of the buyer application installed thereon such as through Wi Fi or short range wireless communications through communication with the service computing device or the like. Accordingly the buyer application may determine that a second buyer device associated with a second buyer and having a second instance of the buyer application installed thereon is within a threshold distance of the first buyer device . For instance the threshold distance may be limited to being within the same room in the same building at the same delivery address in the same neighborhood connected to the same Wi Fi access point or the like. As one example the threshold distance may be sufficiently close to the first delivery location associated with the first order such that a courier that delivers the combined order will not have to travel more than a few minutes to deliver a second order to a second delivery location that may be associated with the second buyer .

When one or more other buyer devices having the buyer application are determined to be within the threshold distance the first buyer application may cause the first buyer device to send a communication inviting the nearby buyers to create a combined order. For example the communication may include at least a portion of first order information related to the first order such as information identifying the particular merchant from which the first buyer intends to order. In response to the communication suppose that the second buyer decides to accept the invitation to create a combined order and selects one or more items from the particular merchant as a second order. Thus the first buyer device may receive from the second buyer device second order information related to the one or more items included in the second order to be ordered from the particular merchant .

In response to receiving the second order information the buyer application may cause the buyer device to send to the service computing device combinable order information which may include the first order information and the second order information . For example the first order information may include first buyer account information that may be used to associate the first order information with a first buyer account. The first buyer account may be associated with the first buyer device and the first buyer . Similarly the second order information may include second buyer account information that may be used to associate the second order information with a second buyer account. The second buyer account may be associated with the second buyer device and the second buyer . Additionally in other examples the second buyer application on the second buyer device may send the combinable order information including the first order information and the second order information . As still another example the first buyer application may send the first order information to the service computing device and the second buyer application may send the second order information to the service computing device .

The order processing module may combine the first order and the second order as a combined order and send combined order information to the particular merchant identified by the first order information and the second order information . Additionally the order processing module may send the combined order information to a particular courier who will pick up the combined order from a pickup location of the particular merchant . The courier delivers the combined order to one or more specified delivery locations. For instance if the first buyer and the second buyer have indicated different delivery locations the courier may deliver the items associated with the first order to the first delivery location associated with the first order and may deliver the items associated with the second order to the second delivery location associated with the second order.

As mentioned above numerous variations will be apparent to those of skill in the art having the benefit of the disclosure herein. As one example the buyers can create a combined order with friends who are nearby. For instance each buyer participating in the combined order may be able to view the order information of each other participant in the combined order such as participant s name items ordered by each participant amount paid and so forth. The buyer application on the first buyer device may access a contact list of people known to the first buyer or other such information for determining to which buyers in the local proximity to send an invitation to join a combined order. In some cases the participants may all order from the same merchant for delivery to the same delivery location.

As another example such as in the case that the first buyer does not necessarily know the other buyers that are being invited to participate in the combined order the other buyers may be provided limited order information from the first buyer e.g. just the name of the merchant with whom the order will be placed and the time until the order is placed. For example one or more buyers may receive a communication that a nearby buyer has placed an order with the first merchant and the communication may invite the one or more buyers to participate in a combined order to order items from the first merchant. Thus in some cases the one or more buyers may participate in the combined order without ever knowing the identity of the first buyer or the items ordered by the first buyer.

As still another example a first buyer may select one or more items for an order with a merchant and may pause the order to provide time for other buyers to participate in a combined order with the order of the first buyer. Accordingly one or more buyers who are near to the delivery location of the first buyer may be offered the opportunity to order from the merchant selected by the first buyer to receive a reduction in the delivery fee. The one or more other buyers may not even know that they are participating in a combined order but instead merely know that they are going to receive a discount if they order items from the first merchant before a time limit specified by the first buyer has expired. For instance the first buyer may pause the order for a specified period of time e.g. 5 minutes 15 minutes 20 minutes 1 hour etc. to give other buyers an opportunity to join the first buyer in creating a combined order. When the time limit for the pause period has expired if no other buyers have joined the first buyer in ordering from the particular merchant the first buyer s order may be sent by the service provider to the particular merchant. Alternatively before sending the order to the merchant the service provider may inquire as to whether the first buyer would like to pause the order for an additional period of time.

As still another example the first buyer may select one or more items to order from a particular merchant and may schedule the order for a future point in time such as placing an order in the morning for delivery at dinnertime. When other buyers having delivery locations within a threshold distance of the first buyer s delivery location browse through a listing of merchants the particular merchant selected by the first buyer may be presented as having a discounted delivery fee or the like based on the ability of the service provider to combine the order with the paused order of the first buyer. For instance the other buyers may be instructed to place their orders for receiving delivery within a timeframe corresponding to a time at which the first buyer requested delivery of the first buyer s order. Accordingly the other buyers may or may not know that they are participating in a combined order but instead merely know that they are receiving a discounted delivery fee for ordering from a particular merchant for delivery to a particular location within a certain timeframe.

As mentioned above in some examples a combined order may be an order in which all of the items included in the order are ordered from the same merchant. Alternatively in other examples a combined order may be created by ordering from two or more merchants within a threshold distance of each other e.g. such that the courier can pick up both orders with only several minutes of additional time. As still another alternative the service provider may determine that a combined order can be created based on a second merchant s pickup location being within a threshold distance of a route that will be traveled by the courier from a first merchant to the delivery location. Accordingly in some examples the order processing module may schedule multiple pickups and deliveries with a single courier. For example a first buyer may select a first merchant with which to place an order. The order processing module may determine other merchants within a first threshold proximity to the first merchant and also other merchants within a second threshold proximity to a route between the first merchant and the delivery location of the first buyer and or the delivery location of the second buyer. Accordingly the order processing module may enable other buyers who wish to participate in a combined order with the first buyer to select from any merchant within the first threshold distance of the first merchant s pickup location and or any merchant within the second threshold distance of the route between the first merchant s pickup location and the delivery location s .

Each order in a combined order may have an associated spoilage time and contract time. The spoilage time may be the time between when the order is prepared and when the ordered items are considered to be of degraded quality e.g. cold soggy melted or otherwise less palatable than would be normally expected by the buyer. The contract time is the time by which the order is originally estimated to be delivered to the buyer when the buyer places the order. Accordingly if the spoilage time and contract time of the first order permit the courier may pick up one or more additional orders from pickup locations that may be nearby to the courier s route and which may be delivered to one or more different delivery locations within respective contract times and spoilage times of the one or more additional orders.

As one example suppose that the courier picks up a first order of a turkey sandwich and a salad with a spoilage time of 30 minutes and a contract time that expires 25 minutes from the pickup time. Further suppose that along the route to the first delivery location for the first order the courier picks up a second order of a pizza with a spoilage time of 20 minutes and a contract time that expires 20 minutes from the pickup time. For example the second pickup location may be within a first threshold distance from the route of the courier and the second delivery location may be within a second threshold distance from the first delivery location. The courier may lose several minutes stopping to pick up the second order but is still able to deliver the first order to the first delivery location and the second order to the second delivery location before the expiration of the respective spoilage times or contract times of the two orders.

In some examples the delivery location may have been previously entered by the first buyer and or may be a default location that may be changed by the first buyer through interaction of the first buyer with the GUI . For instance suppose that when placing the order the first buyer is at work but is planning to go home to receive the order. Accordingly the first buyer may specify the delivery location to be the home address of the first buyer even though the first buyer is not currently near the home address. Consequently in some examples the other buyers who receive a communication to create a combined order with the first order may be within a threshold distance of the first buyer s home address and or may have delivery locations within a threshold distance of the first buyer s home address.

The GUI further includes a user icon that the first buyer may select to change an account associated with the first order or to access other account information of the first buyer s account. Additionally the GUI includes a clock icon that the first buyer may select to change a time associated with the first order such as for scheduling the first order to be delivered at a later time e.g. later in the day on a future date or the like.

In the illustrated example suppose that the first buyer has selected a particular merchant which in this example is the Tex Mex Restaurant which is indicated by an identifying image associated with the merchant and a text name of the merchant in the GUI . Further suppose that the first buyer has already completed selection of several items from a menu of the selected merchant. Accordingly as indicated at the GUI may present the selections made by the first buyer which may include a listing of the selected items and the price for each selected item. The listing may further include a tax and gratuity amount to be charged for the first order a delivery fee to be charged for the first order and an order total amount to be charged for the first order. If the first buyer desires to make any changes to the items selected the first buyer may tap or otherwise select an area in the GUI to either add more items or remove a selected item. As indicated at the GUI may further present an estimated delivery time for the first order if the first buyer were to proceed immediately with placement of the first order.

The GUI further includes a plurality of virtual controls that may be selected by the first buyer for performing additional operations with respect to the first order. For instance a first virtual control may be selected by the first buyer for attempting to reduce the delivery fee by allowing other orders from other buyers to be combined with the first order. For example if the first buyer selects the virtual control the buyer application may perform operations for attempting to locate other buyers within a threshold distance of the first buyer device who may be interested in participating in a combined order with the first buyer. For instance the buyer application may access a wireless communication interface on the first buyer device such as a Wi Fi communication interface BLUETOOTH low energy BLE communication interface or the like.

In some cases the buyer application may cause the first buyer device to communicate with any other buyer devices that have the buyer application installed and that are in radio communication with the same Wi Fi access point or that are near enough to be able to communicate directly with the first buyer device using BLE communications other close range radio communications or other close range wireless communication technologies. Thus the first buyer device may send a close range radio signal to communicate with another buyer device that is within range of the close range radio signal. Additionally or alternatively the first buyer device may send a communication through a local wireless access point with which both the first buyer device and another buyer device are in local radio communication.

As another example the buyer application may communicate with a geo fence set up for a particular area within which the first buyer device is currently located and the buyer application may send the invitation to participate in the combined order only to other buyer devices determined to be within the geo fenced area. For instance the particular area may have an open geo fence that is accessible to determine any other buyer devices currently within the geo fenced area such as based on GPS location information RFID communications or the like.

In some examples the buyer application may obtain identifying information from the buyer applications on the other buyer devices before sending a communication to invite the other buyers to participate in the combined order. For instance the buyer application may compare identifying information obtained from buyer applications on the other buyer devices with the first buyer s contacts list. The first buyer may specify that the first buyer application is to send an invitation only to nearby buyers who are already known to the first buyer. As another example the GUI may present a list of buyers who have been detected nearby and the first buyer may select to which of these buyers the invitation for creating a combined order is sent. Alternatively of course in other examples the buyer application may send the communication to any nearby buyer who also has an instance of the buyer application installed on that buyer s device.

As another example the buyer application may send the first order information to the service computing device and may include an indication that the service computing device is to attempt to locate other buyers who may be interested in creating a combined order with the first order. The service computing device may determine the delivery location for the first order. The service computing device may send a communication to other buyer devices determined to be within a threshold distance of the delivery location such as for informing the other buyers of the opportunity for participating in a combined order. As another example the service computing device may send the communication to buyer devices that have been used in the past to place orders for delivery to delivery locations within a threshold distance from the first delivery location.

In some examples both the buyer application and the service computing device may attempt to locate potential buyers to participate in a combined order. Thus the buyer application on the buyer device may attempt to locate nearby buyer devices using short range communications while the service computing device may also attempt to locate other nearby buyer devices within a threshold distance of the delivery location based on location information received from the other buyer devices or past history of buyers who have placed orders from the delivery location specified by the first buyer. In some cases buyers may not want their locations to be tracked by the service computing device. Accordingly if the service computing device does not know the current location of a particular buyer device the service computing device may send an inquiry to the particular buyer device only if the particular buyer has ordered from a particular delivery location multiple times in the past and at a time of day that is near to the current time of day.

When the first buyer selects the first virtual control to attempt to locate other buyers who may be interested in participating in a combined order the placement of the order may be paused briefly while waiting for other buyers to be contacted and decide whether to participate in the order. As one example the pause may be managed locally by the buyer application and the buyer application may not send the first order to the service computing device until the paused period of time has elapsed or until the first buyer makes an additional input to send the first order or the combined order to the service computing device. As another example the first order may be sent to the service computing device in response to selection of the virtual control and the service computing device may hold the order from being sent to the merchant until the threshold time for the pause has expired or until the first buyer instructs the service computing device to send the order to the merchant.

Thus the first buyer can elect to delay placement of the order for a period of time to allow other buyers sufficient time to create a combined order with the first order. The buyer application may wait for a default period of time i.e. a threshold time period and if no other buyers place an order to be combined with the first order the first order may proceed as a single order following expiration of the default period of time. In some examples the first buyer may specify a threshold time period as to how long the first buyer is willing to wait for others to participate in creating a combined order. As one example suppose that the default time period is 10 minutes. If the first buyer desires to specify a different time period the first buyer may select a second virtual control that is selectable to allow the first buyer to specify a threshold time period to allow other orders to be combined with the first order. Thus the first buyer may elect to wait for a shorter amount of time than the default time period e.g. only 5 minutes or a longer amount of time e.g. 15 minutes 20 minutes 30 minutes etc. Additionally if the initial threshold time period expires with no other buyers accepting the invitation to participant in the combined order the first buyer may be presented with an option to wait an additional period of time before placing the first order with the merchant. Further the threshold time period may be based on a specified end time e.g. the first buyer may specify that the threshold time period ends at 12 00 PM 12 15 PM etc.

As another example if the buyer schedules the delivery for later in the day then the threshold time period for allowing other buyers to participate in the combined order may expire at a point in time based on an estimated preparation time and estimated delivery time for the order. For instance if the estimated preparation time for the order is 20 minutes and the estimated delivery time for the order is 20 minutes then the threshold time for other buyers to participate in the order may expire 40 minutes before the scheduled delivery time. Thus if the first buyer schedules the order for delivery by 6 00 PM the other buyers may be able participate in the order until 5 20 PM at which time the offer for the delivery discount may end.

In addition to entice other buyers to order from the same merchant as the first buyer the GUI may present a third virtual control that the first buyer may select to add a comment about the selected merchant to encourage other buyers to combine orders with the first order. For example the buyer may select the third virtual control and add a comment recommending that others try the first merchant or try particular items offered by the first merchant. Additionally the GUI may present a fourth virtual control which the buyer may select to place the first order immediately rather than attempting to create a combined order.

In some examples the first buyer device or the service computing device may send the communication to join in an order to buyers that are known to the first buyer such as may have been indicated by a contacts list or the like received from the first buyer. In other examples the other buyers who receive the communication may or may not be known to the first buyer and may be selected to receive the communication based on proximity to the delivery location specified by the first buyer or based on having a saved delivery address within a threshold proximity to the delivery location specified by the first buyer. In some cases two buyers who participate in a combined order may be located in the same office building same apartment complex same neighborhood may be in radio communication with the same wireless access point or the like and may or may not know each other.

Accordingly the second buyer device may receive a communication inviting the second buyer to participate in a combined order with the first order created by the first buyer. The GUI may present information from the communication including as indicated at an indication that another buyer who may be known to the second buyer in some cases is placing an order with a particular merchant. In other examples however no identifying information about the first buyer is presented. Further the GUI may present a review or other comment provided by the first buyer about the particular merchant which may help entice the second buyer to place an order with the particular merchant. In addition the GUI may present an invitation for the second buyer to place an order with the particular merchant such as for receiving a discount delivery fee. Further the GUI may present an image associated with the particular merchant and the name of the particular merchant.

If the second buyer decides to accept the invitation to create a combined order the second buyer may tap or otherwise select an area of the GUI to begin selecting one or more items to include in the second order. For example selecting the area may cause the GUI to present a menu of the items available to be selected for delivery from the particular merchant.

As an alternative in some examples the second buyer may be presented with a virtual control to enable the second buyer to view other merchants with whom orders may be placed rather than the particular merchant . For instance as mentioned above if one or more other merchants are within a threshold proximity to the merchant the second buyer may be able to place an order with one of these other merchants and still be able to create a combined order for a discount. Similarly if one or more other merchants are within a threshold proximity to a route that the courier will travel from the merchant to the first delivery location of the first buyer and or the second delivery location of the second buyer then in some examples these other merchants also may be available for selection to create a combined order.

As another alternative if the second buyer does not care for the items available from the merchant the second buyer may select a second virtual control to propose an alternative merchant to the first buyer. For example selection of the virtual control may enable the second buyer to send a communication to the first buyer with the proposed alternative merchant for creating a combined order. The alternative may be presented on the display of the first buyer s device and the first buyer may indicate acceptance or may decline the alternative merchant proposal. As still another alternative the second buyer may select a third virtual control to decline the invitation to create a combined order.

If the second buyer chooses to accept the first buyer s invitation to create a combined order the second buyer may select one or more items from the menu of the merchant and may select a place order virtual control similar to that discussed above with respect to . In response the buyer application on the second buyer device may send that the second order information to at least one of the first buyer device or the service computing device. For example if the second order information is sent to the first buyer device the first buyer may receive the second order information and may send the combined order to the service computing device as the combinable order information discussed above with respect to . Alternatively if the second order information is sent by the second buyer device directly to the service computing device at least one of the second buyer device or the service computing device may notify the first buyer device that the second order has been placed and combined with the first order. Any number of buyers may participate in a combined order using the techniques discussed above.

Further the delivery fee or other incentives may be divided among the participants of the combined order using any of several techniques. As one example the delivery fee or other incentive may be divided evenly among the participants of the combined order. As another example the delivery fee or other discount may be divided among the participants based upon the dollar amount of each order with respect to a total dollar amount of the combined order.

The service computing device receives the second order information from at least one of the first buyer device or the second buyer device and associates the second order information with the first order information as a combined order. The service computing device may send information about the combined order including the first order information and the second order information to the particular merchant. The service provider may further schedule a courier to pick up the combined order from a pickup location of the particular merchant. Thus the courier may deliver the first order to the first buyer and the second order to the second buyer either at the same delivery location or at specified different delivery locations that are within a threshold distance of each other.

In response to receiving the delivery location the service computing device may send to the buyer device a listing of merchants with whom the buyer is able to place an order. In addition the service computing device may compare the intended delivery location with any pending orders having delivery locations within a threshold distance of the delivery location of the buyer. If there are such pending orders the service computing device may be able to offer a discount on delivery fee or other incentive to the buyer if the buyer is willing to place an order for delivery with a particular merchant within a particular time period.

As one example a buyer who is interested in paying a reduced delivery fee may be presented with a listing of merchants at which orders are currently pending and which orders have delivery locations within a threshold distance of the delivery location of the buyer. Accordingly the buyer may select a merchant from this list for placing an order which may result in a discounted delivery fee for the order. As mentioned above the list of merchants available for discounted delivery may include merchants within a threshold proximity to merchants having orders pending. As another example if the buyer does not care to order from the merchants currently available for discounted delivery the buyer may indicate a desire to be notified when additional merchants are selected for orders to be delivered to a delivery location within a threshold distance of the buyer s delivery location. As still another example the buyer may indicate a desire to be notified whenever a particular merchant has a pending order that will be delivered to a delivery location within a threshold distance of the buyer s delivery location.

The GUI may present information about a plurality of merchants from whom the buyer is able to order items for delivery some of whom may be associated with discounted delivery fees. For example the buyer may scroll through the listing of merchants select a merchant from which to order and then be presented with a menu of the items provided by the selected merchant. In the illustrated example information about three merchants is presented in the GUI including an image and a name of a first merchant i.e. The Gourmet Burger Restaurant an image and a name of a second merchant i.e. The Tex Mex Restaurant and an image and a name of a third merchant i.e. The Italian Restaurant.

As one example suppose that another buyer has already placed an order with The Gourmet Burger Restaurant and has placed a pause on the order to allow time for other buyers to join in creating a combined order. Further suppose that the other buyer works in the same office building as the current buyer and that 5 minutes remain in the threshold time period before the opportunity to participate in a combined order ends. As an example the current buyer may have received a communication inviting the current buyer to create a combined order with The Gourmet Burger Restaurant. Alternatively the current buyer may have merely decided to access the buyer application to order some lunch and in response the service computing device may have determined that the delivery location of the current buyer is within a threshold distance of the delivery location of the other buyer that has already created an order with The Gourmet Burger Restaurant. In either case as indicated at the GUI may present a message that the buyer may receive a delivery discount if the buyer places an order with The Gourmet Burger Restaurant within the next 5 minutes. Thus the current buyer may select The Gourmet Burger Restaurant select one or more items to order and place the order within the specified time threshold i.e. 5 minutes in this example to create a combined order and receive a discount on delivery of the ordered items.

The service may create a combined order between the current buyer and the other buyer even though the two buyers may not know each other and have no knowledge of what the other buyer is ordering from the selected merchant. Additionally in some examples the other buyer may not even be ordering from the same merchant as the current buyer. For example as discussed above the service computing device may enable the creation of combined orders with merchants that are within a threshold distance of one another or within a threshold distance of a route between a selected merchant and a delivery location. Consequently when creating a combined order the current buyer may be able to select from several possible merchants each of which may be within a threshold distance from a particular merchant selected by the other buyer.

As another example suppose that the current buyer is at work and is placing an order for lunch. Further suppose that the service computing device accesses the current buyer s account information determines the current buyer s home address and determines that another buyer that lives within a threshold distance of the current buyer s home has placed an order with The Tex Mex Restaurant for delivery at 6 00 PM that evening. Accordingly the service computing device may present with the listing for The Tex Mex Restaurant a message offering discounted delivery fees if the current buyer is willing to join in a combined order from The Tex Mex Restaurant for delivery to the current buyer s home address at 6 00 PM that evening. As mentioned above the threshold time for allowing other buyers to participate in the combined order may expire at a point in time based on an estimated preparation time and delivery time for the first order. For instance if the estimated preparation time for the first order is 20 minutes and the estimated delivery time for the first order is 20 minutes then the threshold time for other buyers to participate in a combined order with the first order may expire 40 minutes before the scheduled delivery time. Thus if the other buyer scheduled the order for delivery by 6 00 PM the current buyer may be able join in the order until 5 20 PM at which time the offer for the delivery discount may end. Further as mentioned above in some examples the current buyer may be able to select from among a plurality of merchants that are within a threshold distance from The Tex Mex Restaurant and may have until the expiration of the threshold time period i.e. until 5 20 PM in which to join the combined order. However in some cases if the preparation time associated with the nearby merchants is longer than 20 minutes e.g. 30 minutes then the threshold time period may be set to end sooner e.g. 5 10 PM based on the longer preparation time.

If the current buyer is not interested in the merchants available to be selected for a delivery discount the buyer may select from any of the other merchants listed in the GUI such as The Italian Restaurant or any other merchant presented in the GUI . In some cases as indicated at a message may be presented to indicate that normal delivery fee prices are in effect for these merchants. Further in some cases the current buyer may request to be notified when additional merchants become available for discounted delivery or when a particular merchant becomes available for discounted delivery.

At the device may present on a display of the device information related to items available for delivery from a plurality of merchants. For example the device may present a graphic user interface that enables the buyer to select a particular merchant and select one or more items to order from the particular merchant.

At the device may receive as a first order for delivery a selection of a first item to order from a first merchant of the plurality of merchants. For instance the buyer may select a particular item from a particular merchant as a first order. The buyer may or may not send the first order information to the service computing device at this time.

At the device may determine that a second device is within a threshold distance of the device. For instance the device may send a close range radio signal to communicate with the second device such as in the case where the second device is within range of the close range radio signal. As another example the device may send a communication through a local wireless access point such as in the case in which both the device and the second device are in local radio communication with the local wireless access point. As still another example the device may receive information related to a geo fenced area within which the device is currently located. For example the device may receive contact information for a plurality of devices within the geo fenced area that have an instance of the buyer application installed thereon. As still another example the device may receive information from the service computing device regarding any buyer devices located near to a first delivery location and that have an instance of the buyer application installed.

At the device may send to the second device an invitation to create a combined order by ordering an item from the first merchant. For instance the device may send the name of the merchant and an indication that the second buyer can receive an incentive for ordering from the particular merchant such as a reduced delivery fee if the order is placed within a threshold period of time.

At the device may receive from the second device as a second order a selection of a second item to order for delivery from the first merchant. For instance the second device may send information about the second item to the first device. In other examples the second device may send information about a second item directly to the service computing device with an indication that the second item is to be combined with the first item selected by the first buyer as a combined order.

At the device may send to a service computing device as a combined order the first order information and the second order information. The device may send information about the first item and information about a second item to the service computing device with an indication that these items are included in a combined order.

At the device may send to the service computing device with the combined order first buyer account information associated with the first order and second buyer account information associated with the second order. For example the device may send at least an identifier associated with the first account and an identifier associated with the second account that enables the service computing device to associate the order for the first item with the first account and the order for the second item with the second account. As some examples the identifier may be a name of the respective buyer and account number associated with the respective buyer or the like.

At the computing device may receive from a first buyer device associated with a first buyer first order information for ordering a first item from a merchant and an indication of a first delivery location. For example the first delivery location may be determined based on a current location of the first buyer device such as may be indicated by location information received from the first buyer device or may be specified by the first buyer when initiating the first order. Thus the computing device may receive from the first buyer device location information from one or more location sensors associated with the first buyer device and may determine an indicated first delivery location based at least in part on the location information from the one or more location sensors. For instance the first buyer device may include one or more on board sensors that can be used to determine a geographic location of the first buyer device such as based on GPS information from a GPS device and or from other location indicative information such as nearby cell towers wireless connection points and the like determined through one or more communication interfaces.

At the computing device may receive from the first buyer device an indication to create a combined order with the first order. For example the first buyer may select a virtual control in a user interface presented on the first buyer device to indicate that the first buyer would like to attempt to create a combined order and this information may be sent to the service computing device.

At the computing device may receive from the first buyer device a specified time associated with the first order as a threshold time for other buyers to participate in the combined order. For example the specified time may be a default time or a time that the first buyer enters into a user interface during which placement of the first order is paused to allow other buyers to participate in a combined order with the first order. In some examples the specified time may be a scheduled delivery time such as for later in the day or for a different day.

At the computing device may determine a second delivery location associated with a second buyer device associated with a second buyer. For example the computing device may determine whether there are any other buyer devices currently within a threshold distance of the first delivery location. For instance if buyers currently have the buyer application and location information active on the buyer device the computing device may determine buyers who are currently indicated to be within a threshold distance of the first delivery location. Thus the computing device may receive from the second buyer device location information from one or more location sensors associated with the second buyer device and may determine an indicated second delivery location based at least in part on the location information from the one or more location sensors. For instance the second buyer device may include one or more on board sensors that can be used to determine a geographic location of the second buyer device such as based on GPS information from a GPS device and or from other location indicative information such as nearby cell towers wireless connection points and the like determined through one or more communication interfaces. As another example the computing device may determine whether any buyer devices have placed orders in the past for delivery locations within a threshold distance of the first delivery location. The computing device may send a communication to these buyer devices to determine whether there is any interest in participating in a combined order. As another example when a second buyer opens the buyer application on the second buyer device such as for placing an order the computing device may compare an the second buyer s delivery location with the first delivery location to determine whether the second buyer s delivery location is within a threshold distance of the first delivery location. Other variations will also be apparent to those of skill in the art having the benefit of the disclosure herein.

At the computing device may determine that the second delivery location is within a first threshold distance of the first delivery location. For instance the threshold distance may be different for different environments such as the respective delivery locations being in the same office building same apartment complex same neighborhood connected to the same wireless access point radio within a short range communication distance or the like. As one example the threshold distance may be sufficiently close such that the courier does not spend more than several minutes traveling from the first delivery location to the second delivery location.

At the computing device may send to the second buyer device information related to the merchant selected by the first buyer. For example the information may include information related to a discount or other incentive associated with ordering from the merchant based on the second delivery location being the same as or close to the first delivery location. Further in some examples the computing device may send to the second buyer device information related to other merchants that are within a threshold proximity to the merchant selected by the first buyer or threshold proximity to a route that the courier will travel during delivery. The incentive may also be available for these other merchants based on their being within the threshold proximity to the merchant or the route.

At the computing device may receive from the second buyer device within a threshold period of time second order information indicating a second item to order from the merchant for delivery to the second delivery location. For instance the second buyer may have to place an order within the threshold time or the opportunity to receive the incentive may end.

At the computing device may send to a merchant device associated with the merchant combined order information for ordering the first item and the second item from the merchant. For example the service computing device may send the order to the merchant and may receive a confirmation from the merchant that the order will be prepared by the merchant.

At the computing device may send to a courier device associated with a courier combined order information indicating the first delivery location the second delivery location and a pickup location associated with the merchant. For instance the service computing device may offer the delivery job to a courier and provide the pickup and delivery location to the courier that accepts the delivery job. In some examples the computing device may receive electronic communications from courier devices of couriers who are active for receiving delivery jobs. For instance the computing device may be able to communicate over the one or more networks with a plurality of courier devices some of which are associated with active couriers and some of which are associated with inactive couriers. The computing device may receive signals or other electronic communications from a subset of the courier devices associated with a subset of respective couriers who are active or who desire to become active and who are willing to receive assignments for delivery jobs. Further the computing device may receive location information obtained from one or more location sensors associated with each courier device of an active courier. For instance the courier devices of active couriers may report their current locations to the service computing device based on information from one or more on board sensors such as based on GPS information from a GPS device and or other location indicative information such as nearby cell towers wireless connection points and the like determined through one or more communication interfaces. Thus the subset of courier devices associated with active couriers may communicate with the computing device and may send location information obtained from one or more location sensors associated with each courier device. The location information may indicate respective geographic locations of each of the courier devices. The computing device may determine respective indicated locations of the subset of courier devices within the service region. Based on the indicated locations the computing device may select a particular courier to which to assign the order so as to minimize courier travel time to the pickup location. If there is not an active courier nearby the computing device may send a message to a courier device associated with at least one inactive courier for activating the inactive courier. For example the computing device may send messages to a one or more courier devices associated with inactive couriers to determine a current location of the inactive couriers and or to determine whether the inactive couriers are interested in becoming active to start delivering orders. If there is an inactive courier near the pickup location who is interested in becoming active the delivery job may be assigned to that courier.

The example processes described herein are only examples of processes provided for discussion purposes. Numerous other variations will be apparent to those of skill in the art in light of the disclosure herein. Additionally while the disclosure herein sets forth several examples of suitable frameworks architectures and environments for executing the processes implementations herein are not limited to the particular examples shown and discussed. Furthermore this disclosure provides various example implementations as described and as illustrated in the drawings. However this disclosure is not limited to the implementations described and illustrated herein but can extend to other implementations as would be known or as would become known to those skilled in the art.

Further while the figures illustrate the components and data of the service computing device as being present in a single location these components and data may alternatively be distributed across different computing devices and different locations in any manner. Consequently the functions may be implemented by one or more service computing devices with the various functionality described above distributed in various ways across the different computing devices. Multiple service computing devices may be located together or separately and organized for example as virtual servers server banks and or server farms. The described functionality may be provided by the servers of a single entity or enterprise or may be provided by the servers and or services of multiple different entities or enterprises.

In the illustrated example each service computing device may include one or more processors one or more computer readable media and one or more communication interfaces . Each processor may be a single processing unit or a number of processing units and may include single or multiple computing units or multiple processing cores. The processor s can be implemented as one or more microprocessors microcomputers microcontrollers digital signal processors central processing units state machines logic circuitries and or any devices that manipulate signals based on operational instructions. For instance the processor s may be one or more hardware processors and or logic circuits of any suitable type specifically programmed or configured to execute the algorithms and processes described herein. The processor s can be configured to fetch and execute computer readable instructions stored in the computer readable media which can program the processor s to perform the functions described herein.

The computer readable media may include volatile and nonvolatile memory and or removable and non removable media implemented in any type of technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Such computer readable media may include but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology optical storage solid state storage magnetic tape magnetic disk storage RAID storage systems storage arrays network attached storage storage area networks cloud storage or any other medium that can be used to store the desired information and that can be accessed by a computing device. Depending on the configuration of the service computing device the computer readable media may be a type of computer readable storage media and or may be a tangible non transitory media to the extent that when mentioned non transitory computer readable media exclude media such as energy carrier signals electromagnetic waves and signals per se.

The computer readable media may be used to store any number of functional components that are executable by the processors . In many implementations these functional components comprise instructions or programs that are executable by the processors and that when executed specifically configure the one or more processors to perform the actions attributed above to the service computing device . Functional components stored in the computer readable media may include the order processing module which may receive and combine orders and perform various other functions as discussed herein. Additional functional components stored in the computer readable media may include an operating system for controlling and managing various functions of the service computing device .

In addition the computer readable media may store data used for performing the operations described herein. Thus the computer readable media may store the buyer information including buyer accounts . . . N associated with to the respective buyers . . . N the merchant information including merchant accounts M associated with the respective merchants M the courier information including courier accounts L associated with the respective couriers L and the order information . The service computing device may also include or maintain other functional components and data not specifically shown in such as other modules and data which may include programs drivers etc. and the data used or generated by the functional components. Further the service computing device may include many other logical programmatic and physical components of which those described above are merely examples that are related to the discussion herein.

The communication interface s may include one or more interfaces and hardware components for enabling communication with various other devices such as over the network s . For example communication interface s may enable communication through one or more of the Internet cable networks cellular networks wireless networks e.g. Wi Fi and wired networks as well as close range communications such as BLUETOOTH BLUETOOTH low energy and the like as additionally enumerated elsewhere herein.

The service computing device may further be equipped with various input output I O devices . Such I O devices may include a display various user interface controls e.g. buttons joystick keyboard mouse touch screen etc. audio speakers connection ports and so forth.

In the example of the buyer device includes components such as at least one processor one or more computer readable media one or more communication interfaces and one or more input output I O devices . Each processor may itself comprise one or more processors or processing cores. For example the processor can be implemented as one or more microprocessors microcomputers microcontrollers digital signal processors central processing units state machines logic circuitries and or any devices that manipulate signals based on operational instructions. In some cases the processor may be one or more hardware processors and or logic circuits of any suitable type specifically programmed or configured to execute the algorithms and processes described herein. The processor can be configured to fetch and execute computer readable processor executable instructions stored in the computer readable media .

Depending on the configuration of the buyer device the computer readable media may be an example of tangible non transitory computer storage media and may include volatile and nonvolatile memory and or removable and non removable media implemented in any type of technology for storage of information such as computer readable processor executable instructions data structures program modules or other data. The computer readable media may include but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory solid state storage magnetic disk storage optical storage and or other computer readable media technology. Further in some cases the buyer device may access external storage such as RAID storage systems storage arrays network attached storage storage area networks cloud storage or any other medium that can be used to store information and that can be accessed by the processor directly or through another computing device or network. Accordingly the computer readable media may be computer storage media able to store instructions modules or components that may be executed by the processor . Further when mentioned non transitory computer readable media exclude media such as energy carrier signals electromagnetic waves and signals per se.

The computer readable media may be used to store and maintain any number of functional components that are executable by the processor . In some implementations these functional components comprise instructions or programs that are executable by the processor and that when executed implement operational logic for performing the actions and services attributed above to the buyer device . Functional components of the buyer device stored in the computer readable media may include the buyer application as discussed above which may present the buyer with one or more GUIs for creating orders some examples of which are described above. Additional functional components may include an operating system for controlling and managing various functions of the buyer device and for enabling basic user interactions with the buyer device .

In addition the computer readable media may also store data data structures and the like that are used by the functional components. Depending on the type of the buyer device the computer readable media may also optionally include other functional components and data such as other modules and data which may include applications programs drivers etc. and the data used or generated by the functional components. Further the buyer device may include many other logical programmatic and physical components of which those described are merely examples that are related to the discussion herein.

The communication interface s may include one or more interfaces and hardware components for enabling communication with various other devices such as over the network s or directly. For example communication interface s may enable communication through one or more of the Internet cable networks cellular networks wireless networks e.g. Wi Fi and wired networks as well as close range communications such as BLUETOOTH BLUETOOTH low energy and the like as additionally enumerated elsewhere herein.

The buyer device may further include the one or more I O devices . The I O devices may include speakers a microphone a camera and various user controls e.g. buttons a joystick a keyboard a keypad etc. a haptic output device and so forth. Other components included in the buyer device may include various types of sensors which may include a GPS device able to indicate location information as well as other sensors not shown such as an accelerometer gyroscope compass proximity sensor and the like. In some cases the GPS device may be used by the buyer application to determine a current geographic location of the buyer device . Additionally or alternatively the communication interfaces may be used to determine the current location of the buyer device such as based on communication with nearby cell towers wireless access points and the like. In some examples the buyer application may send this location information to the service computing device as an indicated delivery location for the associated buyer. Additionally the buyer device may include various other components that are not shown examples of which include removable storage a power source such as a battery and power control unit and so forth. Further the courier device and or the merchant device may include hardware structures and components similar to those described for the buyer device but with one or more different functional components.

Various instructions methods and techniques described herein may be considered in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules stored on computer readable media and executed by the processor s herein. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. for performing particular tasks or implementing particular abstract data types. These program modules and the like may be executed as native code or may be downloaded and executed such as in a virtual machine or other just in time compilation execution environment. Typically the functionality of the program modules may be combined or distributed as desired in various implementations. An implementation of these modules and techniques may be stored on computer storage media or transmitted across some form of communication media.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather the specific features and acts are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

