---

title: Electronic device and method for controlling emergency call in electronic device
abstract: An electronic device includes a communication module configured to support a first communication network and a second communication network, comprising a switch module for switching between the first communication network and the second communication network, and a processor configured to determine whether at least one of conditions for switching to a second communication network is satisfied when a request for originating an emergency call is made in a state of a setting of providing a voice service through a first communication network, cause the switch module to switch into the second communication network, and attempt to originate the emergency call when the at least one of conditions for switching to the second communication network is satisfied. Other embodiments are implemented.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09398432&OS=09398432&RS=09398432
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09398432
owner_city: Suwon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20150213
---
The present application is related to and claims the priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 a to Korean Application Serial No. 10 2014 0090337 which was filed in the Korean Intellectual Property Office on Jul. 17 2014 the entire content of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure relates to an electronic device and a method for controlling an emergency call in the electronic device.

In an existing Long Term Evolution LTE scheme only a data service uses an LTE network which is a Packet Switched PS network and a voice service uses a Third Generation 3G network which is a Circuit Switched CS network. However in a recent LTE scheme not only a data service but also a voice service may use the LTE network. Accordingly an electronic device capable of providing a voice service through the LTE network may provide a voice telephony call of improved quality to a user.

In accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure an electronic device includes a communication module configured to support a first communication network and a second communication network comprising a switch module for switching between the first communication network and the second communication network a processor configured to determine whether at least one of conditions for switching to a second communication network satisfies a condition when a request for originating an emergency call is made in a state of a setting for providing a voice service through a first communication network cause the switch module to switch into the second communication network and attempt to originate the emergency call when the at least one of conditions for switching to the second communication network is satisfied.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure a method for controlling an emergency call in an electronic device includes determining whether current information of the electronic device satisfies condition information for switching to a second communication network when a request for originating an emergency call is made in a state of a setting of providing a voice service through a first communication network and switching to the second communication network and attempting to originate the emergency call when one of conditions for switching to the second communication network is satisfied.

The electronic device and the method for controlling an emergency call in the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may quickly perform an emergency call without waste of time while ensuring the safety and urgency of a telephone call.

Before undertaking the DETAILED DESCRIPTION below it may be advantageous to set forth definitions of certain words and phrases used throughout this patent document the terms include and comprise as well as derivatives thereof mean inclusion without limitation the term or is inclusive meaning and or the phrases associated with and associated therewith as well as derivatives thereof may mean to include be included within interconnect with contain be contained within connect to or with couple to or with be communicable with cooperate with interleave juxtapose be proximate to be bound to or with have have a property of or the like and the term controller means any device system or part thereof that controls at least one operation such a device may be implemented in hardware firmware or software or some combination of at least two of the same. It should be noted that the functionality associated with any particular controller may be centralized or distributed whether locally or remotely. Definitions for certain words and phrases are provided throughout this patent document those of ordinary skill in the art should understand that in many if not most instances such definitions apply to prior as well as future uses of such defined words and phrases.

The expressions such as include and may include which may be used in the present disclosure denote the presence of the disclosed functions operations and constituent elements and do not limit one or more additional functions operations and constituent elements. The terms such as include and or have may be construed to denote a certain characteristic number step operation constituent element component or a combination thereof but may not be construed to exclude the existence of or a possibility of addition of one or more other characteristics numbers steps operations constituent elements components or combinations thereof.

In the present disclosure the expression or includes any or all combinations of words enumerated together. For example the expression A or B may include A may include B or may include both A and B. For example the expression A or B may include A may include B or may include both A and B.

The expression 1 2 first or second used in various embodiments of the present disclosure may modify various components of various embodiments but does not limit the corresponding components. For example the above expressions do not limit the sequence and or importance of the corresponding elements. The above expressions may be used merely for the purpose of distinguishing one element from the other elements. For example a first user device and a second user device indicate different user devices although both of them are user devices. For example without departing from the scope of the present disclosure a first structural element may be named a second structural element. Similarly the second structural element also may be named the first structural element.

When an element is referred to as being coupled or connected to any other element it should be understood that not only the element may be directly coupled or connected to the other element but also a third element may be interposed therebetween. Contrarily when an element is referred to as being directly coupled or directly connected to any other element it should be understood that no element is interposed therebetween.

In the present disclosure the terms are used to describe a specific embodiment and are not intended to limit the present disclosure. As used herein the singular forms are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.

Unless defined differently all terms used herein which include technical terminologies or scientific terminologies have the same meaning as that understood by a person skilled in the art to which the present disclosure belongs. Such terms as those defined in a generally used dictionary are to be interpreted to have the meanings equal to the contextual meanings in the relevant field of the art and are not to be interpreted to have ideal or excessively formal meanings unless clearly defined in the present disclosure.

An electronic device according to the present disclosure may be a device including a communication function. For example the electronic device may include at least one of a smart phone a tablet Personal Computer PC a mobile phone a video phone an e book reader a desktop PC a laptop PC a netbook computer a PDA a Portable Multimedia Player PMP an MP3 player a mobile medical device a camera a wearable device for example a Head Mounted Device HMD such as electronic glasses electronic clothes an electronic bracelet an electronic necklace an electronic accessory an electronic tattoo and a smart watch.

According to some embodiments the electronic device may be a smart home appliance with a camera function. For example the smart home appliance may include at least one of a television a digital video disk DVD player an audio a refrigerator an air conditioner a vacuum cleaner an oven a microwave oven a washing machine an air cleaner a set top box a TV box e.g. Samsung HomeSync Apple TV or Google TV a game console an electronic dictionary an electronic key a camcorder and an electronic photo frame.

According to some embodiments the electronic device may include at least one of various types of medical devices for example Magnetic Resonance Angiography MRA Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI Computed Tomography CT a smayning machine ultrasonic wave device and the like a navigation device a Global Positioning System GPS receiver an Event Data Recorder EDR a Flight Data Recorder FDR a car infotainment device ship electronic equipment for example navigation equipment for a ship a gyro compass and the like avionics a security device and an industrial or home robot.

According to an embodiment an electronic device may include at least one of a part of furniture or a building structure having a communication function an electronic board an electronic signature receiving device a projector and various types of measuring instruments for example a water meter an electric meter a gas meter a radio wave meter and the like . The electronic device according to the present disclosure may be a combination of one or more of the aforementioned various devices. Further it is obvious to those skilled in the art that the electronic device according to the present disclosure is not limited to the aforementioned devices.

Hereinafter an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure will be described with reference to the accompanying drawings. The term user used in various embodiments may refer to a person who uses an electronic device or a device for example an artificial intelligence electronic device that uses an electronic device.

An electronic device capable of providing a voice service through a PS network always attempts to originate an emergency call through the PS network without a particular condition when the origination of the emergency call is requested. First when the origination of the emergency call is attempted through the PS network and then fails the electronic device switches to a CS network and attempts to originate the emergency call through the CS network.

When the origination of the emergency call is attempted in a region e.g. a mountain a part etc. where the PS network is insecure or in a region e.g. a stadium a performance hall etc. where the traffic of the PS network is high due to the failure of origination of the emergency call through the PS network a process in which the electronic device switches from the PS network to the CS network and again attempts to originate an emergency call causes the waste of time and may raise a possibility that the emergency call of which security must be ensured during a telephone call may be dropped.

When the setting of providing a voice service through the PS network is mayceled in order to attempt the origination of an emergency call through the CS network an advantage e.g. improvement in setup time improvement in quality of a telephone call etc. in the case of providing the voice service through the PS network may not be used.

To address the above discussed deficiencies this disclosure provides an apparatus and a method which may quickly perform an emergency call without waste of time while ensuring the safety and urgency of a telephone call.

The bus may be a circuit that interconnects the above described elements and delivers communications e.g. a control message between the above described elements.

The processor may receive commands from the above described other elements e.g. the memory the input output interface the display module the communication module etc. through the bus may interpret the received commands and may execute calculation or data processing according to the interpreted commands.

The memory may store commands or data received from the processor or other elements e.g. the input output interface the display module the communication module etc. or generated by the processor or other elements. The memory may include programming modules such as a kernel middleware an Application Programming Interface API at least one application and the like. Each of the above described programming modules may be implemented in software firmware hardware or a combination of two or more thereof.

The kernel may control or manage system resources e.g. the bus the processor the memory etc. used to execute operations or functions implemented by the remaining other programming modules e.g. the middleware the API and the application . Also the kernel may provide an interface through which the middleware the API or the application may access and may control or manage individual elements of the electronic device .

The middleware may serve as a go between so as to enable the API or the application to communicate with the kernel before exchanging data with the kernel . Also in relation to work requests received from the multiple applications the middleware may perform load balancing for the work requests by using for example a method for assigning a priority in which the system resources e.g. the bus the processor the memory etc. of the electronic device are capable of being used to at least one of the multiple applications .

The API is an interface which enables the application to control a function provided by the kernel or the middleware and may include at least one interface or function for for example file control window control image processing character control or the like.

The input output interface for example may receive a command or data as input from a user and may deliver the received command or data to the processor or the memory through the bus . The display module may display to the user a video an image data e.g. multimedia data text data or the like or the like.

The communication module may connect communication between other electronic devices and or a server and the electronic device . The communication module may support wired wireless communication such as predetermined short range wired wireless communication e.g. Wi fi Bluetooth BT and Near Field Communication NFC predetermined network communication e.g. the Internet a Local Area Network LAN a Wide Area Network WAN a telecommunication network a cellular network a satellite network Universal Serial Bus USB Recommended Standard 232 RS 232 Plain Old Telephone Service POTS etc. and the like. Each of the electronic devices and may be a device which is identical e.g. of an identical type to or different e.g. of a different type from the electronic device .

When the origination of an emergency call is requested in a state of a setting of providing a voice service through a first communication network the emergency call control module may switch to a second communication network according to a condition and may attempt to originate the emergency call. Additional information on the emergency call control module is provided as illustrated in to below.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the emergency call control module may include a registration module an identification module and a switching module . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the emergency call control module may be the emergency call control module illustrated in . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the emergency call control module may be the processor illustrated in . The emergency call control module may include one of or a combination of two or more of for example hardware software and firmware.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the registration module may register a designated condition compared with at least one of conditions for switching to a second communication network in order to originate an emergency call. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure in a location information registration mode for switching to the second communication network in order to originate an emergency call the registration module may store in the storage module at least one piece of location information that the user inputs through a user interface as location information for switching to the second communication network in order to originate the emergency call. In the location information registration mode for switching to the second communication network in order to originate the emergency call when the user inputs a time zone through the user interface the registration module may store in the storage module the time zone that the user has input as time information for attempting to originate an emergency call through the second communication network. The registration module may automatically store in the storage module location information of a location at which the number of failures of connecting a voice service through a first communication network is greater than or equal to the predetermined number of times as the location information for switching to the second communication network in order to originate the emergency call. The registration module may display a message recommending the user to store the location information of the location at which the number of failures of connecting a voice service through the first communication network is greater than or equal to the predetermined number of times as the location information for switching to the second communication network in order to originate the emergency call.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure in a function registration mode for switching to the second communication network in order to originate an emergency call when the user sets switching to the second communication network in order to originate the emergency call through the user interface if the electronic device originates the emergency call the registration module may register a function capable of automatically switching to the second communication network.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure in a lock pattern registration mode for switching to the second communication network in order to originate an emergency call the registration module may store in the storage module a pattern that the user inputs through the user interface as pattern information for originating an emergency call in a lock screen state.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure in a particular gesture registration mode for switching to the second communication network in order to originate an emergency call the registration module may store in the storage module a gesture received by a camera module as particular gesture information for switching to the second communication network in order to originate the emergency call. For example a gesture image may be variously set to a facial expression a hand shape and the like.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure in a biometric registration mode for switching to the second communication network in order to originate an emergency call the registration module may store in the storage module the type e.g. a heart rate a fingerprint an iris and a blood pressure of biometric data that the user selects and reference biometric data values e.g. a reference heart rate value a fingerprint of the user an iris of the user and a blood pressure value of the user for switching to the second communication network in order to originate the emergency call. For example in the case of a heart rate the registration module may automatically or manually store in the storage module a reference heart rate value for switching to the second communication network in order to originate the emergency call. For example in the case of a fingerprint or an iris the registration module may store in the storage module the fingerprint or iris of the user for switching to the second communication network in order to originate the emergency call. For example in the case of a blood pressure the registration module may automatically or manually store in the storage module a reference blood pressure value for switching to the second communication network in order to originate the emergency call.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure when the electronic device is configured to provide a voice service through the first communication network if the electronic device attempts to originate an emergency call the identification module may identify whether at least one of conditions for switching to the second communication network satisfies a designated condition. The condition information may include at least one of location information time information information for setting a function of switching to the second communication network in order to originate an emergency call information requesting the origination of an emergency call in a lock screen state pattern information for originating an emergency call in a lock screen state particular gesture information for originating an emergency call and biometric data. At least one of conditions may be set for the electronic device . Accordingly when the at least one of conditions is satisfied the identification module may deliver to the switching module information notifying of switching to the second communication network in order to originate an emergency call.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure when condition information for switching to the second communication network in order to originate an emergency call is set for the electronic device as location information the identification module may identify current location information of the electronic device and may detect in the storage module the location information for switching to the second communication network in order to originate the emergency call. When the current location information of the electronic device is included in the detected location information for switching to the second communication network the identification module may identify that the condition information for switching to the second communication network satisfies a designated condition and may deliver to the switching module information notifying of switching to the second communication network.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure when condition information for switching to the second communication network in order to originate an emergency call is set for the electronic device as time information the identification module may identify current time and may detect in the storage module the time information for switching to the second communication network in order to originate the emergency call. When the current time information is included in the detected time information for switching to the second communication network the identification module may identify that the condition information for switching to the second communication network satisfies a designated condition and may deliver to the switching module information notifying of switching to the second communication network.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure when condition information for switching to the second communication network in order to originate an emergency call is preset for the electronic device as a function of switching to the second communication network in order to originate an emergency call the identification module may identify that the condition information for switching to the second communication network satisfies a designated condition and may deliver to the switching module information notifying of switching to the second communication network.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure when condition information for switching to the second communication network in order to originate an emergency call is set as the origination of an emergency call in a lock screen state if the electronic device attempts to originate the emergency call in the lock screen state the identification module may identify that the condition information for switching to the second communication network satisfies a designated condition and may deliver to the switching module information notifying of switching to the second communication network.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure when condition information for switching to the second communication network in order to originate an emergency call is set as the input of a pattern in a lock screen state if a pattern is input in the lock screen state of the electronic device the identification module may compare the input pattern with a pattern for originating an emergency call which is stored in the storage module . When the input pattern coincides with the pattern for originating the emergency call the identification module may identify that the condition information for switching to the second communication network satisfies a designated condition and may deliver to the switching module information notifying of switching to the second communication network.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure when condition information for switching to the second communication network in order to originate an emergency call is set as a gesture if the identification module identifies that a gesture received by the camera module coincides with a particular gesture for originating an emergency call which is stored in the storage module the identification module may identify that the condition information for switching to the second communication network satisfies a designated condition and may deliver to the switching module information notifying of switching to the second communication network.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure when condition information for switching to the second communication network in order to originate an emergency call is biometric data the identification module may compare current biometric data e.g. a heart rate a fingerprint an iris a blood pressure etc. of the user with reference biometric data values e.g. a reference heart rate value a fingerprint of the user an iris of the user a blood pressure value of the user etc. for switching to the second communication network in order to originate an emergency call which are detected in the storage module and thereby may identify whether the condition information for switching to the second communication network satisfies a designated condition. When a current heart rate value of the user received from for example a heart rate measurement unit not illustrated is greater than or equal to a reference heart rate value or when fingerprint information received from a fingerprint sensor not illustrated or iris information received from an iris sensor not illustrated coincides with pre stored fingerprint information of the user or pre stored iris information of the user or when a current blood pressure value of the user received from a blood pressure measurement unit not illustrated is greater than or equal to a reference blood pressure value the identification module may identify that the condition information for switching to the second communication network satisfies a designated condition and may deliver to the switching module information notifying of switching to the second communication network. The heart rate measurement unit the fingerprint sensor the iris sensor or the blood pressure measurement unit may be included in the electronic device or illustrated in and each of the electronic devices and may receive a heart rate value fingerprint information iris information or a blood pressure value from the electronic device or .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure when the switching module receives the information notifying of switching to the second communication network from the identification module the switching module may switch from the first communication network to the second communication network and may attempt to originate an emergency call through the second communication network. After requesting the origination of the emergency call when the switching module receives information notifying of an attempt to originate an emergency call through the first communication network from the identification module or when the switching module does not receive the information notifying of switching to the second communication network from the identification module during a predetermined time period the switching module may attempt to originate an emergency call through the first communication network. When the switching module receives the information notifying of switching to the second communication network from the identification module while the switching module attempts to originate the emergency call through the first communication network the switching module may terminate the attempt to originate the emergency call through the first communication network may switch to the second communication network and may attempt to originate an emergency call through the second communication network.

The storage module may be for example the memory illustrated in . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the storage module may store location information for switching to the second communication network in order to originate an emergency call time information for switching to the second communication network in order to originate an emergency call pattern information for originating an emergency call in a lock screen state particular gesture information for switching to the second communication network in order to originate an emergency call and biometric data for switching to the second communication network in order to originate an emergency call.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure with regard to the electronic device the first communication network is a PS network and may include an LTE network. The second communication network is a CS network and may include a 3G network. Alternatively with regard to the electronic device the first communication network is the CS network and may include the 3G network. The second communication network is the PS network and may include the LTE network.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure when the origination of an emergency call is requested in a state of a setting of providing a voice service through the first communication network the identification module may determine whether at least one of conditions for switching to the second communication network is satisfied. When the at least one of conditions for switching to the second communication network satisfies the designated condition the switching module may be configured to switch to the second communication network and to attempt to originate an emergency call through the second communication network.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the first communication network may include a PS network and the second communication network may include a CS network.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure when current location information or current time information of the electronic device is included in location information or time information for switching to the second communication network the identification module may be configured to identify that a designated condition is satisfied.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure when switching to the second communication network in order to originate an emergency call is preset for the electronic device the identification module may be configured to identify that a designated condition is satisfied.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure when the origination of an emergency call is requested in a lock screen state of the electronic device the identification module may be configured to identify that a designated condition is satisfied.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure when pattern information for originating an emergency call is input in the lock screen state of the electronic device the identification module may be configured to identify that a designated condition is satisfied.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure when a particular gesture for originating an emergency call is identified through the camera module the identification module may be configured to identify that a designated condition is satisfied.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure when current biometric data of the user satisfies biometric data for switching to the second communication network the identification module may be configured to identify that a designated condition is satisfied.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the storage module may further include a storage unit which stores condition information for switching to the second communication network. The condition information for switching to the second communication network may include at least one of location information time information information for setting a function of switching to the second communication network in order to originate an emergency call pattern information for originating an emergency call in a lock screen state particular gesture information for originating an emergency call and biometric data.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure when at least one of conditions for switching to the second communication network does not satisfy a designated condition the switching module may be configured to attempt to originate an emergency call through the first communication network.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the method for controlling an emergency call in the electronic device may include determining whether at least one of conditions for switching to a second communication network satisfies a designated condition when a request for originating the emergency call is made in a state of a setting of providing a voice service through a first communication network and switching to the second communication network and attempting to originate the emergency call when the at least one of conditions for switching to the second communication network satisfies the designated condition.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the first communication network may include a PS network and the second communication network may include a CS network.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the determining of whether the at least one of conditions for switching to the second communication network satisfies the designated condition may include identifying that the designated condition is satisfied when current location information or current time information of the electronic device is included in location information or time information for switching to the second communication network.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the determining of whether the at least one piece of condition information for switching to the second communication network satisfies the designated condition may include identifying that the designated condition is satisfied when switching to the second communication network in order to originate the emergency call is set for the electronic device.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the determining of whether the at least one of conditions for switching to the second communication network satisfies the designated condition may include identifying that the designated condition is satisfied when the request for originating the emergency call is made in a lock screen state of the electronic device.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the determining of whether the at least one piece of condition information for switching to the second communication network satisfies the designated condition may include identifying that the designated condition is satisfied when pattern information for originating an emergency call is input in a lock screen state of the electronic device.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the determining of whether the at least one of conditions for switching to the second communication network satisfies the designated condition may include identifying that the designated condition is satisfied when a particular gesture for originating an emergency call is identified through a camera module.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the determining of whether the at least one piece of condition information for switching to the second communication network satisfies the designated condition may include identifying that the designated condition is satisfied when current biometric data of a user satisfies biometric data for switching to the second communication network.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the condition information for switching to the second communication network may include at least one of location information time information information for setting a function of switching to the second communication network in order to originate an emergency call pattern information for originating an emergency call in a lock screen state particular gesture information for originating an emergency call and biometric data.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the switching to the second communication network may include attempting to originate the emergency call through the first communication network when at least one of conditions for switching to the second communication network does not satisfy a designated condition.

The processor may include one or more Application Processors APs or one or more Communication Processors CPs . The processor may be for example the processor illustrated in . In the AP and the CP are illustrated as being included in the processor . However the AP and the CP may be included in different Integrated Circuit IC packages respectively. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the AP and the CP may be included in one IC package.

The AP may control a plurality of hardware or software components connected to the AP by executing an operating system or an application program and may perform processing of and arithmetic operations on various data including multimedia data. The AP may be implemented as for example a System on Chip SoC . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the processor may further include a Graphics Processing Unit GPU not illustrated .

The CP may manage a data link and may convert between communication protocols in communication between the electronic device and another electronic device connected to the electronic device through a network. The CP may be implemented as for example a SoC. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the CP may perform at least some of multimedia control functions. The CP may identify and authenticate the electronic device in a communication network by using for example a subscriber identity module e.g. the SIM card . Also the CP may provide the user with services such as a voice telephone call a video telephone call a text message packet data and the like.

Further the CP may control the transmission and reception of data by the communication module . In elements such as the CP the power management module the memory and the like are illustrated as elements separated from the AP . However according to an embodiment of the present disclosure the AP may be implemented to include at least some e.g. the CP of the above described elements.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the AP or the CP may load into a volatile memory commands or data received from at least one of a non volatile memory or other elements which are connected to each of the AP and the CP and may process the commands or data. Also the AP or the CP may store in a non volatile memory data which has been received from or generated by at least one of other element.

The SIM card may be a card implementing a subscriber identity module and may be inserted into a slot formed in a particular portion of the electronic device . The SIM card may include unique identification information e.g. an Integrated Circuit Card IDentifier ICCID or subscriber information e.g. International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI .

The memory may include an internal memory and an external memory . The memory may be for example the memory illustrated in . The internal memory may include for example at least one of a volatile memory e.g. a Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM a Static RAM SRAM a Synchronous DRAM SDRAM etc. and a non volatile memory e.g. a One Time Programmable Read Only Memory OTPROM a Programmable ROM PROM an Erasable and Programmable ROM EPROM an Electrically Erasable and Programmable ROM EEPROM a mask ROM a flash ROM a NAND flash memory a NOR flash memory etc. . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the internal memory may be a Solid State Drive SSD . The external memory may further include a flash drive for example a Compact Flash CF a Secure Digital SD a Micro Secure Digital Micro SD a Mini Secure Digital Mini SD an extreme Digital xD a memory stick or the like. The external memory may be functionally connected to the electronic device through various interfaces.

Although not illustrated the electronic device may further include a storage apparatus or a storage medium such as a hard drive device.

The communication module may include a wireless communication module or a Radio Frequency RF module . The communication module may be included in for example the communication module illustrated in . The wireless communication module may include for example Wi Fi Bluetooth BT a Global Positioning System GPS or a Near Field Communication NFC . For example the wireless communication module may provide a wireless communication function using a radio frequency. Additionally or alternatively the wireless communication module may include a network interface e.g. a LAN card a modem or the like for connecting the electronic device to a network e.g. the Internet a Local Area Network LAN a Wide Area Network WAN a telecommunication network a cellular network a satellite network a Plain Old Telephone Service POTS etc. . In some embodiments the communication module supports both a PS network and a CS network and has a switch for switching between the PS network and CS network.

The RF module may process transmission and reception of a voice signal or a data signal. The RF module although not illustrated may include for example a transceiver a Power Amp Module PAM a frequency filter a Low Noise Amplifier LNA or the like. Also the RF module may further include a component e.g. a conductor a conductive wire etc. for transmitting and receiving electromagnetic waves in a free space in wireless communication.

The sensor module may include at least one of for example a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B an atmospheric pressure sensor C a magnetic sensor D an acceleration sensor E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G a Red Green Blue RGB sensor H a biometric sensor I a temperature humidity sensor J an illuminance sensor K an Ultraviolet UV sensor M and an Infrared IR sensor not illustrated . The sensor module may measure physical quantities or sense an operation state of the electronic device and may convert the measured or sensed information into an electric signal. Additionally or alternatively the sensor module may include for example an E nose sensor not illustrated an Electromyography EMG sensor not illustrated an Electroencephalogram EEG sensor not illustrated an Electrocardiogram ECG sensor not illustrated a fingerprint sensor and the like. The sensor module may further include a control circuit for controlling one or more sensors included therein.

The input module may include a touch panel a digital pen sensor a key or an ultrasonic input unit . The input module may be included in for example the input output interface illustrated in . The touch panel may be of at least one of for example a capacitive type a resistive type an infrared type and an acoustic wave type and may detect a touch input. Also the touch panel may further include a controller not illustrated . A capacitive type touch panel may detect not only physical contact but also proximity. The touch panel may further include a tactile function. In this case the touch panel may provide a tactile response to the user.

The digital pen sensor may be implemented by using for example a method identical or similar to a method of receiving a touch input from the user or a separate sheet for recognition. The key may include for example a physical button. Alternatively the key may include for example an optical key a key pad or a touch key. The ultrasonic input unit enables a terminal to identify data in such a manner as to detect an acoustic wave by using a microphone e.g. a microphone through an input means for generating an ultrasonic signal. The ultrasonic input device is capable of wireless recognition. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may receive a user input from an external device e.g. a network a computer or a server which is connected to the electronic device through the communication module .

The display may include a panel a hologram or a projector . The display may be for example the display module illustrated in . The panel may be for example a Liquid Crystal Display LCD an Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diode AMOLED display and the like. The panel may be implemented so as to be for example flexible transparent or wearable. The panel and the touch panel may be integrated into one module. The hologram may display a three dimensional image in the air by using the interference of light. The projector may display an image on an external screen through the projection of light. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the display may further include a control circuit for controlling the panel the hologram or the projector .

The interface may include for example a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI a Universal Serial Bus USB an optical communication or a D subminiature D sub . The communication module may be included in for example the communication module illustrated in . Additionally or alternatively the interface may include for example a Secure Digital SD Multimedia Card MMC not illustrated or an Infrared Data Association IrDA not illustrated .

The audio module may bilaterally convert a sound and an electronic signal. The audio module may be included in for example the input output interface illustrated in . The audio module may process sound information which is input or output through for example a speaker a receiver an earphone the microphone or the like.

The camera module is an apparatus capable of capturing an image and a moving image. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the camera module may include one or more image sensors e.g. a front side sensor or a rear side sensor a lens an Image Signal Processor ISP not illustrated or a flash not illustrated e.g. an LED or a xenon lamp .

The power management module may manage power of the electronic device . Although not illustrated the power management module may include for example a Power Management Integrated Circuit PMIC a charger Integrated Circuit IC or a battery fuel gauge.

The PMIC may be mounted to for example an IC or a SoC semiconductor. Charging methods may be classified into a wired charging method and a wireless charging method. The charger IC may charge the battery and may prevent an overvoltage or an overcurrent from a charger to the battery. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the charger IC may include a charger IC for at least one of the wired charging method and the wireless charging method. Examples of the wireless charging method may include a magnetic resonance method a magnetic induction method an electromagnetic method and the like. Additional circuits e.g. a coil loop a resonance circuit a rectifier etc. for wireless charging may be added.

The battery fuel gauge may measure for example a residual quantity of the battery or a voltage a current or a temperature during the charging. The battery may store electricity and may supply power. The battery may include for example a rechargeable battery or a solar battery.

The indicator may indicate particular states e.g. a booting state a message state a charging state etc. of the electronic device or a part e.g. the AP of the electronic device . The motor may convert an electrical signal into a mechanical vibration.

Although not illustrated the electronic device may include a processing unit for example GPU for mobile TV support. The processing unit for supporting the mobile TV may process for example media data according to a standard of a Digital Multimedia Broadcasting DMB a Digital Video Broadcasting DVB a media flow or the like.

Each of the components of the electronic device according to the present disclosure may be implemented by one or more components and the name of the corresponding component may vary depending on a type of the electronic device. The electronic device according to the present disclosure may include one or more of the aforementioned components or may further include other additional components or some of the aforementioned components may be omitted. Further some of the components of the electronic device according to the present disclosure may be combined to be one entity which may perform the same functions as those of the components before the combination.

The term module used in the present disclosure may refer to for example a unit including one or more combinations of hardware software and firmware. The module may be interchangeable with a term such as a unit a logic a logical block a component or a circuit. The module may be a minimum unit of an integrated component element or a part thereof. The module may be a minimum unit for performing one or more functions or a part thereof. The module may be mechanically or electronically implemented. For example the module according to the present disclosure may include at least one of an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC chip a Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGA and a programmable logic device for performing operations which has been known or are to be developed hereinafter.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure in a storage medium which is storing commands the commands are set to cause at least one processor to perform at least one operation when the commands are executed by the at least one processor. The at least one operation may include determining whether at least one piece of condition information for switching to a second communication network satisfies a designated condition when a request for originating an emergency call is made in a state of a setting of providing a voice service through a first communication network and switching to the second communication network and attempting to originate the emergency call when the at least one of conditions for switching to the second communication network satisfies the designated condition.

The electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may receive and store a program including commands which cause the electronic device to perform the method for originating an emergency call from a program providing apparatus to which the electronic device is connected by wire or wirelessly. The electronic device or the server illustrated in may be the program providing apparatus. The program providing device may include a memory for storing the program a communication module to execute wired or wireless communication with an electronic device and a processor that transmits a corresponding program to the electronic device automatically or in response to the electronic device.

Although the present disclosure has been described with an exemplary embodiment various changes and modifications may be suggested to one skilled in the art. It is intended that the present disclosure encompass such changes and modifications as fall within the scope of the appended claims.

