---

title: Exponential moving maximum (EMM) filter for predictive analytics in network reporting
abstract: Techniques for an exponential moving maximum (EMM) filter for predictive analytics in network reporting are disclosed. In some embodiments, a process for predictive analytics in network reporting using an EMM filter includes pre-processing network-related data by performing exponential moving maximum (EMM) filtering on the network-related data; and determining predictive analytics based on the EMM filtered network-related data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09602462&OS=09602462&RS=09602462
owner: Infoblox Inc.
number: 09602462
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150417
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 048 971 entitled EXPONENTIAL MOVING MAXIMUM EMM FILTER FOR PREDICTIVE ANALYTICS IN NETWORK REPORTING filed Sep. 11 2014 which is incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.

Predictive analytics generally refers to techniques for analyzing historical and or current data corresponding to one or more events to formulate predictions about future events based on historical and or current data. For example predictive analytics can apply various statistical and or analytical techniques from data mining modeling regression and or machine learning techniques to analyze data in order to make predictions based on historical and or current data.

The invention can be implemented in numerous ways including as a process an apparatus a system a composition of matter a computer program product embodied on a computer readable storage medium and or a processor such as a processor configured to execute instructions stored on and or provided by a memory coupled to the processor. In this specification these implementations or any other form that the invention may take may be referred to as techniques. In general the order of the steps of disclosed processes may be altered within the scope of the invention. Unless stated otherwise a component such as a processor or a memory described as being configured to perform a task may be implemented as a general component that is temporarily configured to perform the task at a given time or a specific component that is manufactured to perform the task. As used herein the term processor refers to one or more devices circuits and or processing cores configured to process data such as computer program instructions.

A detailed description of one or more embodiments of the invention is provided below along with accompanying figures that illustrate the principles of the invention. The invention is described in connection with such embodiments but the invention is not limited to any embodiment. The scope of the invention is limited only by the claims and the invention encompasses numerous alternatives modifications and equivalents. Numerous specific details are set forth in the following description in order to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. These details are provided for the purpose of example and the invention may be practiced according to the claims without some or all of these specific details. For the purpose of clarity technical material that is known in the technical fields related to the invention has not been described in detail so that the invention is not unnecessarily obscured.

Predictive analytics generally refers to techniques for analyzing historical and or current data corresponding to one or more events to formulate predictions about future events based on historical and or current data. For example predictive analytics can apply various statistical and or analytical techniques from data mining modeling regression and or machine learning techniques to analyze data in order to make predictions based on historical and or current data.

Predictive analytics can be applied to technology fields such as network reporting. Network reporting tools exist to provide various event alert historical and predictive reporting for data communication networks such as computer networks. For example network reporting tools can be used to provide operational information for monitoring a computer network e.g. an enterprise network including events faults capacity and or other aspects associated with network infrastructure including devices associated with the network e.g. Domain Name Server DNS servers appliances routers switches security devices appliances etc. .

Existing network reporting tools generally apply basic prediction algorithms. Basic prediction algorithms include for example linear extrapolation quadratic filter Kalman filter and seasonality estimation.

Overview of Techniques for an Exponential Moving Maximum EMM Filter for Predictive Analytics for Network Reporting

An important area in predictive analytics is trend prediction or forecast. Trend prediction can be used to provide a moving trend for future based on what has happened such as based on historical and or current data. For example trend prediction for peak resource usages can be used by information technology IT departments to facilitate effective budgeting and IT hardware preparation for an IT data center e.g. capacity planning and requirements for an enterprise network infrastructure .

However unlike other real world data that generally embeds strong trend data though covered by some fluctuations peak resource usage data by nature often does not fall into a regular trend. Therefore traditional predictive analytics techniques generally do not perform well in prediction analytics when the data includes such irregular data e.g. data that includes such fluctuations such as peak resource usage data for network resource usage .

In one embodiment techniques for predictive analytics in network reporting that implement an exponential moving maximum EMM filter are disclosed. For example the disclosed new filtering technique e.g. an EMM filter can be applied to data that includes irregular data e.g. data that includes significant fluctuations such as in peak resource usage data for an IT data center such as further described below.

For example transaction can be used as a conceptual term to generally refer to an event that occurred on a network a database or some other IT related event. In this example a typical measure can be a number of transactions per second TPS or over some other time frame. A peak value is the maximum value of TPS over the timespan of interest. For instance an hourly peak value is the maximum TPS for each hour. Unlike some other statistic compositions such as average or total volume value peak values may not fall into a trend at lower granularity levels.

In some cases hourly peak values may be greatly fluctuated rather than smoothly trended. However when the view of such data is zoomed out to higher granularity levels such as daily weekly or monthly the data in many cases can reveal trends. That is because the time frame boundaries can often play a role that affects the smoothness or trend formation at a given granularity level which is generally referred to herein as the time frame boundary effect. In order to overcome this time frame boundary effect an EMM filter is disclosed as further described below.

In some embodiments a system for predictive analytics in network reporting using an EMM filter includes a processor configured to pre process network related data by performing exponential moving maximum EMM filtering on the network related data and determine predictive analytics based on the EMM filtered network related data and a memory coupled to the processor and configured to provide the processor with instructions.

For example a trend prediction can be generated based on the EMM filtered network related data and a visualization e.g. graph chart report etc. can be generated to display the trend prediction. In some cases the network related data includes monitored network events data. For example the network related data includes DNS data e.g. DNS query and DNS response data .

In one embodiment the network related data is received and or collected from one or more network devices. For example DNS data can be collected from an agent executed on a DNS appliance. The received collected network related data can be stored in a data store for aggregation and analysis such as further described below.

In some embodiments a process for predictive analytics in network reporting using an EMM filter includes pre processing network related data by performing exponential moving maximum EMM filtering on the network related data and determining predictive analytics based on the EMM filtered network related data.

In some embodiments a computer program product for predictive analytics in network reporting using an EMM filter includes pre processing network related data by performing exponential moving maximum EMM filtering on the network related data and determining predictive analytics based on the EMM filtered network related data.

Generally DNS and Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol DHCP are common network services deployed in the network infrastructure for a variety of organizations e.g. a significant amount of network traffic on enterprise networks utilizes DNS and or DHCP network services . DNS appliances can provide these DNS and DHCP network services for enterprise networks e.g. DNS appliances are commercially available from Infoblox Inc. and or other vendors . A DNS appliance that provides these DNS and DHCP network services often also includes or is integrated compatible with a network reporting system software. For example the network reporting system software can provide summarized reports and or visual graphical representations of information about the system status resource usage performance metrics and or monitored network data trends e.g. DNS DHCP network data trends . Furthermore it can be desirable and important to provide predictions e.g. trend predictions based on monitored network data measurements so that users e.g. IT network admin managers can be well prepared for what is going to happen to prevent downtime such as to facilitate improved capacity planning for the network infrastructure of the organization. Among the predictive measures there are many that reflect peak or maximum values such as peak volume or resource usage. For example a peak value prediction can be useful for the IT managers to ensure its organization is ahead of the cycles in terms of the network capacity. There are existing approaches for trend prediction of time series data. However as similarly discussed above peak values often do not fall into a trend by nature. As a result traditional trend prediction approaches do not perform well when applied to this type of data. Accordingly as further described herein a filtering technique referred to herein as exponential moving maximum EMM filtering is disclosed. The disclosed EMM filtering technique can be applied before applying a prediction algorithm on peak time series data. As also described below various results based on DNS related time series data are provided for comparison of predictive analytics in network reporting performed using an EMM filter and without using the EMM filter.

In an example use case scenario the disclosed techniques for predictive analytics in network reporting using an EMM filter can be implemented in a network reporting tool such as provided by a network reporting software product and or appliance e.g. such as the Infoblox Reporting solutions appliances commercially available from Infoblox Inc. and or other network reporting related products services from other vendors such as other network reporting platforms available from Splunk Corporation and or similar network reporting platforms available from other vendors or open source projects . For example the disclosed techniques for predictive analytics in network reporting using an EMM filter can be implemented in a network reporting tool to perform enhanced trend prediction such as in peak resource usage data for an IT data center such as further described below.

In another example use case scenario the disclosed techniques for predictive analytics in network reporting using an EMM filter can be implemented as an EMM plug in that can be configured to be a compatible plug in for one or more network reporting tools such as provided by a network reporting tool software product and or appliance e.g. such as the Infoblox Reporting solutions appliances commercially available from Infoblox Inc. and or other network reporting related products services from other vendors such as other network reporting platforms available from Splunk Corporation and or similar network reporting platforms available from other vendors or open source projects . For example the EMM plug in can be provided as a commercially available and or open source plug in for various network reporting tools such as further described below.

In yet another example use case scenario the disclosed techniques for predictive analytics in network reporting using an EMM filter can be applied to DNS related network data e.g. DNS query data DHCP lease data etc. that can facilitate various opportunities when applied to such historical and or current DNS related network data using various disclosed analytical techniques as further described herein. The predictive analytics in network reporting using an EMM filter applied to DNS related network data can facilitate identification of various network usage patterns to cope with changing demands. The predictive analytics in network reporting using an EMM filter applied to DNS related network data can also facilitate prediction of time potential bottlenecks in a complex network deployment e.g. an enterprise network . The predictive analytics in network reporting using an EMM filter applied to DNS related network data can also facilitate IT network management for an enterprise network e.g. to help maintain overall network availability . The predictive analytics in network reporting using an EMM filter applied to DNS related network data can also assist in IT network capacity and usage planning e.g. to improve capacity planning .

As further described below an EMM filter is disclosed to provide new and improved preprocessing techniques that can preserve local maximum values from the historical current time series data to facilitate more accurate prediction for network reporting. In an example implementation an EMM filter is implemented as an EMM plug in for a network reporting platform e.g. the commercially available Splunk platform and or another network reporting platform . As further described below independent of any prediction function to perform trend prediction on the pre processed time series data the disclosed EMM filter can provide improved performance on non stationary data with any prediction function s technique s .

As further described below these and various other features and techniques are disclosed for predictive analytics in network reporting using an EMM filter.

System Architecture for Providing an Exponential Moving Maximum EMM Filter for Predictive Analytics for Network Reporting

In one embodiment the network reporting system which can be for example integrated with a reporting tool platform on which such applications and or plug ins can execute such as similarly described herein includes a graphical user interface GUI to represent the trend prediction s based on the filtered network event data. For example the GUI of the network application can provide new insights to an IT network admin manager by providing a report s and or a graphical representation s e.g. graphical visualization such as a graph or chart of the trend prediction s based on the filtered network event data such as further described below. As such the network reporting system is a tool for an IT network admin manager that provides new and improved predictions e.g. trend predictions based on monitored network data measurements e.g. DNS related time series data and or other network measurements . For instance the disclosed network reporting system can facilitate improved capacity planning for the network infrastructure of the organization such as further described below.

Referring to an activity diagram of a system for predictive analytics in network reporting using an EMM filter initiates at with a network IT admin for a network e.g. an enterprise network using a configuration admin interface e.g. of the network reporting system or of a console management interface for the network devices to perform a configuration of network devices e.g. Domain Name Server DNS devices and or other network devices such as Software Defined Networking SDN or physical network devices in the network e.g. the enterprise network at . For example the configuration can include identifying and or configuring network devices in the network e.g. the enterprise network from which to collect event data e.g. to receive DNS response log data from such DNS devices so that the desired DNS response log data can be pushed or pulled for such collection and or tapping network DNS data from SDN virtual network devices such as OpenFlow switches . The network devices at and provide monitored network event data at and e.g. DNS response data and or other network event data monitored by the network devices on the enterprise network . The network reporting system collects the monitored network event data at . The network reporting system filters the monitored network event data using an EMM filter at . In an example implementation positive DNS responses can serve as a basic and reliable indicator for interactions between endpoints e.g. in most networks DNS responses are indicative of a significant portion of interactions between endpoints such as sessions or other connections that indicate interactions between endpoints . The network reporting system performs trend prediction on the filtered network event data at . In an example implementation the network reporting system can generate a graphical representation e.g. a graphical visualization based on these trend predictions and filtered network event data. For example various graphs charts tables reports and or alerts that illustrate and or summarize these trend predictions and filtered network event data can be generated such as further described below.

As shown system includes an admin configuration interface . For example the admin configuration interface can provide a user interface e.g. and in some cases a programmatic interface such as through API s which can be used by an application network application for accessing various functions services provided by the network reporting system for configuring the network reporting system to collect various network event data and or to generate various graphical visualizations and or reports based on the filtered and analyzed network event data such as similarly described above and further described below.

As also shown system includes a collector interface . For example the collector interface can collect endpoint interaction data from one or more collectors such as DNS response data collected from a DNS device and or SDN virtual network devices such as OpenFlow switches as similarly described above with respect to . In an example implementation the collector interface includes a controller e.g. an SDN controller for configuring and communicating with an SDN device s e.g. an OpenFlow switch .

As also shown system includes an EMM filter . For example the EMM filter can filter the collected network event data using various EMM filtering techniques disclosed herein. System also includes an analyzer . For example the analyzer can perform an analysis of the filtered network event data using various analytical techniques such as to perform one or more trend prediction algorithms based on the filtered network event data as similarly described above and further described below. In an example implementation the analyzer can also include the EMM filter for filtering the collected network event data as similarly described above and further described below. In another example implementation the EMM filter is provided as a plug in for the network reporting system for filtering the collected network event data as similarly described above and further described below.

As also shown system includes a graphics visualizer . For example the graphics visualizer can generate graphical representations such as graphs charts and or tables of the filtered and analyzed network event data as similarly described above and further described below. In an example implementation the graphics visualizer is implemented using a commercially available or open source graphics package such as the open source JavaScript library D3.js for graph visualization available at d3js.org and or using graphics visualization capabilities of commercially available network reporting tools.

As also shown system includes a reporting user interface UI . For example the reporting UI can generate reports based on the filtered and analyzed network event data and or graphical representations based on the filtered and analyzed network event data generated using graphics visualizer as similarly described above and further described below. As an example the reporting UI can be configured to generate alerts based on the filtered and analyzed network event data e.g. based on default and or customized configuration settings to generate alerts based on various events thresholds associated with the filtered and analyzed network event data such as if a trend prediction indicates that a network capacity resource availability for usage of the enterprise network is predicted to be exceeded within a predetermined period of time etc. as similarly described above and further described below.

Each of these components is further described below with respect to various embodiments. In some implementations one or more of these components can be performed by another device e.g. another computing device such as using a distributed computing architecture a cloud based service environment and or a virtualized computing environment or component such as the collector interface can be performed using another device or component. In some implementations one or more of these components can be integrated such as the EMM filter and analyzer component s can be implemented as an integrated component of the network application and or platform e.g. the EMM filter can be provided as a plug in to a network reporting tool such as further described below . In some implementations a subset of these functions components can be included in the network reporting system. In some implementations additional components such as a database e.g. an in memory database for storing the collected network event data and for storing the filtered analyzed collected network event data can be included in the network reporting system. In some implementations one or more of these components can be implemented using programmed hardware e.g. ASICs FPGAs and or using combinations of computing hardware and software executed on the computing hardware e.g. software executed on a computer micro processor .

For example system can implement the activities described above with respect to and can also be used to implement and execute the network reporting system for the enterprise network as described above with respect to . For example collected network event data can be processed using CPU and RAM and stored in storage .

In an example implementation the network reporting system can be executed on commercial off the shelf COTS hardware e.g. server class hardware or in some cases a laptop or desktop computer . In this example implementation the network reporting system is easy to deploy requiring very little change to existing network infrastructure e.g. of an enterprise network on which the network reporting system can be deployed for monitoring and analyzing network event data such as further described below .

In another example implementation as will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art the various techniques disclosed herein for filtering and analyzing the collected network event data can also be implemented using separate systems such as Hadoop or Spark for analytics and feeding the data collected by a separate mechanism.

Referring to a DNS data collector collects DNS related network event data e.g. DNS response data and or other DNS related network event data from a switch router and a DNS appliance . DNS data collector provides the collected DNS related network event data to DNS stream of network reporting tool . As also shown network reporting tool includes an event loader . Event loader can be configured to load collected network event data such as collected DNS related network event data which is aggregated by an event aggregator . The aggregated event data is filtered using EMM filter . The filtered event data is analyzed for trends prediction using a forecast component . The filtered and analyzed event data is presented for graphical representation using a visualization component .

In an example implementation the event loader event aggregator and visualization components can be provided using commercially available network reporting tools platforms e.g. such as the Infoblox Reporting solutions appliances commercially available from Infoblox Inc. and or other network reporting related products services from other vendors such as other network reporting platforms available from Splunk Corporation and or similar network reporting platforms available from other vendors or open source projects . Example implementations of the EMM and forecast components are further described below.

Techniques for Providing an Exponential Moving Maximum EMM Filter for Predictive Analytics for Network Reporting

As similarly described above tools exist for performing trend prediction or forecasting on time series data. Many of the existing approaches adopt some type of moving average techniques for extracting trends with removal of so called non stationarity or noise. For example an AutoRegressive Integrated Moving Average ARIMA model is a commonly used approach e.g. a description of the ARIMA model is provided by Asteriou Dimitros Hall Stephen G. 2011 ARIMA Models and the Box Jenkins Methodology Applied Econometrics Second Edition . Palgrave MacMillan pp. 265 286 .

In many cases users e.g. IT network admins managers are interested in identifying a trend of peak value data and furthermore to determine a prediction based on that trend e.g. a prediction for a future trend based on the current and or historical time series data . For example a trend prediction forecast for the DNS query data with hourly maximum peak values can be applied by an IT network admin manager to determine whether the DNS network servers appliances can support the future DNS services demand for the enterprise network or whether additional DNS appliances servers should be deployed on the enterprise network to support the future DNS services demand based on the trend prediction forecast e.g. DNS servers appliances deployed on an enterprise network generally should be able to handle peak load for DNS query traffic as further discussed below . Therefore users can have means to assess the capacities of network equipment because the purchase and deployment will take a long time.

Referring to when a traditional prediction algorithm is applied to the time series data the information about the local maximums e.g. peak values is smoothed out. Specifically an example that is the result of prediction provided by applying the Splunk predict method e.g. available from Splunk Corporation see www.splunk.com in which the Splunk predict method implements for example a linear model and or a seasonal model with a known period is shown at of . Due to the nature of na ve prediction algorithms local maximums are smoothed out from the historical time series data as shown in this example.

For example DNS servers appliances in an IT data center e.g. deployed on an enterprise network generally should be able to handle peak load for DNS query traffic. As such smoothing of time series data for DNS query traffic that eliminates local peaks is undesirable as such does not facilitate accurate trend predictions that generally should identify such peaks e.g. for IT data center capacity resource usage and planning such as for DNS servers appliances . As such techniques for providing an EMM filter for predictive analytics for network reporting are disclosed as further described below.

As such techniques for providing an EMM filter for predictive analytics for network reporting are disclosed as further described below. In one embodiment an EMM filter aggregates historical values e.g. of a set of time series data associated with a data center enterprise network which can be applied for network reporting such as similarly described herein with a maximum aggregator so that the historical values can contribute to their following values with an impact that decays exponentially with time.

As such this is the EMM representation in a recursive format that simplifies memory complexity to O 1 for implementation.

In one embodiment trend prediction is performed on time series data e.g. DNS DHCP or other network related time series data that has been smoothed using the EMM filter. In an example implementation the trend prediction is performed using the Splunk built in trend prediction feature as similarly described above. For example the Splunk built in trend prediction feature includes an easy to use user interface and Software Development Kit SDK for customization. As would be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art various other commercially available open source or custom implemented trend prediction products packages can be used to perform the disclosed EMM filtering applied to various network related time series data using different prediction algorithms implementations.

In one embodiment the EMM filter is provided as a plug in to a network reporting platform. For example Splunk provides an SDK for users to develop custom commands as plug ins to the Splunk network reporting platform.

In an example implementation a custom command named emm is developed in Python e.g. or another programming language can be similarly used to implement the EMM filter as a plug in and plugged into the Splunk platform as a plug in. In this example implementation the syntax of the custom command named emm is as follows.

where i is a floating point value between 0 and 1.0 to represent and w is an integer value equivalent to the timespan. For instance for hourly time series data w 72 has a window size of one month.

In one embodiment the native Splunk command predict e.g. the built in Splunk predict function is customized into a new command forecast as similarly described above. In this example implementation the syntax of the custom command named forecast is as follows.

The forecast option is similar to the options for the command predict except for some fields that have different default values customized.

In an example implementation such as similarly described above with respect to the EMM filter as shown at of and the forecast function as shown at of can be implemented as custom commands to the Splunk platform e.g. the EMM filter can be implemented as a plug in for the Splunk network reporting application platform and the forecast function can be a customized implementation of the Splunk predict function such as for enhanced post processing which can enhance prediction capabilities and generate more accurate predictions based on current historical data for network reporting such as further described below . In this example implementation the prediction process with EMM filtering can be pipelined similar to most of the Splunk queries. An example of the sequence for the prediction process is shown in in which event data files are loaded into the Splunk platform at of a query is submitted to start the prediction process and the query starts from event aggregation with use of the Splunk aggregation functions as shown at of .

source dns.txt rex P t t P. timechart span 10 m max dns as dns emm dns inheritance 0.7 window 4320 timechart span mon max emm as emm forecast emm future timespan 3

EMM filtering is then performed on aggregated time series data e.g. DNS stream at of e.g. to further aggregate EMM output into a coarse level desired by the prediction objective . At of a custom forecast command is executed to generate a prediction result e.g. a trend prediction based on the EMM filtered time series data .

At of a graphic visualization of the prediction result is generated using Splunk visualization functions. The screen shot of illustrates the output of the Splunk prediction with an EMM plug in in this example implementation. As shown the screen shot provides a visualization of the EMM filtered historical current time series data and the forecast based on the EMM filtered historical current time series data as shown in the chart at . As also shown the query command pipe in Splunk is shown at .

Referring to a network reporting platform e.g. the commercially available Splunk platform or another network reporting platform that similarly supports plug ins includes a query aggregation component . For example the query aggregation component can perform event loader and event aggregator functions as similarly described above with respect to . A filter plug in is provided as a plug in to the network reporting platform as shown. For example the filter plug in can perform EMM filter functions as similarly described above with respect to . An example implementation of such an EMM filter plug in is further described below.

As also shown network reporting platform e.g. the commercially available Splunk platform or another network reporting platform that similarly supports plug ins includes a prediction component . For example the prediction component can perform the Splunk predict function as similarly described above. A post processing plug in is provided as a plug in to the network reporting platform as shown.

In an example implementation a forecast function can be provided as a customized implementation of the Splunk predict function that can be implemented as a plug in for the Splunk platform. For example prediction component and post processing plug in can perform forecast functions as similarly described above with respect to . An example implementation of such a post processing plug in is further described below.

As also shown network reporting platform e.g. the commercially available Splunk platform or another network reporting platform that similarly supports plug ins includes a visualization component . For example the visualization component can perform visualization functions as similarly described above with respect to .

In an example implementation the filtering plug in and or the post processing plug in are programmed using the Python programming language e.g. and or another programming scripting language . For example the filtering plug in and or the post processing plug in can be provided as commercially available plug ins and or open source plug ins for one or more network reporting platforms.

In another example implementation the filtering and or post processing components can be integrated with various other network reporting platforms using an application programming interface s API s such as restful API s that facilitate third party integration. In yet another example implementation the filtering and or post processing components can be integrated natively by a network reporting application platform. In yet another example implementation the filtering and or post processing components can be integrated in other network reporting tools such as third party libraries e.g. R Predict method for Linear Model Fits Mahout linear regression Matlab Parametric Trend Estimation Python statistics library Ipredict Q Forecasting and or other third party libraries .

At network related data is received. For example the network related data can include monitored network events data such as DNS data e.g. DNS query and DNS response data .

At pre processing the network related data by performing EMM filtering on the network related data is performed. In an example implementation EMM filtering is implemented by an EMM filter plug in for the network reporting platform such as similarly described above.

At predictive analytics are determined based on the EMM filtered network related data. For example a trend prediction can be generated based on the EMM filtered network related data such as similarly described above.

At network event data is received. For example the network event data can include monitored network events data such as DNS data e.g. DNS query and DNS response data . In an example implementation DNS data can be collected from network devices which can include physical network devices e.g. DNS servers appliances virtual network devices and or software defined networking SDN devices e.g. OpenFlow switches .

At the network event data is aggregated. For example the network event data can be aggregated using an event aggregator such as similarly described above with respect to .

At pre processing the network event data by performing EMM filtering on the network event data is performed. In an example implementation EMM filtering is implemented by an EMM filter plug in for the network reporting platform such as similarly described above.

At a trend prediction is generated based on the EMM filtered network event data. For example the trend prediction can be generated using a forecast component such as similarly described above with respect to .

At a visualization is generated based on the trend prediction. For example the visualization e.g. graph chart report etc. can be generated using a visualization component such as similarly described above with respect to .

For example the visualization of the trend prediction can provide new insights to a network operator admin. As such the network reporting application platform is a tool for a network operator admin that provides new and improved techniques for trend prediction for certain types of network event types of data as similarly described above. For instance the disclosed enhanced trend prediction techniques for network reporting can be applied to facilitate network capacity planning such as similarly described above.

Although the foregoing embodiments have been described in some detail for purposes of clarity of understanding the invention is not limited to the details provided. There are many alternative ways of implementing the invention. The disclosed embodiments are illustrative and not restrictive.

