---

title: Locally providing cloud storage array services
abstract: Locally providing cloud storage array services for a storage array of a data center when the storage array is not connected to a remote cloud-based storage array services provider includes initiating, by a primary storage array, one or more cloud storage array services and locally providing the cloud storage array services. Such local providing of the cloud storage array services also includes generating, by the cloud storage array services, metadata describing one or more real-time storage array characteristics and presenting the metadata to a user through a local area network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09521200&OS=09521200&RS=09521200
owner: Pure Storage, Inc.
number: 09521200
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150611
---
This application is a continuation application of and claims priority from U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 721 571 filed on May 26 2015.

The field of technology is data processing or more specifically methods apparatus and products for providing cloud storage array services for a storage array of a data center when the storage array is not connected to a remote cloud based storage array services provider.

Data centers may include many computing components including servers network devices and storage arrays. As the need for storage of large amounts of data and efficient access to that data increases storage array technology is advancing. Such storage arrays may provide persistent storage for any number of computing devices in a data center. Given that many data centers provide services to many different users various considerations must be taken into account to provide efficient useful and secure access to and administration of storage arrays. Various management tools reporting services and the like may be implemented for storage array through cloud based service providers. In some implementations however such cloud based service providers may be unavailable either by design or through a loss of connection.

Methods apparatus and products for locally providing cloud storage array services for a storage array of a data center when the storage array is not connected to a remote cloud based storage array services provider are disclosed in this specification. Providing such cloud storage array services in accordance with embodiments of the present invention includes initiating by a primary storage array one or more cloud storage array services and locally providing the cloud storage array services including generating by the cloud storage array services metadata describing one or more real time storage array characteristics and presenting the metadata to a user through a local area network.

The foregoing and other objects features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the following more particular descriptions of exemplary embodiments of the invention as illustrated in the accompanying drawings wherein like reference numbers generally represent like parts of exemplary embodiments of the invention.

Exemplary methods apparatus and products for providing cloud storage array services for a storage array of a data center when the storage array is not connected to a remote cloud based storage array services provider in accordance with the present invention are described with reference to the accompanying drawings beginning with . The term cloud as used in this specification refers to systems and computing environments that provide services to user devices through the sharing of computing resources through a network. Generally the user device is unaware of the exact computing resources utilized by the cloud system to provide the services. Although in many cases such cloud environments or systems are accessible via the Internet readers of skill in the art will recognize that any system that abstracts the use of shared resources to provide services to a user through any network may be considered a cloud based system.

The computing devices in the example of are coupled for data communications to a number of storage arrays through a storage area network SAN as well as a local area network LAN . The SAN may be implemented with a variety of data communications fabrics devices and protocols. Example fabrics for such a SAN may include Fibre Channel Ethernet Infiniband SAS Serial Attached Small Computer System Interface and the like. Example data communications protocols for use in such a SAN may include ATA Advanced Technology Attachment Fibre Channel Protocol SCSI iSCSI HyperSCSI and others. Readers of skill in the art will recognize that a SAN is just one among many possible data communications couplings which may be implemented between a computing device and a storage array. Any other such data communications coupling is well within the scope of embodiments of the present invention.

The local area network of may also be implemented with a variety of fabrics and protocols. Examples of such fabrics include Ethernet 802.3 wireless 802.11 and the like. Examples of such data communications protocols include TCP Transmission Control Protocol UDP User Datagram Protocol IP Internet Protocol HTTP HyperText Transfer Protocol WAP Wireless Access Protocol HDTP Handheld Device Transport Protocol SIP Session Initiation Protocol RTP Real Time Protocol and others as will occur to those of skill in the art.

The example storage arrays of provide persistent data storage for the computing devices. Each storage array includes a storage controller . The storage controller is a module of automated computing machinery comprising computer hardware computer software or a combination of computer hardware and software. The storage controller may be configured to carry out various storage related tasks. Such tasks may include writing data received from a computing device to storage erasing data from storage retrieving data from storage to provide to a computing device monitoring and reporting of disk utilization and performance performing RAID Redundant Array of Independent Drives or RAID like data redundancy operations compressing data encrypting data and so on.

Each storage controller may be implemented in a variety of ways including as an FPGA Field Programmable Gate Array a PLC Programmable Logic Chip an ASIC Application Specific Integrated Circuit or computing device that includes discrete components such as a central processing unit computer memory and various adapters. Each storage controller may for example include a data communications adapter configured to support communications via the SAN and the LAN . For clarity only one of the storage controllers in the example of is depicted as coupled to the LAN for data communications. Readers should understand that both storage controllers are independently coupled to the LAN . Each storage controller may also for example include an I O controller or the like that couples the storage controller for data communications through a midplane to a number of storage devices and a number of write buffer devices.

Each write buffer device may be configured to receive from the storage controller data to be stored in the storage devices . Such data may originate from any one of the computing devices . In the example of writing data to the write buffer device may be carried out more quickly than writing data to the storage device. The storage controller may be configured to effectively utilize the write buffer devices as a quickly accessible redundant buffer for data destined to be written to storage. In this way if the storage device to which the data is to be written fails or if the write does not complete the write buffer device may maintain the data to be written during a retry of the write or during failover of the storage device to another location. That is the write buffer device may provide redundancy for the storage devices.

A storage device as the term is used in this specification refers to any device configured to record data persistently. The term persistently as used here refers to a device s ability to maintain recorded data after loss of a power source. Examples of storage devices may include mechanical spinning hard disk drives Solid state drives Flash drives and the like.

In addition to being coupled to the computing devices through the SAN the storage arrays may also be coupled to the computing devices through the LAN and to one or more cloud service providers through the Internet . One example cloud service in is a storage array services provider . The storage array service provider may be configured to provide various storage array services such as reporting of storage array performance characteristics configuration control of the storage arrays and the like. The storage array services provider may rely on modules executing on the storage array itself to gather or process such data.

In some instances the storage arrays may be disconnected from the storage array services provider . Various reasons may exist for such a disconnect. For example a loss of data communications connection between the storage array and the storage array services provider may occur. In high security data centers as another example the storage arrays may never be connected to the storage array services provider at all. In such situations users may still desire the services provided by the storage array services provider. To that end the system of may be configured according to embodiments of the present invention to locally provide cloud storage array services for a storage array of a data center when the storage array is not connected to a remote cloud based storage array services provider. Such local providing of the cloud storage array services may be carried out by a storage array services module of one of the storage arrays referred to here as the primary storage array . The storage array services module is a module of automated computing machinery comprising computer hardware computer software or a combination of computer hardware and software. The storage array services module may locally provide the cloud storage array services by initiating one or more cloud storage array services and locally providing the cloud storage array services. Providing the cloud storage array services locally may include generating by the cloud storage array services metadata describing one or more real time storage array characteristics and presenting the metadata to a user through a local area network . Metadata as the term is used in this specification refers to data that describes various characteristics of the storage array. Such data may take on various forms in dependence upon the types of cloud storage array services executing on the storage array. Some examples of such services may include a service that tracks and reports the rate and type of access of the storage devices of the storage array a service that tracks and reports throughput of the storage array a service that monitors and reports memory wear leveling of the storage devices a service that reports capacity utilization of the storage devices a service that reports deduplication statistics a service that reports RAID Redundant Array of Independent Drives statistics a service that reports logical volume statistics a service that monitors and reports power consumption of the storage array and other services as will occur to readers of skill in the art.

Prior to presentation the metadata may be processed and analyzed. Such analysis processing and analysis may also be included in the presentation of the metadata to the user through the LAN . That is presenting the metadata is not limited to presenting the metadata in its original form. The metadata may be formatted processed analyzed and otherwise altered for purposes of presentation.

As mentioned above one example in which cloud storage array services are provided locally in accordance with embodiments of the present invention includes when a loss of data communications occurs. To that end the primary storage array through the storage array services module may be configured to detect a data communications connection between the primary storage array and a remote cloud based storage array services provider . Here a heartbeat signal may be used to ensure that the data communications connection between the primary storage array and the cloud based storage array services provider is maintained. Such a heartbeat may be a periodic ping of the storage array services provider. As long as the ping is returned the storage array services module may infer that the data communications connection between the storage array services provider and the primary storage array has not been lost. In such an embodiment the cloud based storage array services provider may provide the cloud storage array services remotely rather than the storage array services module .

Further while the data communications connection between the primary storage array and the storage array services provider is active the storage array services module may periodically retrieve from the remote cloud based storage array services provider a current configuration of the cloud storage array services and the a current configuration of the plurality of storage arrays in the data center. The term current configuration of the cloud storage array services may include any data related to the execution of the services including for example a list of the types of services to be executed the executable computer program instructions of the services themselves updates to the executable computer program instructions of the services data used to seed the services data describing the format of presenting the results of the services and so on. The term current configuration of the plurality of storage arrays refers to any data describing each of the storage arrays of the data center including storage capabilities of each storage array data communications capabilities endpoints and present connectivity of each storage array one or more identifiers of the storage array or the array s components a listing of components of the storage array an identification of logical volumes maintained by the storage array and the like. By periodically updating these current configurations the storage array services module may be primed to locally provide the cloud storage array services upon a loss of data communications between the primary storage array and the storage array services provider .

The storage array services module may later detect loss of the data communications connection between the primary storage array and the remote cloud based storage array services provider. The storage array services module may detect such a loss of communications when a predefined number of pings of the heartbeat signal are not returned. Responsive to detecting the loss of communications between the primary storage array and the storage array services provider the storage array services provider may then initiate the cloud storage array services .

In embodiments in which multiple storage arrays are included in the data center each storage array may be independently coupled for data communications to the cloud based storage array services provider . In such embodiments each storage array is generally unaware of the other storage arrays at least for purposes of participating in storage array services offered by the cloud based storage array services provider . In such an embodiment the cloud based storage array services provider may expose a REST Representational State Transition API Application Programming Interface or the like to the storage arrays to carry out data communications between a storage array service and a storage array. REST APIs generally utilize HTTP commands and a domain as the basis for data communications to between two endpoints. To that end upon a loss of communications with the cloud based storage array services provider the primary storage array may initiate the one or more cloud storage array services by altering a local DNS Domain Name Service record such that the domain originally utilized by the cloud based storage array services provider redirects to an IP address of the primary storage array. In this way any communications that would normally be addressed to the cloud based storage array services provider from any storage array in the data center are now redirected to the primary storage array .

In such an embodiment in which multiple storage arrays are located within a single data center generating metadata describing one or more real time storage array characteristics may also include generating metadata describing one or more real time storage array characteristics of each of the plurality of the storage arrays and aggregating for presentation to the user the metadata of each of the plurality of storage arrays.

Although the example of depicts the primary storage array as the host of the cloud storage array services other storage arrays may host the services in various circumstances. In this way initiating the one or more cloud storage array services may also include selecting by the primary storage array through the storage array services module one of the plurality of storage arrays in the data center to host the one or more cloud storage array services in dependence upon workload characteristics of each of the plurality of storage arrays. The term workload characteristics here refers to any metric that may be utilized to infer availability of processing capabilities. Examples of such workload characteristics may include processing capabilities of each storage array CPU speed memory bus speed and the like a history of storage access operations over a predefined period of time status of a job queue directed to accessing a volume hosted on a storage array and so on as will occur to readers of skill in the art. That is a storage array with less workload than all other storage arrays may be utilized to host the cloud storage array services so that primary data storage operations are unaffected.

In embodiments in which workload characteristics are utilized to select a host for the cloud based storage array services the primary storage array may also be configured to detect a change in workload characteristics of each of the plurality of storage arrays. Such a change may be detected in a variety of ways including for example by detecting a failure of a storage array by periodically retrieving workload characteristics and so on. Upon detecting the change the primary storage array may then re select one of the storage arrays to host the one or more cloud storage array services in dependence upon the changed workload characteristics. In this way hosting of the services may be dynamically reassigned when workload changes amongst the storage arrays.

In embodiments in which a storage array other than the primary storage array is selected to host the cloud based storage array services the primary storage array may operate as a proxy for the selected storage array. In such an embodiment presenting the metadata to a user through a local area network may include presenting the metadata through the proxy of the primary storage array. The primary storage array may operate as a proxy in different ways. In one way the primary storage array receives only the final aggregated results for presentation to the user through the local area network . That is the selected storage array actually hosting the cloud based storage array services may perform the services collecting metadata from all storage arrays aggregate the metadata into a single result and pass that result on to the primary storage array for presentation to a user. In another example the selected storage array may execute the cloud based storage array services and each storage array may pass its metadata directly to the primary storage array. In such an embodiment the primary storage array may aggregate and process the metadata of each storage array prior to presenting the aggregated and processed metadata to a user through the LAN .

The arrangement of computing devices storage arrays cloud based service providers networks and other devices making up the exemplary system illustrated in are for explanation not for limitation. Systems useful according to various embodiments of the present invention may include different configurations of servers routers switches computing devices and network architectures not shown in as will occur to those of skill in the art.

Locally providing cloud storage array services in accordance with embodiments of the present invention is generally implemented with computers. In the system of for example all the computing devices storage arrays and storage array services provider may be implemented to some extent at least as computers. For further explanation therefore sets forth a block diagram several example computers useful for locally providing cloud storage array services according to embodiments of the present invention. The example computers in include a primary storage array a client side computer and a storage array services provider . For clarity only one computer the primary storage array in the example of is depicted with a number of various computing components which are described below in greater detail. Readers will understand that the client side user computer and storage array services provider may include similar components that operate in a similar manner.

The primary storage array of includes at least one computer processor or CPU as well as random access memory RAM which is connected through a high speed memory bus and bus adapter to processor and to other components of the primary storage array . Stored in RAM is a storage array services module a module of computer program instructions that when executed causes the primary storage array of to locally provide cloud storage array services when the storage array is not connected to a remote cloud based storage array services provider by initiating one or more cloud storage array services and locally providing the cloud storage array services including generating by the cloud storage array services metadata describing one or more real time storage array characteristics and presenting the metadata to a user through a local area network.

Here the user may receive or view the metadata through a client side array services module stored in RAM of a client side user computer . In the example of the client side user computer is depicted as being coupled through the SAN to the storage array for use in storing data in the storage array. Alternatively the client side user computer may be a device that is not connected to the storage array for purposes of storing data but rather may be connected only via a LAN for purposes of receiving results of the cloud storage array services. Consider for example a client side user computer that is implemented as a mobile device that is carried by a system administrator. Although the mobile device is not coupled to the storage array for purposes of data storage the system administrator may utilize the mobile device to request and receive results from various reporting services that indicate storage array performance characteristics errors alerts and the like.

In some embodiments prior to the storage array services module initiating cloud storage array services locally such cloud storage array services may be provided remotely via the storage array services provider . In such an embodiment the cloud storage array services may be stored in RAM of the storage array services provider and be accessible via an API exposed by the storage array services provider via data communications over the Internet or some other wide area network.

Turning back to the components of the primary storage array also stored in RAM is an operating system . Examples of operating systems useful in primary storage arrays configured for locally providing cloud storage array services according to embodiments of the present invention include UNIX Linux Microsoft Windows and others as will occur to those of skill in the art. The operating system the storage array services module the cloud storage array services and the metadata in the example of are shown in RAM but many components of such software typically are stored in non volatile memory also such as for example on a disk drive . Likewise the modules depicted in RAM of the client side user computer and the storage array services provider may be stored in non volatile memory.

The primary storage array of also includes disk drive adapter coupled through an expansion bus and bus adapter to the processor and other components of the primary storage array . Disk drive adapter connects non volatile data storage to the primary storage array in the form of disk drive . Disk drive adapters may be implemented in a variety of ways including as SATA Serial Advanced Technology Attachment adapters PATA Parallel ATA adapters Integrated Drive Electronics IDE adapters Small Computer System Interface SCSI adapters and others as will occur to those of skill in the art. Non volatile computer memory also may be implemented as an optical disk drive electrically erasable programmable read only memory so called EEPROM or Flash memory RAM drives and so on as will occur to those of skill in the art.

The example primary storage array of includes one or more input output I O adapters . I O adapters implement user oriented input output through for example software drivers and computer hardware for controlling output to display devices such as computer display screens as well as user input from user input devices such as keyboards and mice. The example primary storage array of also includes a video adapter which is an example of an I O adapter specially designed for graphic output to a display device such as a display screen or computer monitor. Video adapter is connected to the processor through a high speed video bus.

The exemplary primary storage array of includes a communications adapter for data communications with other computers through the Internet . Such data communications may be carried out through data communications networks such as IP data communications networks and in other ways as will occur to those of skill in the art. Communications adapters implement the hardware level of data communications through which one computer sends data communications to another computer directly or through a data communications network. Examples of such communications adapters useful include modems for wired dial up communications Ethernet IEEE 802.3 adapters for wired data communications and 802.11 adapters for wireless data communications.

The example of depicts a storage array implemented as one type of example computer. Readers of skill in the art will immediately recognize however that such a storage array useful for locally providing cloud storage array services in accordance with embodiments of the present invention may be implemented in a variety of different ways and include a variety of different components. To that end and for further explanation sets forth a block diagram of an example storage controller of a primary storage array configured for locally providing cloud storage array services in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The example storage controller includes a computer processor . The computer processor is coupled to RAM through a DDR4 Double Data Rate bus. Stored in RAM is a storage array services module that operates as described above to locally provide one or more cloud storage array services including the generation and presentation to a user of metadata describing real time storage array characteristics.

The processor is also coupled for data communications through PCIe Peripheral Component Interface express links to several Fibre Channel host bus adapters an Ethernet adapter and a PCIe switch . The Fibre Channel host bus adapters may couple the storage controller to a storage area network such the SAN depicted in the example of . The Ethernet adapter may couple the storage controller to a local area network such as the LAN depicted in the example of . The PCIe switch may provide data communications across other PCI links through the midplane to PCI endpoints such as storage devices or write buffer devices. Likewise the processor is also coupled through a SAS Serial Attached SCSI host bus adapter to a SAS expander . The SAS expander may provide SAS connections between the computer processor and other devices through the midplane.

Readers of skill in the art will recognize that these components protocols adapters and architectures are for illustration only not limitation. Such a storage controller may be implemented in a variety of different ways. Each such way is well within the scope of the present invention.

For further explanation sets forth a flow chart illustrating an exemplary method for locally providing cloud storage array services according to embodiments of the present invention. The method of includes initiating by a primary storage array one or more cloud storage array services . Initiating one or more cloud storage array services may include deploying and executing one or more modules of computer program instructions.

The method of also includes locally providing the cloud storage array services . In the method of locally providing the cloud storage array services is carried out by generating by the cloud storage array services metadata describing one or more real time storage array characteristics and presenting the metadata to a user through a local area network. Generating such metadata may be carried out in various ways depending upon the type of service performed. In embodiments in which a service reports throughput of a storage array the service may monitor a number of data storage write operations completed over a predefined period time. Such a number is metadata describing real time storage array characteristic.

Presenting metadata locally to a user may be carried out by sending the data through the local area network to a client side array services module for presentation in a GUI Graphical User Interface . A client side array services module is a module of automated computing machinery comprising computer hardware computer software or a combination of computer hardware and software that is configured to receive and present in a GUI metadata from cloud storage array services. One example of a client side array services module may be a web browser and the GUI may be a webpage hosted by the primary storage array . In another example the client side array services module may be implemented as an application for a mobile device. These are but a few of many possible implementations of a client side array services module that may be configured to receive and present metadata to a user.

For further explanation sets forth a flow chart illustrating another method of locally providing cloud storage array services in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The method of is similar to the method of including as it does initiating one or more cloud storage array services and locally providing the cloud storage array services including generating metadata and presenting the metadata to a user through a local area network .

The method of differs from the method of however in that the method of also includes detecting by the primary storage array prior to initiating the cloud storage array services a data communications connection between the primary storage array and a remote cloud based storage array services provider . Detecting a data communications connection between the primary storage array and the remote cloud based storage array services provider may be carried out in a variety of manners. In one example the primary storage array may periodically ping the cloud based storage array services provider . Each ping is returned by the cloud based storage array services provider as long as a data communications connection over the wide area network WAN is active.

While the data communications connection is active the method of includes providing by the remote cloud based storage array services provider the cloud storage array services. The cloud based storage array services provider may provide many different types of cloud storage array services in many different ways. In one example the cloud based storage array services provider may expose an API to the primary storage array and other storage arrays where the API enables the performance of the cloud storage array services.

Also while the data communications connection between the primary storage array and the remote cloud based storage array services provider is active the method of may optionally include periodically retrieving by the primary storage array from the remote cloud based storage array services provider a current configuration of the cloud storage array services and a current configuration of the plurality of storage arrays. The configuration of cloud storage array services may be updated over time by developers of the cloud storage array services and the configuration of the storage arrays in the data center may updated by system administrators of the storage arrays or data center.

The method of also includes detecting by the primary storage array loss of the data communications connection between the primary storage array and the remote cloud based storage array services provider . Continuing with the heartbeat example described above upon a predefined number of un returned pings the primary storage array may infer a loss of data communications connection between the primary storage array and the cloud based storage area service provider . In an embodiment in which the a data communication connection was previous active then is lost the primary storage array may be configured to initiate the one or more cloud storage array services by the primary storage array only in response to detecting the loss of the data communications connection between the primary storage array and the remote cloud based storage array services provider.

For further explanation sets forth a flow chart illustrating another method of locally providing cloud storage array services in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The method of is similar to the method of including as it does initiating one or more cloud storage array services and locally providing the cloud storage array services including generating metadata and presenting the metadata to a user through a local area network .

The method of differs from the method of however in that in the method of the data center includes a plurality of storage arrays including the primary storage array . Also in the method of generating metadata describing one or more real time storage array characteristics includes generating metadata describing one or more real time storage array characteristics of each of the plurality of the storage arrays and aggregating for presentation to the user the metadata of each of the plurality of storage arrays. In this way cloud storage array services may be performed for a plurality of storage arrays in a single data center and all results are aggregated for presentation of a user.

For further explanation sets forth a flow chart illustrating another method of locally providing cloud storage array services in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The method of is similar to the method of including as it does initiating one or more cloud storage array services and locally providing the cloud storage array services including generating metadata and presenting the metadata to a user through a local area network .

The method of differs from the method of however in that in the method of the data center includes a plurality of storage arrays including the primary storage array . The method of differs from the method of in that in the method of initiating by the primary storage array one or more cloud storage array services includes selecting by the primary storage array in dependence upon workload characteristics of each of the plurality of storage arrays one of the plurality of storage arrays to host the one or more cloud storage array services . Selecting a storage array to host the cloud storage array services in dependence upon workload characteristics may include retrieving from each of the storage arrays one or more metrics useful for inferring availability of processing capabilities and selecting the storage array with the greatest inferred availability of processing capabilities.

The method of also includes detecting by the primary storage array a change in workload characteristics of each of the plurality of storage arrays and re selecting one of the plurality of storage arrays to host the one or more cloud storage array services in dependence upon the changed workload characteristics. The primary storage array may be configured to periodically request workload characteristics from each of the plurality of storage arrays and determine if a change in the workload characteristics necessitates a change in selection of the storage array hosting the cloud storage array services .

The method of also includes operating by the primary storage array as a proxy for the selected storage array when the selected storage array is not the primary storage array . Operating as a proxy may take various forms. As mentioned above the primary storage array may operate as a proxy by receiving a final aggregated result of the performance of the cloud storage array services or may operate as a proxy by receiving from each storage array independently metadata streams generated as a result of the execution of the cloud storage array services by the selected storage array . In the latter example the primary storage array may process analyze and aggregated the various independent streams of metadata. To that end presenting the metadata to a user through a local area network in the method of is carried out by presenting the metadata through the proxy of the primary storage array .

Exemplary embodiments of the present invention are described largely in the context of a fully functional computer system. Readers of skill in the art will recognize however that the present invention also may be embodied in a computer program product disposed upon computer readable media for use with any suitable data processing system. Such computer readable storage media may be any transitory or non transitory media. Examples of such media include storage media for machine readable information including magnetic media optical media or other suitable media. Examples of such media also include magnetic disks in hard drives or diskettes compact disks for optical drives magnetic tape and others as will occur to those of skill in the art. Persons skilled in the art will immediately recognize that any computer system having suitable programming means will be capable of executing the steps of the method of the invention as embodied in a computer program product. Persons skilled in the art will recognize also that although some of the exemplary embodiments described in this specification are oriented to software installed and executing on computer hardware nevertheless alternative embodiments implemented as firmware as hardware or as an aggregation of hardware and software are well within the scope of embodiments of the present invention.

It will be understood from the foregoing description that modifications and changes may be made in various embodiments of the present invention without departing from its true spirit. The descriptions in this specification are for purposes of illustration only and are not to be construed in a limiting sense. The scope of the present invention is limited only by the language of the following claims.

