---

title: Presenting question and answer data in a social networking system
abstract: A social networking system includes a question and answer system that displays to a viewing user questions and answers provides by other users of the social networking system. The question and answer system may display answers to a particular question in a way that visually indicates both the global answer set and a subset of the global answer set, such as the viewing user's friends. The social networking system may also display to a viewing user news stories about another user asking or answering a question, where the format of the displayed new stories is based on an affinity that the viewing user has for the user who provided the question or answer mentioned in the news story. The displayed questions and/or answers may be associated with an object in the social networking system, where the user interface provides additional information about those objects.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09270716&OS=09270716&RS=09270716
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09270716
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150916
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 14 160 284 filed Jan. 21 2014 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 167 014 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 070 477 filed Mar. 24 2011 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 701 019 all of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

This invention relates generally to social networking and in particular to a user interface for displaying questions asked and answered by users of a social networking.

Traditional question and answer software systems use a search interface that links into a set of documents that discuss various topics for answering users questions. For example a question entered by a user is searched using natural language processing systems to retrieve documents that answer the question. Often the documents that are presented to the user do not specifically answer the question entered and instead they simply offer an encyclopedic explanation of the general topic of the question.

User generated content question and answer systems have emerged in recent years to address this problem. In these systems a user posts a question to a forum and one or more other users answer the question. Answers to the question are displayed under the question often in sequential format. Other systems allow users to post polls which allow other users to select a pre designated answer. Yet other systems allow users to vote on answers to post questions. In these systems however the display of answer data to posted questions is inflexible and lacks social context.

Embodiments of the invention provide a question and answer system within a social networking environment. A user interface for the question and answer system enables users of the social networking system to view questions and answers provides by other users of the social networking system in a manner that facilitates social interactions among the users without burdening the users with irrelevant information.

In one embodiment the question and answer system displays answers to a particular question in a way that visually indicates both the global answer set and a subset of the global answer set. The subset of answer data may comprise answer data associated with the social networking system users who are connected to the viewing user. In this way a user who is viewing the answers for a particular question may simultaneously view all answers to a question along with the answers provided by a user s friends. In one example the answers contain a shaded bar or other visual indication of their global frequency but they are sorted by the frequency of the answer among the viewing user s friends. The answers may also be displayed next to images or links to the viewing user s friends. Each user who views the answers to a question may thus see a different display of the answers and the display is personalized based on the viewing user s social network.

In another embodiment a social networking system may display to a viewing user a number of news stories associated with the interactions between users connected to the viewing user. The news stories may include questions posed by other users as well as answered provided by other users of the social networking system. The format of the displayed new stories may vary based on the type of interaction e.g. question or answer and based on the affinity that the viewing user has for the user who provided the question or answer mentioned in the news story. For example if a close friend of the viewing user answers a question the news story may mention that the friend answered the question and also include an interface that allows the viewing user to answer that question from within the news story. But if a more distant friend answers a question the news story may merely mention this fact without providing an interface for answering the question. In this way the news stories use the viewing user s affinity for a user who answered a question to determine how likely the viewing user will want to answer the same question thus avoiding cluttering the viewing user s newsfeed with irrelevant content.

In another embodiment the question and answer system allows users to pose a question or answer a question by linking a portion of the question or answer to an object in the social networking system or otherwise providing structured data. Then in the display of the question and its answers the user interface provides additional information about the objects. For example a question that asks people to state their favorite restaurant may be answered by users who tag the answers with pages or other objects associated with each restaurant in the answers. The user interface may display the answers along with additional information about the tagged objects such as maps to each restaurant and a listing of other friends who have checked in to that location. In this way the user interface provides personalized social context about the question and its answers to each viewing user.

The figures depict various embodiments of the present invention for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles of the invention described herein.

A social networking system offers its users the ability to communicate and interact with other users of the social networking system. Users join the social networking system and add connections to a number of other users to whom they desire to be connected. Connected users are said to be friends in the context of the social networking system. Social networking systems comprise a series of interconnected pages which may be displayed in a web browser or native application on a client device. Users of a social networking system can provide information describing themselves which is stored and displayed in pages called user profiles. For example a user can provide age gender geographical location education history employment history and similar information describing the user. The information provided by users may be used by the social networking system to direct information to the user. For example the social networking system may recommend social groups events and potential friends to a user.

Social networking system information that is tracked and maintained by a social networking system may be stored as a social graph which includes a plurality of nodes that are interconnected by a plurality of edges representing interactions connections communications or other measures of relatedness between nodes . A social graph node may represent a social networking system object that can act on and or be acted upon by another node. An edge between nodes in a social graph represents any kind of connection or interaction between the two nodes which may result from an action that was performed by one of the nodes on the other node. For example two friends or otherwise connected users in a social networking system may be represented by nodes in the social graph which may be connected by an edge representing the friendship within the social networking system. Likewise a user may use a device with location detection functionality such as a mobile phone with GPS functionality to check in to a real world location such as a dance club the user and the dance club may each be represented by nodes in the social graph which may be connected by an edge representing the user s presence at the dance club in the real world.

A social networking system object may be a social networking system user non person entity content item group social networking system page location application concept or user interest item such as a movie a band or a book. Content items may be anything that a social networking system user or other object may create upload edit or interact with such as messages queued messages e.g. email text and SMS short message service messages comment messages messages sent using any other suitable messaging technique an HTTP link HTML files images videos audio clips documents document edits calendar entries or events and other computer related files. Social graph data such as object data user data and interaction data is stored in social graph data storage module . In one embodiment question data storage module answer data storage module and social graph data storage module comprise the same storage module.

A question and answer service on a social networking system can use the tools and features of the social networking system to improve the performance and utility of the question and answer service. For example a question and answer service may use a social networking system s social graph when displaying answer data to a viewing user. Subsets of answer data may be displayed to a viewing user simultaneously based on the nodes connected to the viewing user s node in the social graph. For instance a viewing user may be able to view all answer data from all social networking system users and the subset of answer data from friends in a single interface. In this way social networking system users receive a more personalized and useful experience from a question and answer service on a social networking system.

Questions and answers may be represented by nodes in the social graph and may be connected to each other to questioning user to answering users to viewing users and to any other social networking system node. Questions objects connected to questions in the social graph and interactions represented by edges connecting questions in the social graph are referred to as question data. Answers objects connected to answers in the social graph and interactions represented by edges connecting answers in the social graph are referred to as answer data. Question data may be stored in question data storage module and answer data may be stored in answer data storage module . are example screenshots illustrating the display of questions and answer data in accordance with an embodiment of the invention and will be discussed below in greater detail.

A questioning user uses question interface in ask a question to users of social networking system . The question interface may be graphically rendered on the social networking system in various locations to encourage users to use the question and answer service. In one embodiment for example the embodiment of question interface comprises a dedicated social networking system page. Alternatively question interface may appear in a portion of another social networking system page such as in a margin of a user profile. A user may add a tab or a button in a social networking system GUI which may be clicked to display the question interface .

Question interface may comprise a field in which questioning user may type and submit a question. Various types of questions may be posed viewed and answered by users of the social networking system using the question interface . Polling questions may be asked by a questioning user to see various percentages of responding users such as the questions Should Don t Ask and Don t Tell legislation be repealed and Which is better San Francisco or Los Angeles Questions may also include video audio and image files as the main content of the question. For example a questioning user may submit a question that includes an image of a bird and the text What kind of bird is this Another example may include a questioning user who wants feedback on a musical performance and uploads a video or audio file and asks the polling question Should I perform this song for my senior recital Questions may be asked which prompt users to answer more than once. For example in the embodiment of the question asked by questioning user John Smith is What are your favorite restaurants in San Francisco .

Question interface may allow a questioning user to submit one or more potential answers to a submitted question. For example a question user may ask What is your favorite beach in Northern California and may include the potential answers Stinson Manresa and Pacifica. Question interface may allow questioning user to allow other users to submit their own answers may allow questioning user to restrict answers to those submitted by questioning user or may allow questioning user to allow a mix of questioning user submitted answers and user submitted answers.

Question interface may allow a questioning user to select which social networking system users can view and or answer questions. For example questioning user may select a subset of social networking system users who can view and answer a question such as the friends of questioning user members of a network or group or any other subset of users selected by questioning user . In one embodiment questions asked by questioning user are visible to all users of the social networking system . In one embodiment unless a questioning user restricts who can view and answer a question question interface makes the question available to all users of the social networking system by default.

Question interface may include the functionality to enable a questioning user to tag other users in a question. A questioning user may tag a user in order to target the question to particular social networking system users. For example a questioning user may ask What is the best restaurant in San Francisco and may tag friends that live in San Francisco or have a particular taste in restaurants. Tagging users in a question may result in the tagged users being notified of the question and may result in the names of the tagged users being displayed in conjunction with the question. Tagging a user in a question may also result in the questioning user being notified when the tagged user answers the question. Tagging users in a question may cause the users to follow a question which is discussed in greater detail below. Tagging users in a question may cause a pop up window to display a list of the tagged users within question interface when a viewing user moves a user input such as a computer mouse pointer or a finger on a touch sensitive display over the question or the names of the tagged users displayed below the question. Selecting a tagged user in the list of tagged users may cause the viewing user to be directed to the profile page of the selected tagged user. The displayed list of tagged users may comprise pictures such as profile pictures of the tagged users next to the associated names of the tagged users.

Question interface may allow users other than questioning user to tag users in a question. For example a viewing user may not know the answer to a question but may know a friend who has expertise in the field of the question the viewing user may tag the friend to notify the friend of the question and encourage the friend to answer the question. Tagged users may be notified of being tagged in a question by any suitable communication medium such as email wall posts pop up notifications text messages and instant messages. Tagging a user in a question may cause the user s node and the question s node to be connected in the social graph. Question interface may provide an interface for tagging users in a question. In the embodiment of question interface provides ask friends button . In the embodiment of when button is clicked pop up window appears. Pop up window contains text field which a user may use to type the name of another user. Alternatively pop up window may contain a drop down menu which allows a user to select particular social networking system users to tag. Question interface may provide predictive text functionality for tagging users in a question. In the embodiment of when the text michae is typed names of users containing the text michae or close variants are displayed.

Question interface may suggest users to tag in a question to questioning user . In one embodiment question interface suggests groups or networks of friends. Alternatively question interface may suggest users who are friends with questioning user who are currently online or logged into the social networking system who have answered questions posted by questioning user or other users or who have previously checked into locations associated with the question. In one embodiment question interface uses the social graph to determine users who are connected to the questioning user or who are connected to objects associated with or tagged in a question discussed below .

Question interface may also include the functionality to enable a questioning user to tag objects in the social networking system in a question. For example questioning user may ask Has anyone ever been to AT T Park and may tag a social networking system object representing AT T Park such as an AT T Park location or a San Francisco Giants fan page. In the embodiment of questioning user John Smith may tag the question term San Francisco. The names of tagged objects in a question may be displayed below the question. Questioning user may allow or disallow users other than questioning user to tag objects in a question and may allow questioning user to remove objects tagged by other users in a question. Tagging an object in a question may cause the object s node and the question s node to be connected in the social graph. Tagged objects in a question may describe people locations things or concepts related to the question and may allow the question to be indexed by tagged object. Question interface may provide a text box with predictive text functionality that displays objects related to a user s typed text. Question interface may also automatically tag objects in a question. In one embodiment question interface parses question text into keywords and tags social networking system objects related to the parsed keywords to the question. For example for the question What is the best sports bar in Atlanta question interface may parse the keywords sports bar and Atlanta and tag the question to objects representing these keywords.

Tagging objects in a question may cause a pop up window to display a list of the tagged objects or information related to tagged objects when a viewing user moves a user input over the question or the names of the tagged objects displayed below the question. Selecting an object in the list of tagged objects may cause the viewing user to be directed to a social networking system page or external web page associated with the object. Information related to tagged objects may comprise information related to the object itself information related to users who have interacted with the object or information related to interactions between a user and the object. In one embodiment information related to tagged objects comprises a map displaying the locating of the object to be displayed. In one embodiment information related to with a business entity object comprises reviews of the business entity. Any information associated with a tagged object may be displayed when the tagged object is either selected from a list of tagged objects displayed in a pop up window or when a user input moves over the tagged question in question interface . Tagged objects may be determined by identifying all object nodes connected to the node representing the tagged question in the social graph.

Question interface may also include the functionality to allow users to follow questions. In the embodiment of question interface may provide a follow button that when clicked allows a viewing user to follow question . Following a question may allow new question activity such as new answers new votes new communications etc. to be automatically pushed to a following user s newsfeed on the social networking system . In one embodiment only new question activity from friends is pushed to a following user s newsfeed. In one embodiment any user may follow a question. Alternatively following a question may be automatically limited to friends of questioning user or questioning user may select a subset of social networking system users who may follow a question. In one embodiment answering users automatically follow questions they answer. Question interface may allow users to follow a question by providing a button or link that when selected allows the users to follow the question. Users following a question may be displayed in question interface . For example in the embodiment of pictures of users user b user e user f and user n are displayed for following the question . Additionally question interface may allow an entity or moderator of a social networking system group fan page or network to answer a question on behalf of the entity. For example a question such as When will the concert dates be announced for Journey can be followed by interested users and answered by the moderator of an official Journey fan page.

Question interface may allow a questioning user to set an expiration date for questions after which question interface may remove the question from social networking system or may prevent the question from being voted on or viewed by users. In one embodiment question interface may automatically assign a question an expiration date. Alternatively question interface may allow questions to never expire.

Answering users of the social networking system may use answer interface to answer a question asked by a questioning user of social networking system . Using the answer interface answering users may respond to the question using text HTML video audio and any other communication delivery mechanisms. Answering users may comprise users that are friends of a viewing user and users that are not friends of a viewing user . In addition users may view the question and or answers without answering the question. Although viewing users are shown in to be coupled to newsfeed module viewing users may view questions and or answers through question interface answer interface or any other suitable social networking system interface. Further the term viewing users as used herein describes users who request to view or are currently viewing a particular question and who may or may not answer the particular question or who may have already answered the question. Thus answering users and viewing users are not mutually exclusive.

The answer interface may be graphically rendered on the social networking system in various locations. The answer interface may be coupled to or displayed in conjunction with the question interface . For example in the event of a dedicated social networking system question and answer service page recently submitted questions may be displayed each displayed question having the functionality to accept and display answers from social networking system users. Likewise for a question that appears in a user s news feed answer interface may be displayed immediately below the question or may not be displayed until a display answers button or link is selected.

Answer interface may comprise a field which allows viewing users to submit an answer to an associated question. For example in the embodiment of field allows a viewing user to type an answer to question . Submitted answers may be saved displayed to and selected by future viewing users . Answer interface may also comprise a series of potential answers submitted by questioning user or other answering users which a viewing user can vote on using for example buttons associated with each answer. In the embodiment of answers are displayed each containing a button which when selected allows a viewing user to vote on one or more of answers . For example if a viewing user wanted to vote for the answer Boogaloos the viewing user would select button .

Answer interface may display the answers and votes of other answering users . Continuing the example above answer interface may display the question What is your favorite beach in Northern California and may display the questioning user submitted answers Stinson Manresa and Pacifica as well as the answering user submitted answers Moss Beach and Miramar. Answers may be displayed in text fields graphical bubbles text boxes or any suitable format.

Similar to question interface answer interface may allow users to tag objects in answers. For example questioning user answering users or viewing users may tag a social networking system object associated with an answer to the answer. Tagging objects in an answer may cause a pop up window to display a list of objects tagged to the answer or information related to the tagged object when a viewing user moves a user input over the answer. Information related to tagged objects may comprise information related to the object itself information related to users who have interacted with the object or information related to interactions between a user and the object. Continuing the above example answer interface may display a map to Stinson beach or a link to the Stinson beach website if viewing user movies a user input over the answer Stinson and the map or link are tagged in the answer Stinson. 

In the embodiment of if the object Beretta is tagged to answer Beretta moving mouse pointer over the answer Beretta may cause pop up window to be displayed. Contact and categorical information about the object Beretta and a map of the object Beretta s location are displayed. In addition user generated reviews are displayed. In the embodiment of a review from user n is displayed and the last time user n used a location detection device to check in to the object Beretta is displayed.

In addition answer interface may automatically tag objects in answers. For example answer interface may parse the text of the question and the text of one or more answers to determine an object related to an answer. In this example the question What is your favorite restaurant and the answer The Refuge and may be parsed and an object related to The Refuge Restaurant may be tagged to the answer. Continuing with this example if an answering user selects the answer The Refuge and has previously checked in to The Refuge Restaurant the location The Refuge Restaurant may be tagged in the answer The Refuge . Continuing further with this example social graph edge data may also be displayed when a user input is moved over an answer. Thus moving a user input over the answer The Refuge may cause the name of the answering user to be displayed in a pop up window along with an indication that the answering user checked in to The Refuge Restaurant and the date answering user checked in to The Refuge Restaurant. Any information associated with a tagged object may be displayed when the tagged object is either selected from a list of tagged objects or when a user input moves over the tagged answer in question interface . Tagged objects may be determined by identifying all nodes connected to the node representing the tagged answer in the social graph. For example if a user likes or otherwise endorses an answer the user s node and the answer s node will be connected and the user may be automatically tagged in the answer.

Answer interface may display answer data such as the number or percentage of votes each answer has received. In one embodiment displaying answer data comprises textually displaying a number or percentage of votes in conjunction with over or next to each displayed answer. In one embodiment displaying answer data comprises graphically representing the number or percentage of votes. For example answer text may be displayed in white boxes and the boxes may be filled with blue shading according to the percentage of votes each answer receives. In this example if an answer receives 20 of the total answer votes the leftmost 20 of the box containing the answer will be shaded. This is illustrated in the embodiment of where each answer in answers is displayed in a text box and the proportion of each text box is shaded according to the proportion of votes each answer received. For example the answer Range received 10 of the vote among all users who answered question and the text box containing Range is 10 shaded . In one embodiment instead of displaying all answer data only a particular subset of answer data is displayed such as the answer data from friends of a viewing user .

More than one subset of answer data may be displayed simultaneously. For example the votes of friends of a viewing user may be textually displayed next to each answer while the total number of votes votes of friends of viewing user and non friends of viewing user are graphically displayed over each answer. Any subsets of answer data may be displayed simultaneously and any method of displaying the subsets of answer data may be used. Social networking system answer interface questioning user or viewing user may determine which subsets of answer data to display simultaneously to viewing user and how to display the one or more subsets of answer data.

Answer interface may organize displayed answers in a variety of ways. Answers may be displayed in the order they are received or in an order designated by questioning user . Answers may also be ordered based on the number of votes they receive. In one embodiment answers are ordered based on the total number of votes they receive across all social networking system users. In an alternative embodiment answers are ordered based on the number of votes from a subset of social networking system users. This subset may comprise friends of a viewing user a pre designated set of friends of a viewing user such as members of a social networking system group or network or a set of friends selected by a viewing for the purpose of filtering answers. Further answer interface may display only answers voted on or received from friends of viewing user . In addition answers may be organized based on demographic information such as age gender work place location hometown school or any other demographic information of answering users . Even further answers may be organized based on votes of answering users located nearby viewing user or based on answering users who have previously checked in to the location of viewing user . Answer interface may also comprise functionality to toggle between various methods of organizing or displaying answers such as a button which when selected switches between ordering answers based on total votes of answering users and votes of friends of viewing user or which switches between one demographic of answering users such as over 25 years of age and another demographic of answering users such as under 25 years of age .

Answer interface may limit the number of answers displayed to a viewing user . In one embodiment answer interface may limit the number of displayed answers to a predetermined number. Alternatively answer interface may limit the number of displayed answers based on other factors such as the client device a viewing user is using to view the answers or the social networking system context of the displayed answers. For example if a viewing user is using a large monitor answer interface may display as many answers as can be displayed within the social networking system GUI displayed on the monitor. Alternatively if a viewing user is using a mobile phone to view answers answer interface may display very few answers to accommodate the smaller monitor size. Further more answers may be displayed if answer interface is displayed within a dedicated social networking system page than if answer interface is displayed for instance within the margins of another social networking system page within a pop up window within a news feed or within any other social networking system context of limited space. In the embodiment of five answers to question are displayed within a dedicated social networking system page.

In one embodiment if answer interface limits the number of answers displayed to a viewing user answer interface may display a button or link indicating that additional answers are not being displayed hidden answers . Such a button or link may include text indicating the number of hidden answers. For example if a question has 26 answers but answer interface limits the number of displayed answers to 10 the button may include the text 16 more or display 16 more . In the embodiment of clicking on the 21 more button displays additional answers. Clicking on such a button may display all answers or may simply display hidden answers. In one embodiment clicking on such a button displays a dedicated page displaying all answers. In an alternative embodiment clicking on such a button causes answers to be displayed in a pop up window.

Answer interface may use a variety of factors to determine which answers to display to a viewing user in the event that only a limited number of answers may be displayed. In one embodiment answer interface may display answers that have received the most total votes from answering users or that have received the most votes from friends of the viewing user . For example in the embodiment of answers are ordered according to the number of friends of viewing user that have voted for each answer. Alternatively answer interface may first display any answers input by questioning user and then may use any suitable factor to display the remainder of answers to be displayed. Answer interface may allow a questioning user or a viewing user to view answer activity since the last time questioning user or viewing user viewed the question and answers. For example if a viewing user views a question initially and then views the question a week later only answers answer votes and communications received by answer interface during the past week may be displayed to viewing user .

Answer interface may display a picture of answering users next to each answer. In one embodiment this picture comprises a profile picture of an answering user . In an alternative embodiment this picture comprises a picture determined by the social networking system to best represent an answering user . For example the social networking system may determine that an answering user s face is not present in the answering user s profile picture and may instead select a picture of the answering user s face using face detection functionality on pictures uploaded by the answering user . In one embodiment an answering user the questioning user or a viewing user selects the picture displayed for an answering user .

Answer interface may display a picture for each of multiple answering users next to a displayed answer. In one embodiment answer interface displays up to a predetermined number of pictures next to a displayed answer. Continuing with the above example if the predetermined number of pictures to display next to an answer is five and if seven answering users selected the answer Moss Beach the pictures of five of the seven answering users may be displayed next to the answer Moss Beach . In the embodiment of up to five pictures of answering users are displayed in a row next to each answer. In one embodiment the number of pictures displayed by each answer is dependent on the client device a viewing user is using to view the answers or the social networking system context of the displayed answers. For example if a viewing user is using a large monitor to view answers answer interface may display more pictures than if a viewing user is using a mobile phone to view answers. In one embodiment more pictures may be displayed next to each answer if answer interface is displayed within a dedicated social networking system page than if answer interface is display in a more space limited context of a social networking system such as a pop up window or a news feed.

In one embodiment a single row of pictures of answering users is displayed next to each answer. In the event that answer interface limits the number of pictures of answering users that may be displayed next to each answer answer interface may indicate that more answering users have selected a particular answer than the answering users represented by displayed pictures next to the particular answer. For example answer interface may display an ellipsis within a button next to answers selected by more answering users than the answer interface limit or may display the button at the end of a limited single row of pictures next to each answer representing answering users that have selected each answer. Alternatively answer interface may display a button or link at the end of the picture row containing text indicating that additional answering users have selected a particular answer. Continuing the above example if ten answering users have selected the answer Moss Beach and answer interface limits the number of pictures displayed in a row next to each answer to five answer interface may include a button or link containing the text Five more at the end of the row of pictures. Selecting a button or link indicating that more answering users have selected a particular answer than are shown may result in the display of pictures of the remaining users. For example clicking the Five more button discussed above may cause a pop up window to appear displaying pictures of the five users not initially shown or displaying the pictures of all answering users. In the embodiment of button may be clicked to display additional users that have voted for the answer Rosamunde Sausage Grill. 

In one embodiment answer interface displays pictures next to or in conjunction with answers for all answering users . Alternatively answer interface may display only the pictures of friends of viewing user . In yet another embodiment answer interface may give priority to pictures of friends of viewing user displaying them first in a row next to each answer and then may display pictures of non friends of viewing user to fill out the remainder of the row. The order of displayed pictures may be based on affinity between answering users and viewing user may be based on recency of vote or may be based on any other suitable criteria. Answer interface may include functionality implemented for instance with a button which allows a viewing user to toggle between sets of displayed pictures next to each answer.

In one embodiment answer interface simultaneously displays at least one subset of answer data graphically or textually and at least one subset of answer data pictorially. For example answer boxes may be shaded according to the percentage of votes each answer receives from answering users while pictures representing friends of viewing user are displayed next to each answer based on the friends of viewing user that voted for each answer. In this example the answers may be ordered based on the percentage of votes each answer receives from answering users or based on the votes each answer receives from friends of viewing user . As the subset of friends of viewing user varies for each distinct viewing user answer interface may display answer data differently for each distinct viewing user . In the embodiment of answer text boxes are shaded according to the overall proportion of votes received by each of answers across all users who voted in question while pictures of users who are friends of the viewing user are displayed next to each answer according to which answer each user selected.

Answer interface may also include communication functionality allowing users to communicate about a question or answers. The communication interface may comprise a field in which a user may enter a text comment. In the embodiment of viewing users may use field to enter text comments. Continuing with the above example a user may vote for Pacifica Beach but may include the comment but only when it isn t foggy out . In one embodiment comments are displayed below the question and answers in answer interface . Alternatively comments may be displayed when an answered is selected or highlighted or when a user input is moved over the answer. Answer interface may display an icon or button when users have commented or otherwise communicated within answer interface viewing users may select the icon or button to view the communications. Questioning user may allow all social networking system users to communicate about a question or answers via answer interface or may restrict communication to friends of the questioning user to answering users or to any subset of social networking system users. Answering interface may display a pop up window requesting a comment from an answering user who merely votes on an answer instead of submitting a new answer or posting a comment within answering interface .

Answer interface may display communications for all social networking system users or may only display a subset of communications such as the communications of friends of a viewing user . Further answer interface may allow a viewing user to toggle between the sets of communications using for instance an all communications button and a friends communications only button. In the embodiment of viewing users may use button to toggle between all communications and communications from friends. Answer interface may include functionality allowing users to vote on communications made within answer interface . For example each comment displayed under a question may include a like button that a viewing user may select to indicate approval or endorsement of the comment. Answer interface may allow a viewing user to view communications by non friends of viewing user approved of or endorsed by a friend of the viewing user .

Answer interface may order the display of communications in a variety of ways. For example communications may be sorted chronologically or may be sorted by the number of votes each communication receives. Further the method of ordering the display of communications may vary depending on the type of communications displayed. For example communications made by friends of the viewing user may be sorted chronologically but communications made by all answering users may be sorted by the number of votes each communication receives.

A social networking system may display news stories to a user in a dedicated page called a newsfeed which is dynamically customized for each social networking system user. A news story may comprise any interaction between two social networking system objects. In one embodiment news stories are determined by identifying a first set of nodes connected to a viewing user s node identifying a second set of nodes connected to the first set of nodes and identifying an interaction represented by an edge connecting a first node from the first set of nodes and a second node connecting the second set of nodes. For example the first node may be the social networking system user Matt the second node may be the social networking system user Teri and the identified interaction may be the beginning of a romantic relationship. In this example a displayed news story may read Matt and Teri began dating. 

One example of dynamic customization of newsfeed stories is prioritizing news stories by affinity between a viewing user and the viewing user s connections and interests. A news story from a close connection may be displayed higher than another story from a user that has a lower affinity score. News stories involving a question and answer service on a social networking system may mimic this functionality. For example if a friend of a viewing user interacts with a question in a social networking system question and answer service the method of display of the interaction may depend on the affinity score between the viewing user and the interacting user. A social networking system may also prioritize the display of news stories based on the type of news story. Likewise the method of display of news stories involving a question interaction may be prioritized based on the type of question interaction. In this way the display of news stories involving a question and answer service may be tailored toward the anticipated interests of individual users.

A viewing user may request news stories related to the viewing user in a newsfeed using newsfeed module . In one embodiment requesting news stories comprises requesting access to a newsfeed for instance loading a newsfeed page. A news story may comprise an interaction between a friend of viewing user and a question referred to as a question story . Examples of interacting with a question include creating a question answering a question voting on a question following a question tagging a question recommending a question commenting on a question or any other suitable form of interaction within the context of the social networking system . As discussed above newsfeed module may determine question stories by identifying users connected to the viewing user using a social graph and then identifying edges in the social representing questions connected to the identified users.

Newsfeed module may determine a form to display a question story. In one embodiment newsfeed module selects between two forms to display a question story a long form and a short form. In one embodiment the long form comprises the identity of a user the question interacted with by the user the type of interaction and a predetermined number of answers to the question for instance three answers . For example in the embodiment of question story and question story are displayed in long form. Newsfeed module may use answer module to determine which answers to display in the large form of the question. As discussed above answer module may use a variety of methods to determine which answers to display to a viewing user . In one embodiment the short form comprises the identity of a user the question interacted with by the user and the type of interaction. For example in the embodiment of question story is displayed in short form. In other embodiments newsfeed module may select between more than two forms and may display a varying number of answers in a question story form.

Newsfeed module may format question story forms to be displayed within the dimensions of an established social networking system newsfeed GUI. Newsfeed module may include a button indicating that a question has more answers than are displayed that when selected displays the additional answers within the newsfeed in a pop up window or in a separate social networking system page. For example if a question associated with a question story has ten answers newsfeed module display three answers and may include a button in the question story with the text 7 more. In the embodiment of question story has five answers displays three answers and includes a button with the text 2 more . Likewise question story has three answers displays all three and does not include a button to display addition answers.

Newsfeed module may also allow a viewing user to interact with question stories in a newsfeed. For example newsfeed module may allow a viewing user to comment on a question story to vote in a question story by selecting a displayed answer to submit an answer to a question in the question story using an answer field to follow a question story to expand a question story to switch question story display forms or any other suitable form of interaction. In the embodiment of question story and question story include buttons which allow a viewing user to select an answer.

In one embodiment newsfeed module determines which question story form to display to a viewing user based on the type of interaction between a user and a question. For example if a questioning user creates a question newsfeed module may display a long form question story. Likewise if an answering user submits an answer to a question follows a question tags an object or a user in a question recommends a question comments on a question or is tagged in a question newsfeed module may display a long form question story. Alternatively if an answering user votes on an answer in a question without submitting an answer or commenting on the question or merely views a question newsfeed module may display a short form question story.

In one embodiment newsfeed module determines which question story form to display to a viewing user based on a measure of affinity between a user who interacted with a question and a viewing user . In one embodiment affinity between two users depends on the number and strength of connections between the two users the number and type of objects both users are connected to and the interactions between the two users. For example the measure of affinity between two users who are brothers and communicate frequently may be greater than the measure of affinity between two users who have established a connection within the social networking system but who have very few common connected objects and who have not communicated within the social networking system . The measure of affinity may be quantified and newsfeed module may determine a threshold measure of affinity which must be met in order to select a particular question story form. For example newsfeed module may select a long story form in response to a measure of affinity between a viewing user and another user which exceeds an affinity threshold and may select a short story form in response to a low measure of affinity which does not exceed the affinity threshold.

In one embodiment newsfeed module may combine similar question stories for display in a newsfeed to viewing user . For example newsfeed module may identify multiple friends of viewing user who have answered a particular question. In this example newsfeed module may display a single question story comprising the identities of all four answering users the question answered the type of interaction and a pre determined number of answers. Alternatively newsfeed module may display the identity of an answering user which the highest affinity with viewing user and may indicate the number of other answering users .

The client devices comprise one or more computing devices that can receive user input and can transmit and receive data via the network . In one embodiment the client device is a conventional computer system executing for example a Microsoft Windows compatible operating system OS Apple OS X and or a Linux distribution. In another embodiment the client device can be a device having computer functionality such as a personal digital assistant PDA mobile telephone smart phone etc. The client device is configured to communicate via network . The client device can execute an application for example a browser application that allows a user of the client device to interact with the social networking system . In another embodiment the client device interacts with the social networking system through an application programming interface API that runs on the native operating system of the client device such as iOS 4 and DROID.

In one embodiment the network uses standard communications technologies and or protocols. Thus the network can include links using technologies such as Ethernet 802.11 worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX G digital subscriber line DSL etc. Similarly the networking protocols used on the network can include multiprotocol label switching MPLS the transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP the User Datagram Protocol UDP the hypertext transport protocol HTTP the simple mail transfer protocol SMTP and the file transfer protocol FTP . The data exchanged over the network can be represented using technologies and or formats including the hypertext markup language HTML and the extensible markup language XML . In addition all or some of links can be encrypted using conventional encryption technologies such as secure sockets layer SSL transport layer security TLS and Internet Protocol security IPsec .

The web server links the social networking system via the network to one or more client devices the web server serves web pages as well as other web related content such as Java Flash XML and so forth. The web server may provide the functionality of receiving and routing messages between the social networking system and the client devices for example instant messages queued messages e.g. email text and SMS short message service messages or messages sent using any other suitable messaging technique. The user can send a request to the web server to upload information for example images or videos that are embedded in a question to question data storage module . Additionally the web server may provide API functionality to send data directly to native client device operating systems such as iOS DROID webOS and RIM.

The web server may also serve web pages including question interfaces and answer interfaces via the network to client devices . Alternatively the web server may also render question interfaces and answer interfaces in native applications on client devices . In one embodiment a web server may render question interfaces on a native platform s operating system such as iOS or ANDROID to appear as embedded advertisements in native applications.

As discussed above question data storage module and answer data storage module store data related to question and answers respectively. This includes but is not limited to the contents of questions and answers the identities of questioning users and answering users the identity of objects tagged in questions and answers and any other information related to questions or answers. Social graph data storage module may store any information related in any way to social networking system objects and interactions. Although not shown in social networking system may additionally comprise storage modules to store additional information such as user profile information user settings global social networking system settings or any other information produced received by or stored within social networking system .

Question interface module may comprise means within social networking system to implement question interface as discussed above. Likewise answer interface module may comprise means within social networking system to implement answer interface as discussed above. In addition newsfeed module may comprise means within social networking system to implement newsfeed module as discussed above.

Suggestion module may suggest users and objects to tag in questions and answers to a questioning user an answering user or a viewing user via question interface module or answer interface module . In one embodiment suggestion module retrieves data from question data storage module or answer data storage module parses the retrieved data and identifies users or objects within social graph data storage module to suggest to a tagging user based on the parsed retrieved data.

Predictive text module may suggest text associated with partial or full typed questions and answers. In one embodiment predictive text module identifies text being entered via question interface module or answer interface module identifies objects stored in social graph data storage module related to the identified text and displays the identified objects to a user interface with question interface module or answer interface module . For example if a user begins typing a name predictive text module may identity all friends of the user using data stored in social graph data storage module may identify a subset of friends of the user with names containing the typed text and may display the subset of friends to the user via question interface module or answer interface module .

Object tagging module allows a questioning user an answering user or a viewing user to tag users or objects in a question or an answer. In one embodiment a user tags objects in a question through question interface module and tags objects in an answer through answer interface module . In one embodiment object tagging module tags an object in a question or an answer by identifying an object in social graph data storage module and associating the identified object with a question stored in question data storage module or with an answer stored in answer data storage module .

The foregoing description of the embodiments of the invention has been presented for the purpose of illustration it is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Persons skilled in the relevant art can appreciate that many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure.

Some portions of this description describe the embodiments of the invention in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally computationally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits microcode or the like. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules without loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be embodied in software firmware hardware or any combinations thereof.

Any of the steps operations or processes described herein may be performed or implemented with one or more hardware or software modules alone or in combination with other devices. In one embodiment a software module is implemented with a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium containing computer program code which can be executed by a computer processor for performing any or all of the steps operations or processes described.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes and or it may comprise a general purpose computing device selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions which may be coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore any computing systems referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to a product that is produced by a computing process described herein. Such a product may comprise information resulting from a computing process where the information is stored on a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium and may include any embodiment of a computer program product or other data combination described herein.

Finally the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments of the invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the following claims.

