---

title: Presentation capture with automatically configurable output
abstract: A device and method for simultaneously capturing a combination of content video, content audio, presenter video and presenter audio, as well as distributing a combination of content video, content audio, presenter video and presenter audio to a digital sink via a high-definition multimedia interface (HDMI) connection. Video sources are automatically routed to the digital sink depending on the source configuration.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09659504&OS=09659504&RS=09659504
owner: CRESTRON ELECTRONICS INC.
number: 09659504
owner_city: Rockleigh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150831
---
The present invention relates to presentation capture and more specifically to devices for capturing media information from a presentation.

There is currently a drive toward expanding the traditional classroom into online education. Students of the digital age having grown up with on demand media of all kinds have an expectation that classroom lectures and notes be similarly available on demand. Additionally more and more students are enrolling in distance education programs or internet based courses which require remotely available lectures and class materials. Lecture capture also known as presentation capture is a major focus of this expansion.

Lecture capture involves the recordation and publishing of classroom lectures and related media. While current solutions are available there are continuing efforts to improve their form and functionality. For example an accurate re creation of the in class environment is tantamount for students to get any use out of a captured lecture. Poor audio and video quality may be incomprehensible to a remote viewer. Even marginally inferior reproduction can dissuade a student from viewing a recorded lecture. Given this capturing high quality content is extremely important and modern media and transmission formats need to be supported.

In addition more flexibility is desired in presentation capture systems. Lecture halls and classrooms are not all created equal and do not all share the same uniform resources. For example some large lecture halls are equipped with modern equipment such as digital video players and laptops while others may contain more traditional equipment such as microphones and VCRs. Additionally lecturers and presenters have individual preferences as to what resources they employ during a lecture. Some professors may believe in the educational power of the Powerpoint presentation whereas law professors rely strictly on the Socratic method and in class dialogues. A presentation capture system is desired that is flexible enough for many different classroom environments and professor preferences.

However while more flexibility in media capabilities is desired in presentation capture users also require simple operation. Certain prior art solutions that employ increased functionality are often high end systems that require a dedicated staff to deploy and maintain these systems. However it is often the untrained professors that ultimately are the end users when recording individual lectures. As such professors desire an automated lecture capture system that is simple enough for untrained personnel to use.

Given these concerns there is now a need for an improved lecture capture device. Such a device needs to be flexible regarding the inputs and outputs that it is capable of supporting. Additionally the operation of such a device should be simple and require little to no training.

It is to be understood that both the general and detailed descriptions that follow are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the invention.

Principles of the invention provide devices and methods for capturing and distributing a multimedia presentation. For example according to a first aspect the present invention provides a presentation capture device for capturing a content audio stream a content video stream a presenter audio stream and a presenter video stream. The presentation capture device comprises an analog video input channel for receiving an analog video signal comprising the content video stream a digital content input channel for receiving a digital video data stream comprising the content video stream or the content video stream and the content audio stream an analog audio input channel for receiving an analog audio signal comprising the content audio stream a microphone input channel for receiving an analog audio signal comprising the presenter audio stream a capture output channel for transmitting a digital data stream comprising a combination of the content video stream the content audio stream and the presenter audio stream a digital content output channel for transmitting a digital data stream comprising a combination of the content video stream the content audio stream and the presenter audio stream to a local sink. The presentation capture device is configured for simultaneously recording the content video stream the content audio stream and the presenter audio stream and outputting the captured the content video stream the content audio stream and the presenter audio stream as a digital data stream in a compressed AV format and detecting the source of the content audio stream and the content video stream and automatically routing a predetermined combination of input channels to the digital content output channel.

According to a second aspect the present invention provides a presentation capture device for capturing the content audio stream the content video stream the presenter audio stream and the presenter video stream. The presentation capture device comprises multiple input channels. An analog video input channel is configured for receiving an analog video signal comprising the content video stream and transmitting the analog video signal to a first video switch. A digital content input channel is configured for receiving a digital video data stream comprising the content video stream and a digital data stream comprising the content video stream and the content audio stream and transmitting the digital data stream to the first video switch. An analog audio input channel is configured for receiving an analog audio signal comprising the content audio stream and transmitting the analog audio signal to an audio switch. A microphone input channel is configured for receiving an analog audio signal comprising the presenter audio stream processing the analog audio signal and transmitting the analog audio signal to an audio mixer. The presentation capture device comprises multiple output channels. A capture output channel is configured for transmitting a digital data stream comprising a combination of the content video stream the content audio stream and the presenter audio stream and further comprises a codec for receiving the combination of the content video stream the content audio stream and the presenter audio stream and combining the combination in a digital data stream in a compressed AV format. A digital content output channel is configured for transmitting a digital data stream comprising a combination of the content video stream the content audio stream and the presenter audio stream to a local sink. The presentation capture device further comprises a first video switch configured for receiving the content video stream determining the source of the content video stream extracting the content audio stream from a digital data stream and transmitting to an audio switch and automatically routing a predetermined input channel depending on the source of the content video stream. The analog video input channel and analog video output channel are automatically routed to the digital content output channel and the capture output channel when the presentation capture device detects that the digital content input channel is inactive. The digital content input channel and the analog audio input channel are automatically routed to the digital content output channel and the capture output channel when the presentation capture device detects that the digital content input channel is receiving a digital video data stream comprising the content video stream. The digital content input channel is routed to the digital content output channel and the capture output channel when the presentation capture device detects that the digital content input channel is receiving a digital data stream comprising the content video stream and the content audio stream. The presentation capture device further comprises an audio switch configured for receiving the content audio stream determining the source of the content audio stream and automatically routing a predetermined input channel to the digital content output channel and capture output channel according to the source of the content audio stream. The analog audio input channel is automatically routed to the digital content output channel and the capture output channel when the audio switch determines that the content audio stream is not received from the first video switch. The digital content input channel is automatically routed to the digital content output channel and the capture output channel when the audio switch determines that the content audio stream is received from the first video switch.

According to a third aspect the present invention provides a method for simultaneously capturing and routing presentation media. The method comprises the steps of receiving the content video stream at a first video switch from either an analog video input channel or a digital content input channel automatically determining if the digital content input channel is the source of the of the content video stream automatically routing the analog video input channel to a second video switch and a codec if the digital content input channel is not the source of the content video stream automatically routing the digital content input channel to the second video switch and the codec if the digital content input channel is the source of the content video stream transmitting an output of the codec comprising the content video stream to a capture output channel and the second video switch and routing either the output of the first video switch or the output of the codec to a display via a digital content output channel.

According to a fourth aspect the present invention provides a method for switching input configuration of a presentation capture device. The method comprises the steps of receiving the content video stream from an analog video input channel at a first video switch determining that the source of the content video stream is not a digital content input channel automatically routing the analog video input channel to a codec and a digital content output channel capturing the output of the codec comprising the content video stream and displaying the output of the digital content output channel switch to receiving the content video stream from the digital content input channel at the first video switch determining that the source of the content video stream is the digital content input channel and automatically routing the digital content input channel to the codec and the digital content output channel.

The present invention seeks to overcome or at least ameliorate one or more of several problems including but not limited to limiting user interaction when selecting the source of input content.

The present invention relates to presentation capture device for recording and distributing audio and video from one or more content sources and audio and video of a presenter. More particularly the invention relates to a presentation capture device for capturing audio and video from content sources and a presenter as well as automatically detecting input source and distributing the content audio stream and video to a digital sink accordingly.

The content video stream and the content audio stream refer to audio visual AV media used by the presenter during the presentation and may be received as a digital signal or an analog signal. For example the content video stream may be a power point slideshow received from a computer. The content audio stream may be audio accompanying the PowerPoint slideshow.

The presenter video stream and the presenter audio stream refer to AV media of the presenter or audience during the presentation. For example the presenter audio stream may be the audio of a professor s lecture received from the presentation capture device from a wireless microphone. The presenter video stream may be video of the presenter recorded during the lecture. In another example the presenter audio stream may also include questions asked by students in the audience of the lecture and the presenter video stream may include a video of the student asking the question.

The inventive presentation capture device as shown in is receiving the content video stream and the content audio stream from a digital content source such as a computer via a high definition multimedia interface HDMI connection . Additionally the presentation capture device is receiving audio from and video of the lecturer via a wireless microphone and a video camera respectively.

The presentation capture device is configured to simultaneously record the content video stream the content audio stream the presenter audio stream and the presenter video stream to a compressed audio visual format. The presentation capture device mixes the content audio stream and the presenter audio stream and combines the presenter video stream and the content video stream such as by positioning the presenter video stream as a picture by picture PBP window or a picture in picture PIP window.

The presentation capture device combines the audio and video as a compressed AV stream and outputs the compressed AV stream for capture stored locally and uploaded to a server for archiving and on demand playback or live streaming transmitted as an AV stream over Ethernet . For example the presentation capture device may output the compressed AV stream for storage on a USB memory stick which the lecturer may take with him. Alternatively the presentation capture device may transmit the compressed AV stream on a network for remote storage. Additionally the presentation capture device may output the compressed AV stream to a media server for live streaming over a network.

Additionally the presentation capture device processes and distributes a combination of the content audio stream the content video stream the presenter audio stream and the presenter video stream to a digital sink for display during the lecture. For example the presentation capture device may transmit the content audio stream and the content video stream to a television with embedded speakers. The presentation capture device may also transmit combined video of the content video stream and the presenter video stream as well as combined audio of the content audio stream and the presenter audio stream to a digital sink . Advantageously the presentation capture device is configured to detect the source type of the incoming content audio stream and content video stream and automatically distribute the appropriate sources to a digital sink without requiring user interaction with the device such as selecting a source.

A USB output is disposed on the front panel of the inventive presentation capture device for receiving a USB memory stick. The presentation capture device outputs the combination of the content audio stream the content video stream the presenter audio stream and the presenter video stream to the USB memory stick via USB output. Advantageously the lecturer is provided with a recording of the captured lecture on the USB memory stick when the lecture has ended.

The back panel also comprises a network interface for communicating on a network. The presentation capture device is configured to transmit and receive information from a network such as a local area network LAN or the world wide web via network interface . Advantageously the presentation capture device may be remotely controlled from a computer on the network executing a software program as either a locally stored program or in an internet browser. The software may be Roomview software that is available from Crestron Electronics Inc. of Rockleigh N.J. Additionally the presentation capture device may send information to the network. For example the presentation capture device may transmit the compressed AV stream of the captured lecture for storage or streaming on the network and may also transmit status information to the network.

The back panel further comprises multiple inputs for receiving video and audio. A digital content input is configured for receiving a cable from a digital content source transmitting digital content video stream and digital content audio stream as a digital data stream. For example the digital content input may an HDMI input a DisplayPort input or a DVI input.

An analog video input is configured for receiving a cable from an analog video source transmitting analog content video stream. For example the analog video input may be a red green blue horizontal sync vertical sync RGBHV input port configured for receiving an analog component video signal comprising video in RGBHV RGBs RGsB or YUV format.

An audio input is configured to receive a cable from an analog audio source transmitting analog content audio stream. For example the audio input may be an audio jack configured to receive two channels of analog audio.

A camera input is configured to receive a cable from a camera source such as a video camera transmitting the presenter video stream. For example the camera input may be an RCA jack configured for receiving composite video from a video camera.

A microphone input is configured to receive an input connector from a microphone transmitting the presenter audio stream. For example the microphone input may be a TRS connector port configured to receive a TRS connector jack from a microphone. In another embodiment the TRS connector jack may receive audio from a wireless microphone receiver. The wireless microphone receiver may comprise an RF transceiver for receiving a digital RF signal from a wireless microphone comprising the content audio stream and transmitting a corresponding analog audio signal received via TRS connector jack.

The back panel further comprises multiple outputs for transmitting video and audio. A digital content output is configured for receiving a cable for transmitting the content video stream and the content audio stream as a digital data stream to a digital content sink such as over an HDMI connection DVI connection or DisplayPort connection. For example the digital content output may be transmitting digital video and digital audio to a television with embedded speakers. Further the presentation capture device may transmit a combination of digital content video stream digital presenter video stream digital content audio stream and digital presenter audio stream to a digital data sink via a digital content output such as an HDMI connection.

An analog video output is configured for receiving a cable for transmitting analog content video stream to an analog video sink. For example the analog video output may be a red green blue horizontal sync vertical sync RGBHV output port configured for transmitting an analog component video signal comprising the content video stream in RGBHV RGBs RGsB or YUV format.

An analog audio output is configured to receive a cable for transmitting both presenter and content analog audio to an analog audio sink. For example the audio output may be an audio jack configured to transmit the presenter audio stream to a speaker via a speaker cable.

The presentation capture device is configured to capture a presentation by simultaneously recording a combination of the content video stream the content audio stream and the presenter audio stream. The presentation capture device receives the content video stream through the digital content input channel or the analog video input channel . Both the digital content input channel and the analog video input channel transmit the content video stream to a first video switch . The first video switch is configured to convert analog video to digital video if received from the analog video input channel and transmit the content video stream from either input channel to a video processor . The video processor is configured to scale the content video stream according to requirements of the compressed AV format that will be recorded or streamed. The video processor is configured to transmit the content video stream to a codec for further processing.

The presentation capture device receives the presenter audio stream at the microphone input channel . The presenter audio stream is processed at a digital signal processor which is configured to process the audio and equalize the level. The presenter audio stream is transmitted to an audio mixer which is configured to route audio to the codec for further processing.

The presentation capture device may also receive the content audio stream from the digital content input channel or the analog audio input channel . The first video switch is further configured for extracting the content audio stream from the content video stream received at the digital content input channel . An audio switch is configured for receiving the content audio stream from the digital content input channel and the analog audio input channel . The audio switch routes the received content audio stream to the audio mixer . The audio mixer is further configured to mix the content audio stream with the presenter audio stream and transmit the combined presenter and the content audio stream to the codec .

In a further embodiment the presentation capture device is configured to capture the presenter video stream and incorporate it as part of the captured lecture. A camera input channel receives the presenter video stream from a camera source such as a video camera. The video processor is further configured to receive the presenter video stream from the camera input channel and convert it from analog to digital. The video processor then combines the presenter video stream with the content video stream by either inserting it as a PIP window or as a PBP window. The combined video stream is transmitted to the codec .

The codec is configured to receive a combination of the content video stream the content audio stream the presenter video stream and the presenter audio stream from the video processor and from the audio mixer. The codec is configured to encode the combination of the content video stream the content audio stream the presenter video stream and the presenter audio stream in a compressed AV format as a digital data stream. The digital data stream from the codec may be output to a capture output channel such as a USB output or a network interface .

The presentation capture device is further configured to distribute a combination of the content video stream the presenter video stream the content audio stream and the presenter audio stream to one or more local sinks via output channels. Specifically the presentation capture device further comprises a digital content output channel digital content transmitter and a second video switch . The second video switch is configured for receiving an output from the first video switch and an output from the codec . According to user preference the second video switch routes either of these outputs to the digital content transmitter . The digital content transmitter is configured to receive video from the second video switch and transmit said video to a digital sink via digital content output channel . Additionally if the video received from the first video switch is output from the first video switch and not the codec the digital content transmitter may combine the audio from the audio mixer to the digital data stream according to user preference. Finally the presentation capture device may transmit the output of the codec via digital content output channel . For example the output of the codec may be transmitted to a confidence monitor providing the lecturer with visual feedback of the combined video stream such as by allowing him to view whether he is in the field of view of the video camera or if a PIP window is blocking important underlying content.

Advantageously the presentation capture device is configured to automatically detect an input configuration of content sources and distribute an appropriate combination of the content video stream and the content audio stream to a digital content output channel without user interaction. Specifically the first video switch is configured to automatically detect the input configuration by detecting a source type of the content video stream and route the corresponding input channel accordingly. Similarly the audio switch is configured to detect whether it is receiving the content audio stream from the first video switch and route the appropriate input channel.

The first video switch may receive content in one of three configurations. Depending on the configuration the first video switch and audio switch automatically route an optimal combination of input channels to the codec via video processor and the digital content output channel via second video switch and the digital content transmitter without the user having to select the source.

If the first video switch determines in step that the content video stream is received from the digital content input channel the method proceeds to step wherein the audio switch determines whether the content audio stream has been extracted by the first video switch from a digital data stream and transmitted to the audio switch by the video switch. If the audio switch determines that the content audio stream is not received from the first video switch in step the audio switch automatically routes the analog audio input channel to the codec and the digital content output channel via audio mixer and digital content transmitter . If the audio switch determines that the content audio stream is received from the first video switch in step the audio switch automatically routes the digital content input channel to the codec and the digital content output channel via audio mixer and digital content transmitter .

In step the presentation capture device begins receiving the content video stream from a digital video source instead. In step the first video switch determines that the content video stream is being received from the digital content input channel . In step the digital content input channel is automatically routed to the codec and the digital content output channel via video processor and the second switch and digital content transmitter respectively. In step a combination of the content video stream the content audio stream the presenter video stream and the presenter audio stream is captured as an output of the codec and transmitted via digital content output channel as either an output of the codec or an output of the second switch .

In step the presentation capture device begins receiving the content video stream and the content audio stream from a digital content source instead. In step the first video switch determines that the content video stream is being received from the digital content input channel . In step the digital content input channel is automatically routed to the codec and the digital content output channel via video processor and the second switch and digital content transmitter respectively. In step the audio switch determines that the audio is being received from the first video switch . In step the digital content input channel is automatically routed to the codec and the digital content transmitter via audio mixer . In step a combination of the content video stream the content audio stream the presenter video stream and the presenter audio stream is captured as an output of the codec and transmitted via digital content output channel as either an output of the codec or an output of the second switch and the audio mixer .

To solve the aforementioned problems the present invention is a unique device configured for simultaneously capturing a combination of the content video stream the content audio stream the presenter video stream and the presenter audio stream is for storage or streaming as well as for distributing to a digital sink.

Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the spirit or the scope of the invention. For example the presentation capture device could be equipped with an RF transceiver for communicating wirelessly with a network.

