---

title: Specialized restraint systems for amusement rides
abstract: The patron restraint system for amusement rides includes a locking receiver with a locking assembly for engaging a restraining strap. The engagement of the restraining strap in the locking receiver can be verified by a ride operator by visual or physical inspection, or by a sensor system indicating the locked or unlocked state of the locking receiver. A latching ratchet mechanism may be provided in the receiver to restrict movement of the restraining strap until it is released by the ride operator. The sensor system includes an acoustic sensor that detects alignment of an aperture with a piezoelectric acoustic emitter and an acoustic detector.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09580043&OS=09580043&RS=09580043
owner: Team IX, Ltd.
number: 09580043
owner_city: Newbury Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150821
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 944 488 filed Jul. 17 2013 which is a divisional of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 046 678 filed Mar. 11 2011 U.S. Pat. No. 8 505 383 issue date Aug. 13 2013 which is a divisional of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 732 345 filed Apr. 3 2007 U.S. Pat. No. 7 905 789 issue date Mar. 15 2011 which are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Seat belt type restraint systems have been used extensively to restrain riders in vehicles as well as amusement rides and devices. Typically seat belt type patron restraint systems have a manual latching system that is engaged or released by the patron rider . There are presently no seat belts with locking systems that do not require external electrical power and or an external energy source to achieve the locked condition. Conventional seat belt systems do not commonly have the ability to provide redundant locking systems. Conventional seat belts do not currently have redundant locking systems that are fail safe fail to safe under loss of power or external energy. Conventional seat belts do not commonly have a sensor or indicator method for validating the latched condition to the ride operator or attendant that do not require external electrical power and or an external energy source. There are presently no seat belt or other type of safety restraint locking system sensors that are commonly providing reliable operation under conditions of contamination with dirt moisture lubricants or other debris that do not require adjustment.

Industry standards for patron restraint systems on amusement rides and devices range from restraint devices for kiddie rides through restraint systems for spectacular and high acceleration rides. The industry standards require the ride designer to perform a patron containment analysis to make sure the patron is contained on the ride under normal and anticipated emergency operation. Authorities Having Jurisdiction AHJ Regulatory are imposing more stringent requirements for patron restraints. These AHJ s are requiring individual patron restraints where multiple patron restraints were used. The AHJ s are requiring locking restraints where previously latching patron restraints had been used. The term latching as used herein implies that the restraint can be unlatched at any time during a ride cycle by a patron or patrons. The term locking as used herein implies that the restraint is locked prior to the start of the ride cycle and can not be opened until the ride cycle is completed and the patrons are ready to exit the ride. The industry requirements range from patron restraints that are used to contain multiple patrons with a single restraint device and are manually latched and released to patron restraints that are automatically locked and automatically released. Depending on the accelerations imposed on the patrons and the ride designer s containment analysis the patron restraints are required to be redundant fail safe fail to safe and where necessary to have a secondary latching or locking patron restraint element. The latching or locking of simpler patron restraints can be accomplished by the ride operator or attendant by manual and or visual means. Rides requiring redundancy and or secondary patron restraints also need to be automatically locked and unlocked by the ride operator and have sensors that prevent the ride from starting in the event the patron restraint is not properly positioned and locked. Rides requiring redundancy and or secondary patron restraints are required whenever possible to cause the ride to stop in the event a patron restraint comes open while the ride is in operation.

Industry standards also require that a restraint system on amusement rides and devices should provide a manual release of the restraint system that can be operated by authorized personnel in an emergency without special tools. This requirement places emphasis on a restraint release system that can be applied to individual or selected groups of restraints to evacuate riders from any location on a ride circuit.

One known type of patron restraint system requires power such as electrical power or compressed air in order to lock the restraint system and loss of power will unlock the restraint system. This type of patron restraint system will therefore not provide fail safe operation for the majority of commonly used amusement rides and devices where electrical power or compressed air are not available on the ride during operation. In addition it has been found that patron restraint systems that rely upon electrical power or compressed air to maintain locking of the restraint system are prone to failure since electrical power and air pressure can be lost under a number of conditions such as failure of a pipe pneumatic tubing or a faulty control valve for example.

A number of amusement rides use an over the shoulder restraint system. To prevent a rider from slipping out from under the shoulder restraint ride manufacturers have added a high point at the front of the seat that goes between the rider s legs and a crotch strap that is intended to keep the rider from slipping out from under the shoulder restraint under dynamic forces of the ride. The crotch strap also helps to prevent the shoulder restraint from opening in the event of a failure of the locking system for the shoulder restraint. However most crotch straps are made up of short lengths of a seat belt with a standard seat belt buckle and tongue engagement that is not lockable and that can be released by a rider. There is a long standing but unresolved need in the amusement ride and device industry for a simple high strength low maintenance locking restraint system that can augment or replace existing restraint systems. The long standing but unresolved need also includes the requirement for a restraint system that is fully adjustable and able to accommodate all sizes of patrons from children on suitable rides through the 99percentile male and female with comfort and proper containment.

It would therefore be desirable to provide a patron restraint system for a vehicle typically having a plurality of seats that meets or exceeds industry standards and requirements established by Authority Having Jurisdiction AHJ Regulatory for patron containment and restraint on amusement rides and devices in a system that can accommodate riders from a 99percentile male down to and including a minimum height 50percentile male or female for which the ride or attraction is suitable so as to accommodate riders with a minimum height of 36 inches 2.5 to 3 years of age . It would also be desirable to provide a patron restraint system for a vehicle typically having a plurality of seats that meets requirements for single or redundant locking of the patron restraint system. It would also be desirable to provide a specialized patron restraint system that would provide a fully lockable belt type restraint to improve rider containment without requiring physical alteration of existing seat designs in any substantial way. It would also be desirable to provide a specialized patron restraint system that provides a ride operator a way of visually verifying that the restraint is properly engaged for a properly seated rider. The present invention meets these and other needs.

Briefly and in general terms the present invention provides for a patron restraint system for a seat of a vehicle of an amusement ride. The restraint system includes a restraining strap at least a portion of which is toothed or grooved and a locking receiver having a toothed or grooved locking element that engages the toothed or grooved portion of the restraining strap. One end of the restraining strap is anchored to the frame of the ride and the other end of the restraining strap is free and accessible to the rider. In one presently preferred aspect the restraining strap may include a restraining strap pad adapted to overly a patron s lap or torso and an additional crotch strap and one or more shoulder straps may be connected to the restraining strap at the area of the restraining strap pad. Upon entering the seat the rider lifts the restraining strap and loosely brings it across the rider s lap. The rider then inserts the free end of the restraining strap into an entry aperture in the locking receiver and pushes the restraining strap through the receiver until the free end of the restraining strap exits the receiver through an exit aperture. The free end of the restraining strap is typically colored in bands so that it is visible to the ride operator. The rider continues to push or pull the restraining strap through the receiver until it is comfortably tightened in place against the rider s lap.

Each locking receiver includes a locking assembly for locking the restraining strap so that the restraining strap can not be withdrawn from the receiver unless some action to unlock the receiver is taken by the ride operator. The position of the restraining strap in the locking receiver can provide a visual indication of the locked or unlocked state of the receiver. The ride operator thus can visually or physically verify that each rider is properly seated and that the patron restraint system is in proper contact with each rider s body and that the locking receivers at each seat are engaged. When the ride operator is satisfied that the riders are secured the ride operator can then start the ride cycle. Alternatively or supplemental to visual or physical checking of the condition of the seat restraints one or more lock sensors may be provided in each receiver to detect a locked condition of the locking receivers to output information to a controller as to the locked or unlocked state of the receiver. Control decisions for the ride may thus be made by a ride operator based on visual inspection of the restraining strap and locking receiver and based on information at a controller from one or more sensors within the receiver that sense the state of mechanical locking elements within the receiver. A means for unlocking the receiver also is provided that does not require special tools or internal or external energy sources.

A latching ratchet mechanism optionally also may be provided in the receiver to restrict the restraining strap movement so that the restraining strap remains in place and can not be loosened or disengaged from the receiver until it is released by the ride operator whether by physically releasing the patron restraint system by pressing a mechanically connected release mechanism on the ride or by pushing a RESTRAINT OPEN button or by turning a RELEASE OPEN switch on the ride control panel so that the restraints are then automatically released when the ride is verified to be in a Load Unload position. During this time the locking elements in the receiver are in an engaged position.

The present invention accordingly provides for a patron restraint system for use with a seat of a vehicle of an amusement ride including a flexible restraining strap and a locking receiver for receiving the restraining strap. The restraining strap has an anchored end mounted to a frame of the seat and a free end and at least a portion of the restraining strap has a plurality of notches or teeth on at least one side of the restraining strap. In a presently preferred aspect the free end of the restraining strap is colored to facilitate visual inspection of proper insertion of the restraining strap in the locking receiver. The locking receiver includes a housing defining a restraining strap channel for receiving the restraining strap and the restraining strap channel has an entry opening at one end of the channel and an exit opening at the other end of the channel. The locking receiver includes a locking assembly having at least one locking element having an engaged position for engaging the restraining strap to prevent movement of the restraining strap and having a released position for releasing the restraining strap to permit movement of the restraining strap. In one presently preferred aspect the locking assembly includes first and second locking elements. The patron restraint system also includes means for moving one or more of the locking elements to the engaged position and for moving the one or more locking elements to the released position.

In a presently preferred embodiment the housing of the locking receiver contains guide walls defining the restraining strap channel and the locking assembly includes a cylindrical locking wheel rotatably mounted in the housing. In another presently preferred aspect the locking wheel has an outer surface defining a plurality of notches or teeth corresponding to the notches or teeth of the restraining strap for engaging the restraining strap and the restraining strap channel extends about the locking wheel. First and second locking elements are provided and include a pair of locking plates slidably mounted for slidable movement between an engaged position engaging the locking wheel and a released position spaced apart from the locking wheel. In a preferred aspect the first and second locking plates each have a first end and a second end the first end having a plurality of notches or teeth for engaging corresponding notches or teeth of the locking wheel and the second end having a cam aperture wherein the means for moving the one or more elements includes first and second cylindrical cam pins and the cam apertures of the locking plates are engaged by the cam pins which can be actuated by a ride operator. The locking wheel may further include a latching ratchet mechanism to restrict the restraining strap to movement in one direction to tighten the restraining strap until it is released by a ride operator whether by physically releasing the patron restraint system by pressing a mechanically connected release mechanism on the ride or by pushing a RESTRAINT OPEN button or by turning a RELEASE OPEN switch on the ride control panel so that the restraints are then automatically released when the ride is verified to be in a Load Unload position.

In a second presently preferred embodiment the locking assembly includes first and second mating sections having S shaped sigmoid or sinusoidal surfaces adjacent to each other and defining a restraining strap channel therebetween with one or more of the surfaces defining a plurality of notches or teeth for engaging corresponding notches or teeth of the restraining strap. In a presently preferred aspect at least one of the first and second mating sections is slidably mounted in the housing for movement toward the other of the first and second sections to trap the restraining strap in an engaged position and for movement away from the other of the first and second sections to release the restraining strap in a released position. In another aspect a plurality of compression springs may be mounted in the housing to bias the two sections into engagement with the other. In another presently preferred aspect the means for moving one or more of the locking elements includes a cam device provided between cam arms mounted to the exterior planar sides of the first and second mating sections for alternately engaging and releasing the first and second mating sections of the locking receiver.

In another presently preferred aspect the locking assembly may further include a sensor system to detect whether the locking assembly is engaged. In one aspect the sensor system may utilize an acoustic sensor system including an acoustic emitter for emitting acoustic energy an acoustic detector for sensing the acoustic energy and outputting a detection signal in response to the acoustic energy and one or more alignment elements interposed between the acoustic emitter and the acoustic detector. The one or more alignment elements include one or more acoustic apertures and the one or more alignment elements are mounted in the locking assembly such that when the one or more acoustic apertures are moved into alignment with the acoustic emitter and the acoustic detector the acoustic energy from the acoustic emitter is received by the acoustic detector.

In another presently preferred aspect the one or more alignment elements include a lock plate with an acoustic aperture therethrough and the lock plate is fixed to a sliding shaft telescopically mounted in sliding relationship with a guide mounted to the locking assembly. In another preferred aspect the acoustic emitter is an acoustic pulse emitter the acoustic detector is an acoustic pulse detector and the lock plate is aligned with the acoustic pulse emitter on one side of the acoustic aperture and the acoustic pulse detector on the other side of the acoustic aperture when the locking assembly is in an engaged position.

Other features and advantages of the present invention will become more apparent from the following detailed description of the preferred embodiments in conjunction with the accompanying drawings which illustrate by way of example the operation of the invention.

In a first presently preferred embodiment with reference to the invention provides for a specialized patron restraint system for a seat of a vehicle of an amusement ride not shown . The patron restraint system includes a locking receiver for a flexible toothed or grooved restraining strap . The restraining strap has an anchored end that is mounted to a frame of the seat of the vehicle and a free end that is accessible to a rider for insertion in the locking receiver. In one presently preferred aspect the restraining strap is made of heavy duty plastic typically polyurethane with a steel wire rope or woven Kevlar rope tension member embedded into the polyurethane for example although other high strength flexible abrasion resistant plastics that resist stretching or deformation under load under all environments including but not limited to oil and water may also be suitable. Referring to the restraining strap preferably has a plurality of notches or grooves and a plurality of teeth on at least one side of the restraining strap. The free end of the restraining strap is typically colored in one or more bands shown in so that it can be readily identified visually by the ride operator as will be further explained below.

Referring to the locking receiver includes a housing containing first and second adjacent guide walls defining a restraining strap channel therebetween typically having the form of a U shaped loop for receiving the restraining strap with an entry opening or aperture at one end of the channel and an exit opening or aperture at the other end of the channel. When the restraining strap is inserted in the locking receiver the guide walls guide the restraining strap through the channel about a cylindrical locking wheel or drum rotatably mounted on a cylindrical shaft or pin typically with washers between first and second end plates of the housing shown in . In one presently preferred aspect the cylindrical shaft or pin has at least one notched end with a notch or flange and one of the plates of the housing has a recess with a corresponding shape for receiving the notched end of the shaft or pin to prevent the shaft or pin from rotating. Referring to the locking wheel or drum advantageously has an outer cylindrical surface defining a plurality of notches or grooves and teeth corresponding to the notches or grooves and teeth of the restraining strap for engaging the restraining strap.

With reference to the locking receiver also preferably includes a locking assembly including first and second locking elements mounted in the housing for engaging the locking wheel or drum to prevent rotation of the locking wheel or drum and movement of the restraining strap in an engaged position shown in and for releasing the locking wheel or drum to permit rotation of the locking wheel or drum and movement of the restraining strap in a released position shown in . In a presently preferred aspect the first and second locking elements are first and second locking plates each having a first end with a surface defining a plurality of notches or grooves and teeth corresponding to the notches or grooves and teeth of the restraining strap for engaging the restraining strap and a second end having a cam aperture . The first and second locking plates are slidably mounted in first and second slots of first and second mounting plates for slidable movement between an engaged position shown in and a released position shown in . Referring to the first and second mounting plates are mounted in slots between the first and second end plates of the housing. First and second cylindrical cam pins shown in are rotatably received in apertures shown in in the first and second end plates extending through first and second generally tubular sliding spacers disposed between the first and second locking plates and the first and second end plates of the housing respectively. Each cylindrical cam pin has a longitudinal axis and includes a first end with a cylindrical distal tip that is offset radially outwardly from the longitudinal axis and that is received in the cam aperture of a locking plate. The other end of each of the cam pins typically has a geometric configuration such as a squared or hexagonal end for example for engaging a lever or other means not shown for rotating the cam pin between an engaged position shown in and a released position shown in so that the cam pin can be operated manually by the ride operator or remotely from an operator control console for moving the locking plates between the engaged and released positions.

In a first presently preferred variation of the first embodiment illustrated in the invention provides for a locking receiver enclosed in a housing made up of a top plate a bottom plate and two rectangular end blocks which provide a constraint for the slidable non rotating locking ratchet mechanism . The two rectangular end blocks are attached to the top plate and the bottom plate. The two rectangular end blocks act as a support for the axial shaft that extends through the cylindrical locking wheel rotatably mounted inside the housing. The cylindrical locking wheel has grooves or teeth that are configured to engage the mating grooves or teeth of the flexible passenger restraint strap as described above. One or both sides of the cylindrical locking wheel have the mating section of the locking ratchet mechanism mounted to it. This is necessary so it can be used as a single or redundant locking receiver to accommodate all levels of passenger restraint requirements. Axial compression springs are used to move the fixed locking ratchet mechanism into position to engage the fixed and rotatably mounted locking ratchet mechanism. When the fixed and rotatable members of the locking ratchet system are engaged the cylindrical locking wheel can rotate in one direction to allow for securing and tightening the flexible passenger restraint means. Unlocking of the receiver is accomplished by the use of cam actuated levers mounted to one or both sides of the housing operated by rotation of a cam by a ride operator whether by physically releasing the patron restraint system by pressing a mechanically connected release mechanism on the ride or by pushing a RESTRAINT OPEN button or by turning a RELEASE OPEN switch on the ride control panel so that the restraints are then automatically released when the ride is verified to be in a Load Unload position although other methods for opening the levers could be used such as an auto open air bladder or double acting pneumatic cylinder or solenoid for example. These cam actuated levers disengage the fixed locking ratchet element from contact with the rotatable locking ratchet element that is mounted to the toothed or grooved cylindrical locking wheel thus allowing the flexible passenger restraint to be withdrawn from the receiver. An indicator flag not shown would be visible to the ride operator through a port or opening in the housing to visually indicate that the locking ratchet system is in the locked position. A single or redundant sensor system as described hereinbelow may also be applied to this type of locking receiver. In the event of an emergency the receiver can be unlocked manually by the ride operator or emergency personnel by pressing a release lever that is positioned out of the reach envelope of the passengers.

As is illustrated in in a second variation of the first embodiment a latching unidirectional ratchet mechanism may additionally be provided in the locking wheel or drum of a locking receiver to further restrict the restraining strap to movement in one direction to tighten the restraining strap and prevent movement of the restraining strap in the opposite direction to loosen the restraining strap so that the restraining strap remains in place and can not be loosened or disengaged from the receiver until it is released by the ride operator whether by physically releasing the patron restraint system by pressing a mechanically connected release mechanism on the ride or by pushing a RESTRAINT OPEN button or by turning a RELEASE OPEN switch on the ride control panel so that the restraints are then automatically released when the ride is verified to be in a Load Unload position. For example one or both of the planar sides of the locking wheel or drum may be provided with a plurality of ratchet teeth and a circular plate or disk having a corresponding plurality of ratchet teeth adapted to mate with the ratchet teeth of the locking wheel or drum may be rotatably mounted on the cylindrical shaft of the locking wheel or drum over the ratchet teeth of one or both of the planar sides of the locking wheel or drum. Each circular plate can be mounted for reciprocal movement into and out of engagement with the ratchet teeth of the locking wheel or drum under control of the ride operator. Thus while the a rider is inserting the restraining strap in the locking receiver and when the locking elements of the locking receiver are engaged the ratchet mechanism can be engaged by the ride operator and when the ride cycle is complete the ratchet mechanism can be released by the ride operator along with the locking elements to allow the rider to exit the ride whether by physically releasing the patron restraint system by pressing a mechanically connected release mechanism on the ride or by pushing a RESTRAINT OPEN button or by turning a RELEASE OPEN switch on the ride control panel so that the restraints are then automatically released when the ride is verified to be in a Load Unload position.

In a second presently preferred embodiment the invention provides for a patron restraint system for a seat of a vehicle of an amusement ride not shown and the patron restraint system includes a flexible toothed or grooved restraining strap as described above. The free end of the restraining strap can be inserted into a locking receiver such as is described above but having a housing containing a locking assembly shown in formed of first and second mating sections each having an S shaped sigmoid or sinusoidal shaped restraining strap engaging surface and defining an S shaped sigmoid or sinusoidal shaped slot or channel therebetween. At least one of the restraining strap engaging surfaces defines a plurality of notches or grooves and teeth corresponding to the plurality of notches or grooves and teeth of the restraining strap for engaging the restraining strap. At least one of the two mating sections of the locking assembly is slidably mounted in a housing of the locking receiver for movement toward the other of the two mating sections to trap a restraining strap inserted into the slot or channel between them and to exert pressure on the restraining strap to prevent disengagement of the restraining strap and for movement away from the other of the two sections to release the restraining strap.

Referring to in a presently preferred aspect compression springs may be mounted in the housing to bias at least one of the two sections into engagement with the other. In a presently preferred aspect each of the two mating sections is slidably mounted in the housing for movement toward and away from the other with each of the two mating sections including two slot guides and corresponding guide pins operatively arranged in sliding relation for guiding the sliding movement of the two mating sections with toward and away from each other with Elgiloy compression springs mounted in the housing adjacent to each of the two sections to bias the two sections into engagement. A cam device under control of the operator may be provided on the exterior planar sides of the two mating sections between cam arms mounted to the exterior planar sides of the two mating sections for alternately engaging and releasing the two mating sections of the locking assembly. Whereas a restraining strap placed over an outer portion of a locking wheel or drum may typically engage less than half of the circumference of the locking wheel or drum by engaging the restraining strap with such a locking assembly having mating sections with S shaped sigmoid or sinusoidal shaped restraining strap engaging surfaces as is described above the restraining strap can be engaged over a distance that is greater than or equal to half of the exterior circumference of a comparable locking wheel or drum to reduce the possibility of unanticipated disengagement.

The locking receiver may also be provided with a redundant sensor system to detect whether the restraining strap is properly engaged. Sensors may be placed in the slot guides at appropriate locations adjacent to the guide pins for detecting engaged and released positions of the guide pins as well as non optimal alignment of the guide pins. The sensors preferably should be should be very fault tolerant and should be unaffected by dust dirt and moisture. A sensor also may be provided in the receiver to detect insertion of the restraining strap in the receiver.

Referring to in a presently preferred aspect the sensor system may be an acoustic sensor system that detects a proper alignment of a plurality of apertures or windows provided in a plurality of slidably or rotatably mounted plates such that when the apertures or windows are moved into alignment energy from a piezoelectric acoustic emitter is permitted to reach an acoustic detector such as a piezoelectric sensor for example. If any one aperture or window is not in alignment the sonic energy and consequently a correct output signal from the detector will be blocked and correct positioning of the guide pins will not be detected.

The configuration of the sensors is typically such that a low output indicates a not engaged or not present condition. This configuration is fail safe in that if a sensor becomes defective it reports a not engaged or not present response to the controlling device. The ride is shown to be in a READY state when indicators report that the locking receivers of all seats are locked and optionally also that the restraining straps are all inserted in the locking receivers. The ride operator can observe that the locking receivers at each seat are engaged by observing the READY indication on an operator control console OCC . When the ride operator observes the READY indicator on the OCC the ride operator can then start the ride cycle by pressing the RIDE START button on the OCC. At the end of the ride cycle the ride operator manually or automatically releases the locking elements in the locking receivers so that the restraining straps can be extracted from the receivers and the riders can then exit the ride.

By using a plurality of time delayed pulses of sonic energy such as three time delayed pulses for example and a decoder with a threshold detector in the acoustic detector random or non synchronized noise can be filtered out and will not cause triggering of an output of an alignment signal. This system is immune to high levels of noise due to thresholding a uniquely timed pulse triplet. In the sensor system for the safety restraint the required pulse group could be generated using a piezoelectric emitter driven by a pulse code generator . The receiver can be implemented by a piezoelectric sensor that generates a voltage output proportional to the acoustic input. A decoder receiving the output from the piezoelectric sensor can be set to sequentially separate the three unique time coded pulses P P P with intervals of time T Tbetween them from random noise. By properly selecting the acoustic pulses in a shape resembling a soliton wave and designing the acoustic transmission apertures or windows to act as a channel for the soliton wave the effects of dust dirt moisture and lubricant contamination which might otherwise reduce signal level at the detector can significantly reduced.

Referring to a lock plate with an aperture or window therethrough may be fixed to a sliding guide with a shaft telescopically mounted in sliding relationship with a fixed plate or guide aligned with an acoustic pulse emitter on one side of the aperture and an acoustic pulse detector aligned on the other side of the aperture when the locking wheel or drum is in an engaged or locked position so that acoustic pulses will be conducted from the acoustic pulse emitter to the acoustic pulse detector only when the locking elements of the locking receiver are in a locked position. This system allows for redundant sensors for each of the guides to sense a locked or engaged condition and an unlocked or released condition of the locking receiver.

In another presently preferred aspect as is illustrated in the restraining strap of the patron restraint system of the invention may include a restraining strap pad molded or mounted onto the restraining strap at a location on the restraining strap such that the restraining strap pad is adapted to overly a patron s lap or torso when a patron is seated on the amusement ride seat with the restraining strap in place in the patron restraint system. As is shown in the restraining strap pad may include internal stiffening or reinforcement members for shaping or stabilizing the structure of the restraining strap pad as may be required to suitably fit over a patron s lap or torso.

Referring to the patron restraint system of the invention may also include a crotch strap having a free end adapted to be received in a locking receiver and an opposing end connected to the restraining strap by a mechanical interface such as within the restraining strap pad adapted to overly a patron s lap or torso.

Referring to the patron restraint system of the invention may also include one or a pair of left and right shoulder straps having ends connected to the restraining strap and opposing ends connected to an anchor mounted to a portion of the seat or vehicle. The shoulder straps may be connected to the restraining strap by a mechanical interface such as within the restraining strap pad adapted to overly a patron s lap or torso. Referring to the shoulder straps may also include shoulder pads molded or mounted onto the shoulder straps at a location on the shoulder straps such that the shoulder pads are adapted to overly a patron s shoulder when a patron is seated on the amusement ride seat with the restraining strap and shoulder straps in place in the patron restraint system. As is illustrated in the patron restraint system may include the crotch strap and one or both shoulder straps connected to the restraining strap such as within the restraining strap pad adapted to overly the patron s lap or torso by the mechanical interface and such that the crotch strap is adapted to be received in another locking receiver as shown in .

It will be apparent from the foregoing that while particular forms of the invention have been illustrated and described various modifications can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. For example it should be readily apparent that while the foregoing description has referred to one cylindrical locking wheel or drum rotatably mounted on a cylindrical shaft two or more coaxial cylindrical locking wheels or drums or sections may be rotatably mounted on the same shaft with each of the locking wheels or drums or sections having its own locking means. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the appended claims.

