---

title: Image forming system, server, image forming apparatus, and image forming method that ensure simple execution of application
abstract: An image forming system includes an image forming apparatus and a server connectable to the image forming apparatus. The image forming apparatus includes: a model-unique-information transmitting unit that transmits model-unique information of the image forming apparatus to the server; and a function-control mediating unit that controls functions of respective units based on an instruction from the server when an application corresponding to the model-unique information transmitted to the server is executed at the server. The server includes: a model-unique-information receiving unit that receives the model-unique information; an application managing unit that manages and executes the application corresponding to the model-unique information; and an interface unit that instructs the function-control mediating unit to perform control corresponding to the model-unique information, based on an instruction of the control on a function of the image forming apparatus from the application executed by the application managing unit.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09413918&OS=09413918&RS=09413918
owner: Kyocera Document Solutions Inc.
number: 09413918
owner_city: Osaka
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20150331
---
This application relates to and claims priority from Japanese Patent Application Nos. 2014 072100 and 2014 072102 each filed in the Japan Patent Office on Mar. 31 2014 the entire disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Unless otherwise indicated herein the description in this section is not prior art to the claims in this application and is not admitted to be prior art by inclusion in this section.

In typical image forming apparatuses such as a multifunctional peripheral MFP and a printer that can print a document and an image application programs herein after simply referred to as application can be installed and executed. These applications ensure addition of functions such as PDF creation business card management and account management to the image forming apparatus. The application also ensures cooperation with equipment such as a camera.

There is proposed a technique of the image forming apparatus that includes a storage unit storing these applications and performs image processing using various applications stored in the storage unit.

An image forming system according to one aspect of the disclosure includes an image forming apparatus and a server connectable to the image forming apparatus. The image forming apparatus includes a model unique information transmitting unit that transmits model unique information of the image forming apparatus to the server and a function control mediating unit that controls functions of respective units based on an instruction from the server when an application corresponding to the model unique information transmitted to the server is executed at the server. The server includes a model unique information receiving unit that receives the model unique information transmitted by the model unique information transmitting unit of the image forming apparatus an application managing unit that manages and executes the application corresponding to the model unique information acquired by the model unique information receiving unit and an interface unit that instructs the function control mediating unit of the image forming apparatus to perform control corresponding to the model unique information based on an instruction of the control on a function of the image forming apparatus from the application executed by the application managing unit.

These as well as other aspects advantages and alternatives will become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art by reading the following detailed description with reference where appropriate to the accompanying drawings. Further it should be understood that the description provided in this summary section and elsewhere in this document is intended to illustrate the claimed subject matter by way of example and not by way of limitation.

Example apparatuses are described herein. Other example embodiments or features may further be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented herein. In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part thereof.

The example embodiments described herein are not meant to be limiting. It will be readily understood that the aspects of the present disclosure as generally described herein and illustrated in the drawings can be arranged substituted combined separated and designed in a wide variety of different configurations all of which are explicitly contemplated herein.

Firstly a description will be given of the configuration of the image forming system X with reference to . The image forming system X includes for example an image forming apparatus and a server . The image forming apparatus issues an instruction of execution of an application. The server is connectable to the image forming apparatus . The image forming apparatus is an MFP a single function printer or similar apparatus that includes an operation panel unit in and similar member and can use the application associated with this equipment in collaboration with the server . The server is an information processor such as a PC server such as PC AT compatible machine or an ARM registered trademark server which is placed on what is called cloud such as a data center on the Internet registered trademark and a server on the intranet. The server stores the application associated with the image forming apparatus and can execute the application in accordance with the instruction from the image forming apparatus . The image forming apparatus and the server are connected to a network such as a Local Area Network LAN a wireless LAN a Wide Area Network WAN and a mobile phone network.

Next a description will be given of the overall configuration of the image forming apparatus with reference to . In the image forming apparatus a control unit connects to an image processing unit a document reading unit a document feeding unit a conveying unit a feed roller a conveyance roller pair and a discharge roller pair a network transmission reception unit the operation panel unit an image forming unit a storage unit and similar member. The control unit operates and controls the respective units.

The control unit is an information processing unit such as a General Purpose Processor GPP a Central Processing Unit CPU a Micro Processing Unit MPU a Digital Signal Processor DSP a Graphics Processing Unit GPU and an Application Specific Processor ASIC . The control unit reads a control program stored in a ROM or a HDD of the storage unit deploys this control program into a RAM and executes this control program so as to cause the control unit to operate as each unit of function blocks described later. Further the control unit performs the control of the entire apparatus corresponding to predetermined instruction information that is input from an external terminal not illustrated or the operation panel unit .

The image processing unit is an operation control unit such as the Digital Signal Processor DSP and the Graphics Processing Unit GPU . The image processing unit is a unit that performs predetermined image processing on data of various images and performs for example various image processing such as scaling print density adjustment gradation adjustment and image improvement. The image processing unit stores the image read by the document reading unit as print data in the storage unit . At this time the image processing unit can also convert the print data into a file unit in a PDF a TIFF or a similar format.

The document reading unit is a unit that reads scans a set document. The document feeding unit is a unit that conveys the document to be read by the document reading unit . The image forming unit is a unit that causes image formation on a recording sheet based on the data stored in the storage unit the data read by the document reading unit or the data acquired from the external terminal by an output instruction of users. The conveying unit the feed roller the conveyance roller pair and the discharge roller pair conveys the recording sheet from a sheet feed cassette and causes image formation on the recording sheet at the image forming unit and then conveys the recording sheet to a stack tray . Here the respective operations of the document reading unit the document feeding unit the conveying unit and the image forming unit will be described later.

The network transmission reception unit is a network connection unit that includes a LAN board a wireless transceiver and similar member for connecting to an external network such as LAN wireless LAN WAN and a mobile phone network. The network transmission reception unit transmits and receives data via a data communication line and transmits and receives a voice signal via a voice grade telephone line. The network transmission reception unit may be connected to an external terminal such as a Personal Computer PC a smart phone a Personal Data Assistant PDA and a mobile phone not illustrated the server and similar member via the network.

The operation panel unit includes a display unit such as an LCD and an input unit. The input unit includes a numeric keypad a start key a cancel key a button for switching action modes such as copy FAX transmission and scanner a button for issuing an instruction for execution of a job related to printing transmission storage recording or similar operation of a selected document a touch panel and similar member. The operation panel unit acquires the instructions of the user. These instructions of the user include instructions for installing and using applications in described later. Additionally the information of each user can be input or changed in accordance with the user instruction. Accordingly the operation panel unit may include a dedicated control unit and a recording medium such as a ROM and a RAM so as to control a Graphical User Interface GUI in cooperation with the control unit . The detail of the control on the operation panel unit when the applications are installed and used will be described later. The operation panel unit may include a connecting unit for connecting to a recording medium such as a USB flash drive and a flash memory card or external equipment incorporating the recording medium.

The storage unit is a storage unit that employs a recording medium such as a semiconductor memory such as a Read Only Memory ROM and a Random Access Memory RAM and a Hard Disk Drive HDD . The RAM of the storage unit holds the content of the memory by a function such as self refreshing even during the power saving state. The ROM and the HDD in the storage unit store control programs for performing the operation control of the image forming apparatus . In addition the storage unit stores account settings of the user. Further the storage unit may include a region for a document box for each user or for each application in .

Furthermore in the image forming apparatus the control unit and the image processing unit may be integrally formed like a GPU built in CPU or a similar device or a chip on module package. Additionally the control unit and the image processing unit may each incorporate a RAM a ROM a flash memory or a similar memory. The image forming apparatus may include a FAX transmission reception unit that performs facsimile transmission reception.

Next a description will be given of an operation of the image forming apparatus according to the first embodiment of the disclosure with reference to . The document reading unit is arranged on the upper portion of a main unit . The document feeding unit is arranged on the upper portion of the document reading unit . The stack tray is arranged at the side of a discharge port which is formed in the main unit of recording sheets. The operation panel unit is arranged on the front side of the image forming apparatus .

The document reading unit includes a scanner a platen glass and a document reading slit . The scanner is constituted of an exposing lamp a Charge Coupled Device CCD a Complementary Metal Oxide Semiconductor CMOS imaging sensor and similar members. The scanner is capable of moving in the conveyance direction of the document by the document feeding unit . The platen glass is a platen constituted of a transparent member such as glass. The document reading slit has a slit formed in a direction perpendicular to the conveyance direction of the document by the document feeding unit .

When reading the document placed on the platen glass the scanner is moved to the position facing the platen glass . Subsequently the scanner acquires the image data by reading the document while scanning the document placed on the platen glass and outputs the acquired image data to the control unit in included in the main unit . Further when reading the document conveyed by the document feeding unit the scanner is moved to the position facing the document reading slit . Subsequently the scanner acquires image data via the document reading slit by reading the document in synchronization with the conveying operation of the document by the document feeding unit and outputs the acquired image data to the control unit included in the main unit .

The document feeding unit includes a document platen a document discharging unit and a document conveying mechanism . The document placed on the document platen is sequentially fed one by one by the document conveying mechanism conveyed to the position facing the document reading slit and then discharged to the document discharging unit . In addition the document feeding unit is constituted to be collapsible. Lifting up the document feeding unit ensures opening the top surface of the platen glass

The main unit includes the image forming unit and also includes a paper sheet feeder a paper sheet conveyance passage the conveyance roller pair and the discharge roller pair . The paper sheet feeder includes a plurality of sheet feed cassettes and a plurality of feed rollers . The sheet feed cassettes store respective recording sheets having different sizes or orientations. The feed roller feeds the recording sheet one by one to the paper sheet conveyance passage from the sheet feed cassette . The feed roller the conveyance roller pair and the discharge roller pair function as a conveying unit. The recording sheet is conveyed by the conveying unit. The recording sheet which is fed to the paper sheet conveyance passage by the feed roller is conveyed toward the image forming unit by the conveyance roller pair . Then the recording sheet having undergone recording in the image forming unit is discharged to the stack tray by the discharge roller pair .

The image forming unit includes a photoreceptor drum an exposing unit a developing unit a transfer unit and a fixing unit . The exposing unit is an optical unit that includes a laser device a mirror a lens and a light emitting diode array and similar members. The exposing unit outputs a light or similar radiation based on the image data to expose the photoreceptor drum which is primary charged by a charging unit not illustrated and forms an electrostatic latent image on the surface of the photoreceptor drum . The developing unit is a developer unit that develops the electrostatic latent image formed on the photoreceptor drum using toner. The developing unit forms a toner image based on the electrostatic latent image on the photoreceptor drum . The transfer unit transfers the toner image formed on the photoreceptor drum by the developing unit to the recording sheet. The fixing unit heats the recording sheet to which the toner image is transferred by the transfer unit to fix the toner image to the recording sheet.

Next a description will be given of the overall configuration of the server information processor with reference to . The server includes a control unit a network transmission reception unit and a storage unit . The control unit operates and controls the respective units.

The control unit is an information processing unit with operation and control capability for example a GPP a CPU an MPU a DSP a Graphics Processing Unit GPU and an ASIC. The control unit executes respective programs stored in the storage unit with hardware resources.

The network transmission reception unit is a LAN interface a wireless LAN interface a mobile radio wave or similar interface in a standard such as 1000BASE T 100BASE TX for connection to the network . The server can transmit and receive various data via the network transmission reception unit . Here the network transmission reception unit may be connected to an external hub a router or similar device for connection to the network .

The storage unit is a storage unit that includes a RAM a flash memory disk such as a Solid State Drive SSD a Hard Disk Drive HDD a magnetic tape unit an optical disk unit and similar unit. The storage unit stores an Operating System OS for causing the server to function and various programs and data of the server. The detail of these programs and data will be described later.

A description will be given of the control configuration of the image forming system X that includes the image forming apparatus and the server with reference to . The control unit of the image forming apparatus includes a model unique information acquiring unit a model unique information transmitting unit and a function control mediating unit . The storage unit of the image forming apparatus stores model unique information and authentication information . The control unit of the server includes a platform that executes the application . This platform includes a model unique information receiving unit an application managing unit and an API unit interface unit . The storage unit of the server stores the model unique information the authentication information and the applications .

The model unique information acquiring unit acquires the model unique information which is the identification information of the model the authentication information and similar information. The model unique information acquiring unit can acquire the authentication information required for use of the application in cooperation with a Web Browser hereinafter referred to as browser of the operation panel unit .

The model unique information transmitting unit transmits the model unique information which is acquired by the model unique information acquiring unit to the server . The model unique information transmitting unit can also transmit the setting information for the browser of the operation panel unit or similar information.

The function control mediating unit controls the functions of the respective units by instructions from the server corresponding to the model unique information which is transmitted to the server by the model unique information transmitting unit . The function control mediating unit functions as what is called a connector that controls the respective units of the image forming apparatus corresponding to the function requested by the API unit of the server . Accordingly when the function control mediating unit receives the command for a function control instruction generated by the API unit of the server and the function control mediating unit analyzes this command and controls the respective units corresponding to the functions achievable in the image forming apparatus using an appropriate method. For example the function control mediating unit can call a copy function a network scan function a document box function or similar function corresponding to the command for the function control instruction. The function control mediating unit selects a usable function among these functions in accordance with the setting of the model unique information .

The function control mediating unit can also directly control the respective units. For example the function control mediating unit may cause the document reading unit to read the document while setting the resolution the color and similar parameter the storage unit to store the reading result as image data the image processing unit to perform image processing on the image data or document data not illustrated in the storage unit drawing of the image on the browser of the operation panel unit and causes the image forming unit to perform image formation of the image data or the document data. The function control mediating unit may perform control closer to the hardware configuration of the equipment for example driving of one of motors in the conveying unit. The function control mediating unit can also call the respective functions of binding stapling and similar function when there is a finisher in the image forming apparatus facsimile transmission reception when there is a FAX transmission reception unit user authentication by a user authentication unit using an IC card or biometrics authentication when there is this user authentication unit and acquisition of a camera image visual line detection and similar function when there is a camera. The availability of calling these functions can be set to the model unique information . The function control mediating unit can control another image forming apparatus terminal or similar member not illustrated via the network transmission reception unit in .

The function control mediating unit may perform processes such as acquisition of the states of the respective units. The function control mediating unit can transmit these acquired states of the respective units the result of calling the functions of the respective units and similar result to the server . At this time the function control mediating unit can also transmit and receive various files and similar data to from the server . For example the function control mediating unit can also transmit and receive scanned image data document data of the document box and similar data. Here for example the function control mediating unit can also transmit and receive image data to from the server in facsimile transmission reception when there is a FAX transmission reception unit and can transmit and receive a user authentication result when there is a user authentication unit or video data when there is a camera.

The operation panel unit receives and displays the screen content of the application from the platform . Accordingly a control unit for the operation panel unit may execute a dedicated browser or similar program stored in a ROM.

The platform includes programs and data including an Application Programming Interface API middleware runtime and similar platform hereinafter referred to as API and similar platform which is an execution platform of the application . The platform includes the service as programs for example classes routines and functions called by the application and the data related to this service. The platform operates on the OS not illustrated installed on the storage unit of the server .

The model unique information receiving unit receives the model unique information transmitted from the model unique information transmitting unit of the image forming apparatus and saves the model unique information in the storage unit . At this time for example the model unique information acquiring unit may check whether the model unique information is not unauthorized.

The application managing unit manages and executes the application corresponding to the model unique information acquired by the model unique information receiving unit . Specifically the application managing unit causes the API of the platform to manage installation activation that causes the state usable by the image forming apparatus execution termination of execution uninstallation and similar process of the application hereinafter these processes are referred to as management of life cycle of the application . The application managing unit also searches the application corresponding to the model unique information so as to present the application to the image forming apparatus . The application managing unit sets the application to a usable state when the authentication information from the image forming apparatus is acquired.

The API unit instructs the function control mediating unit of the image forming apparatus to perform control corresponding to the model unique information based on the instruction from the application during execution. That is the API unit provides the interface for controlling the respective functions of the image forming apparatus from the application . Specifically the API unit references the acquired model unique information to generate the command for instruction hereinafter referred to as function control instruction to control the functions of the respective units included in the image forming apparatus and transmits the command to the function control mediating unit of the image forming apparatus . As the command of this function control instruction the API unit may generate the command that associates the parameter or similar information when the API of the platform is called with the control method corresponding to the function of the image forming apparatus . The API unit also acquires the result of the control on the function of the image forming apparatus information reference or similar process so as to present the result to the application . At this time the API unit may acquire various files and similar data of the result of the function control from the image forming apparatus so as to present the result to the application .

The model unique information includes the equipment unique ID including the model identification number the serial number the production number the unique number and similar number of the image forming apparatus the information regarding the function usable in the image forming apparatus the memory capacity the equipment setting including the print setting the count of printed sheets the charging information and similar information. The information regarding the function of the model unique information includes information such as the display size of the display unit or the browser of the operation panel unit the size of the paper sheet that causes scanning and image formation the type which is color or black and white of scanning and image formation and the existence or non existence of optional equipment such as the finisher the FAX transmission reception unit the user authentication unit the camera and a visual line detection device. The model unique information may include various information such as the IP address of the image forming apparatus the e mail address of the administrator the transmission destination and the address.

The authentication information is the information related to the authentication of the application . The authentication information may include the account information of the user including the administrator the information of an activation key as key information for activating the application application identification information such as the identifier of the application and the type of the application and similar information. In the authentication information the account information may include the user ID and the password. The account information may include the credit card number and the authority information. The authentication information can be registered from the operation panel unit the terminal not illustrated of the user or similar device by each user in advance.

The application is a program that is installed on the server and executed on the platform . The application uses the function of the image forming apparatus via the API unit so as to function in cooperation with the image forming apparatus . Accordingly the application ensures various processes that cannot be used by the image forming apparatus alone. A plurality of the applications may be stored in the storage unit of the server . The application may be for example an application for Optical Character Recognition OCR a monitoring camera watermark generation billing company directory management slip management contract management business card management PDF creation account management group management and similar operation.

The respective applications may be selected as executable or non executable corresponding to the model unique information of the image forming apparatus . In this case when there are a plurality of the image forming apparatuses the respective applications may be set to be or not to be in a usable state corresponding to the respective pieces of the model unique information of these image forming apparatuses . In this case it is possible to employ the configuration that causes activation so as to cause a usable state associated with the image forming apparatus based on the authentication information of this image forming apparatus . The application may be installed from the image forming apparatus or other terminal or similar device not illustrated and then stored in the storage unit . Here it is possible to employ the configuration where the different application is installed for each model of the image forming apparatus .

The application may include an execution file that operates on the platform and various data including the class information. In this case the execution file of the application may be a binary file of the application including for example an intermediate language file of a Java registered trademark application and a native exe file. The application may additionally include necessary data.

Here the storage unit and the storage unit may store various job data specified by the operation panel unit in the image forming apparatus the image data scanned by the document reading unit the image data processed by image processing in the image processing unit the data of a printed document transmitted from another terminal not illustrated various files read out from the connected recording medium the data of a thumbnail image and similar information. The storage unit and the storage unit may include the region of the document box for each user.

Next a description will be given of the installation of the application by the image forming system X according to the first embodiment of the disclosure with reference to and . The application installing process in this embodiment sets the application on the server to be usable based on the instruction of the user. In this application installing process firstly the model unique information is transmitted to the server from the image forming apparatus so as to acquire the list hereinafter referred to as an application list of the applications usable in the image forming apparatus . When the user selects the application within the application list and inputs the activation key the image forming apparatus transmits this activation key included in the authentication information to the server . The server performs activation while the image forming apparatus and the application are associated with each other using this activation key. This causes the usable state of the application associated with the image forming apparatus .

In the application installing process according to this embodiment mainly the control unit and the operation panel unit in the image forming apparatus and the control unit in the server execute the programs stored in the storage unit and the storage unit in collaboration with the respective units using the hardware resources. The following describes the detail of the application installing process for each step with reference to the flowchart in .

Firstly the control unit performs an application list requesting process as the model unique information acquiring unit . When the control unit acquires the instruction for displaying the usable application from the user using the GUI of the browser of the operation panel unit the control unit starts the process for acquiring the application list from the server . The control unit acquires the model unique information from the storage unit to instruct the model unique information transmitting unit to acquire the application list and transmit the model unique information . At this time the control unit may encrypt the model unique information with a public key or similar key.

Subsequently the control unit performs a model unique information transmitting process as the model unique information transmitting unit . The control unit transmits the model unique information whose transmission is instructed and the command for requesting the transmission of the application list to the server at timing T .

Here a description will be given of the process of the server . The control unit of the server performs a model unique information receiving process as the model unique information receiving unit . The control unit receives the model unique information and saves the model unique information in the storage unit . At this time the control unit may check whether the model unique information is not unauthorized by decoding using a secret key. Here the control unit receives the command for requesting the acquisition of the application list so as to notify the application managing unit .

Subsequently the control unit performs an application searching process as the application managing unit . The control unit references the model unique information to search the application from the storage unit and searches the application corresponding to this model unique information so as to generate the application list. At this time for each searched application the control unit also adds the information indicating whether or not the application has already been associated with the image forming apparatus and activated to the application list.

Subsequently the control unit performs an application list transmitting process as the application managing unit . The control unit transmits the generated application list to the image forming apparatus at timing T .

Here a description will be given of the process of the image forming apparatus again. The operation panel unit performs an application list presenting process. The operation panel unit acquires the application list of the searched applications from the server and display the application list on the display unit using the browser.

In a screen example illustrates an example of the displayed application list. In a display field the user name the model the names of the usable applications and similar information are displayed in a list format. In each application in the display field the information indicating whether or not the application is activated is also displayed. A button is a button for issuing an instruction to terminate the display of this application list.

Subsequently the operation panel unit performs an application selecting process. When the user selects the application that has not been usable yet from the list of the names or similar parameter of the usable applications using the GUI the operation panel unit instructs activation. According to a screen example in the operation panel unit displays a dialog box or similar interface for requesting the input of the activation key in a display field . When the user inputs the activation key using the GUI the operation panel unit issues an instruction to acquire and transmit this activation key to the control unit . Here the operation panel unit may perform user authentication or similar process before the activation key is input. When the application that has already been activated is selected the operation panel unit may issues an instruction to use this application .

Subsequently the control unit performs an authentication information transmitting process as the model unique information transmitting unit . The control unit includes the activation key input using the operation panel unit the application identification information of the selected application the account information and similar information in the authentication information and transmits the authentication information to the server . In the example of when the user completes the input the control unit may display a button of Transmit in the display field and transmit the authentication information when the clicking of this button is detected at timing T .

Here a description will be given of the process of the server again. The control unit of the server performs an authentication information receiving process as the application managing unit . When the control unit receives the authentication information from the image forming apparatus the control unit saves the authentication information in the storage unit .

Subsequently the control unit determines whether or not activation is possible as the application managing unit . The control unit decodes the received activation key using a secret key not illustrated or similar key so as to determinate whether or not the activation key is proper. The control unit makes a determination of Yes when the activation key is proper and otherwise makes a determination of No. At this time the control unit may make a determination of No when the control unit compares the application identification information of the authentication information with the model unique information to check whether this application is usable in the image forming apparatus again and the application cannot be used in this equipment by this user or similar condition. The control unit may make a determination of No when the charging information does not have a sufficient balance or similar case. In the case of Yes the control unit proceeds the process to step S. In the case of No the control unit proceeds the process to step S.

When the application can be activated the control unit performs an application activating process as the application managing unit . The control unit associates the application corresponding to the acquired application identification information of the authentication information with the image forming apparatus to cause a usable state so as to perform activation. After this process this application can be executed and used by the instruction from the image forming apparatus . Here the control unit may additionally prepare a database in the storage unit and store the execution or non execution of the activation in this database.

Here the control unit performs an activation result transmitting process as the application managing unit . The control unit transmits activation result information that is the information of the result indicating whether or not the application is activated to the image forming apparatus at timing T .

Here a description will be given of the process of the image forming apparatus again. The operation panel unit performs an activation result displaying process. When the operation panel unit receives the activation result information from the server the operation panel unit displays the activation result information on the display unit using the browser. Thus the application installing process according to the first embodiment of the disclosure is terminated.

Next a description will be given of the application using process by the image forming system X according to the first embodiment of the disclosure with reference to and . The application using process in this embodiment uses the application in the usable state in the server based on the instruction of the user. Firstly when the execution is instructed in the image forming apparatus the application in the server is executed. At this time the information of the instruction hereinafter referred to as GUI instruction of drawing and inputting for the browser of the operation panel unit is transmitted to the image forming apparatus . Similarly the command for the function control instruction of the image forming apparatus is transmitted. The image forming apparatus determines these instructions and performs the processing. In the application using process according to this embodiment mainly the control unit and the operation panel unit in the image forming apparatus and the control unit in the server execute the programs stored in the storage unit and the storage unit in collaboration with the respective units using the hardware resources. The following describes the detail of the application using process for each step with reference to the flowchart in .

Firstly the operation panel unit performs an application execution instruction acquiring process. When the user instructs the execution of the application using the GUI the operation panel unit acquires this instruction as an application execution instruction. Here before this execution of the application the process similar to the application list requesting process and the model unique information transmitting process in may be performed so as to acquire the application list of the executable applications . This application execution instruction may include the model unique information or the authentication information . The operation panel unit may perform user authentication before acquisition of the application execution instruction.

Subsequently the operation panel unit performs an application execution operation instruction transmitting process. The operation panel unit acquires the instruction of the user to the application. This instruction includes the above described application execution instruction and the instruction for operation on the application during execution of the application. The control unit transmits the application execution instruction to the server and transmits the instruction to the application during execution at timing T .

Here a description will be given of the process of the server . As the application managing unit the control unit of the server determines whether or not it is possible to execute the application whose execution is instructed by the application execution instruction or the instruction for operation. When the control unit receives the application execution instruction and when the application whose execution is instructed is activated in association with the image forming apparatus to be in a usable state in the image forming apparatus the control unit makes a determination of Yes. Also when the application has already been executed the control unit makes a determination of Yes. The control unit otherwise determines that the application execution instruction is unauthorized and then makes a determination of No. In the case of Yes the control unit proceeds the process to step S. In the case of No the control unit terminates the process of the server in the application using process.

When the application corresponding to the application execution instruction is executable the control unit performs an application execution process as the application managing unit . The control unit executes the application stored in the storage unit . When the application has already been executed the control unit performs various controls in accordance with the instruction for operation on this application . At this time the control unit also reads out the model unique information corresponding to this application and sets the model unique information to a referable state. The executed application may exchange the information with the image forming apparatus via the platform .

Subsequently the control unit determines whether or not there is a GUI instruction as the application managing unit . When the application is executed and there is a GUI instruction for displaying inputting and similar operation through a GUI for the service of the platform from the application the control unit makes a determination of Yes. The control unit otherwise makes a determination of No. In the case of Yes the control unit proceeds the process to step S. In the case of No the control unit proceeds the process to step S.

When there is a GUI instruction the control unit performs a GUI instruction transmitting process as the application managing unit . The control unit generates the information of the GUI instruction and transmits this information to the image forming apparatus at timing T . This information of the GUI instruction may include a file such as an HTML file and an XML file that can be displayed by the browser a command for socket communication a file displayed on the operation panel unit of the image forming apparatus and similar information. At this time the control unit may determine the display size or similar parameter of the display unit or the browser of the operation panel unit based on the acquired model unique information and then perform adjustment so as to cause the information of the GUI instruction in an appropriate layout.

Here a description will be given of the process of the image forming apparatus again. The operation panel unit of the image forming apparatus determines whether or not the GUI instruction is received. When the operation panel unit receives the information of the GUI instruction the operation panel unit makes a determination of Yes. The operation panel unit otherwise makes a determination of No. In the case of Yes the operation panel unit proceeds the process to step S. In the case of No the operation panel unit proceeds the process to step S.

When the GUI instruction is received the operation panel unit performs an application GUI drawing process. The operation panel unit performs drawing on the display unit corresponding to the information of the GUI instruction using the browser. The operation panel unit can request the instruction of inputting from the user using the GUI. In a screen example illustrates the example of the operation panel unit where the application for OCR is executed in the server . The operation panel unit displays a preview and a character recognition result of the OCR in a display field . Here in the example of this display field when scanning for OCR or similar operation is not actually performed the respective results are not displayed. In this example of the operation panel unit draws a button for inputting the instruction to execute OCR by the user and a button for inputting the instruction to cancel the operation.

In this example of as the application managing unit the control unit of the server transmits the document file of the result of OCR to the image forming apparatus . The operation panel unit receives and displays this document file as the character recognition result in the display field . The control unit or the operation panel unit may store this document file in the document box of the storage unit .

Here a description will be given of the process of the server again. As the API unit the control unit of the server determines whether or not there is a function control instruction. When the application is executed so as to call the function control instruction of for example calling the API of the platform that controls the function of the image forming apparatus from this application the control unit makes a determination of Yes. The control unit otherwise makes a determination of No. In the case of Yes the control unit proceeds the process to step S. In the case of No the control unit proceeds the process to step S and becomes a standby state.

When there is a function control instruction the control unit performs a function control instruction transmitting process as the API unit . The control unit references the model unique information so as to generate the command for the function control instruction corresponding to the function of the image forming apparatus . The control unit transmits this command for the function control instruction to the image forming apparatus at timing T .

Here a description will be given of the process of the control unit of the image forming apparatus again. As the function control mediating unit the control unit determines whether or not the command for the function control instruction is received. When the command for the function control instruction is received the control unit makes a determination of Yes. The control unit otherwise makes a determination of No. In the case of Yes the control unit proceeds the process to step S. In the case of No the control unit proceeds the process to step S.

When the command for the function control instruction is received the control unit performs an each function controlling process as the function control mediating unit . The control unit analyzes the command for the function control instruction and then performs control corresponding to the functions of the respective units of the image forming apparatus . The control unit can directly control the respective units acquire the states of the respective units and acquire the result of the function control and transmit the result to the server so as to perform the process for transmitting and receiving various files between the image forming apparatus and the server .

In the above described example of scanning is performed in the document reading unit and the image file as the result of this scanning is transmitted to the server so as to perform OCR by the application . At this time the control unit of the server can once store the document file as the result of this OCR in the storage unit of the server and transmit the document file based on the instruction from the operation panel unit of the image forming apparatus .

Subsequently the operation panel unit determines whether or not there is an application termination instruction. When the operation panel unit acquires the instruction to terminate the application from the user the operation panel unit makes a determination of Yes. In the example of when the button of Cancel the button of x in the upper right or similar button is clicked the operation panel unit makes a determination of Yes. The operation panel unit otherwise makes a determination of No. In the case of Yes the operation panel unit proceeds the process to step S. In the case of No the operation panel unit returns the process to step S and waits for the instruction from the user.

When the application termination instruction is acquired the operation panel unit performs an application termination instruction transmitting process. The operation panel unit transmits the command for the application termination instruction to the server at timing T . The operation panel unit may include the application identification information in this command for the application termination instruction.

Here a description will be given of the process of the control unit again. The control unit performs an application terminating process as the application managing unit . When the control unit receives the command for the application termination instruction from the image forming apparatus the control unit terminates the execution of the corresponding application and becomes a standby state. Thus the application using process according to the first embodiment of the disclosure is terminated.

With the configuration as described above the following effects can be obtained. The image forming system X of the disclosure includes the image forming apparatus which issues the instruction for execution of the application and the server which is connectable to the image forming apparatus . The image forming apparatus includes the model unique information acquiring unit which acquires the model unique information the model unique information transmitting unit which transmits the model unique information acquired by the model unique information acquiring unit to the server and the function control mediating unit which controls the functions of the respective units based on the instruction from the server corresponding to the model unique information transmitted to the server by the model unique information transmitting unit . The server includes the model unique information receiving unit which receives the model unique information transmitted by the model unique information transmitting unit of the image forming apparatus the application managing unit which manages and executes the application corresponding to the model unique information acquired by the model unique information receiving unit and the API unit which instructs the function control mediating unit of the image forming apparatus to perform control corresponding to the model unique information based on the instruction of the control on the function of the image forming apparatus from the application executed by the application managing unit .

With this configuration the application and the execution platform are managed on the server . Accordingly the image forming system X can use the application even when the capabilities of the control unit and the storage unit in the image forming apparatus are similar to that of the equipment where the application is not installed. That is it is possible to provide the image forming apparatus that can use the application at a low price. Additionally even when the control operation capability of the control unit and the storage capacity of the storage unit in the image forming apparatus are limited the image forming system X need not perform a unique process of the application . This improves the performance of the image forming system X.

The image forming system X need not introduce the application into the image forming apparatus a special server or similar member. This reduces the labor and cost for management of setup or similar process. The image forming system X can select the corresponding application from the plurality of the applications based on the model unique information . This eliminates the need to save the application for each model on the server thus saving the storage area for the application in the storage unit of the server . The image forming system X executes the application on the server . This reduces the risk of hacking of the image forming apparatus that is not sufficiently managed or similar risk thus reducing the security risk.

The application managing unit of the server according to the first embodiment of the disclosure searches the application corresponding to the model unique information and presents the application to the image forming apparatus and acquires the authentication information from the image forming apparatus so as to set the presented application to the usable state. With this configuration it is possible to transmit the model unique information of the image forming apparatus to the server so as to present the appropriate application to the user. Accordingly the user need not install the application by oneself. This reduces the labor and cost for management. The user also need not find out the setting information of the image forming apparatus or the user to introduce or set up the application into the server . This improves the usability of the user. The user also need not perform setting. This reduces the security risk. The service is provided not as a simple client server configuration but as what is called a cloud service. It is possible to collectively manage the license of the application and similar information thus reducing the management cost of the provider of the application . When the user attempts to install the unauthorized application which is pirated modified or similar program it is possible to find the unauthorized program by introducing a security program into the server . This can prevent the distribution or the use of the unauthorized application .

According to the conventional image forming apparatus the image forming apparatus has the platform for operation of the application. Accordingly while appropriate sizes are set to the data save area the working memory area and similar area for the platform in the storage unit of the image forming apparatus a part of the valuable resources is used. Regarding the application that operates on the platform similarly to the platform it is necessary to extend the data save area and the working memory area corresponding to the count of applications that can be introduced. Accordingly to introduce many applications and platforms it is necessary to extend the capacity of the storage unit thus increasing the cost. In contrast when the capacity of the conventional storage unit is maintained the valuable resources are used. This might affect the performance of the entire image forming apparatus and ruin the advantage of the function extension by the application. On the other hand in the image forming system X of this embodiment the image forming apparatus does not store the main body of the application and the operating area of the platform and the application is set to the area on the server . This eliminates the need to extend the storage area of the storage unit in the image forming apparatus thus reducing the cost increase and reducing the degradation in performance.

Here in the above described embodiment the browser of the image forming apparatus is executed by the control unit of the operation panel unit . However the model unique information acquiring unit of the control unit may execute this browser based on the program and the setting information of the browser stored in the storage unit . The setting information of the browser may be stored in the ROM of the storage unit or the operation panel unit . In the above described embodiment the application managing unit of the server determines the display size or similar parameter of the display unit or the browser of the operation panel unit . In contrast the API unit of the server may also generate the command for the function control instruction where the display size or similar parameter of the display unit or the browser of the operation panel unit is determined when generating the command for the function control instruction transmitting process. With this configuration it is possible to flexibly perform the control on the respective units thus reducing the cost.

The application may be associated not for each image forming apparatus but for each user. Accordingly the different application can be used for each user who logs in the image forming apparatus . The application may include general applications for achieving desired functions by calling the respective functions of the image forming apparatus and a management application for controlling these general applications . The application may include the control program and the data of the image forming apparatus or the server for using the functions of the image forming apparatus . With this configuration it is possible to flexibly control the image forming apparatus using the application and enhancing the security.

In the above described embodiment the application has already been in the state stored in the storage unit of the server . However it is also possible to additionally introduce and store the application in the storage unit from the external recording medium connected to the image forming apparatus the recording medium connected to the server the external terminal connected via the network and similar member. In this case this application may be set to be usable only from the user the image forming apparatus or the terminal that has performed the installation. The administrator of the server can update the application . Similarly the administrator of the server can change the information of the application on the association with the image forming apparatus or similar information or can change the information on the association between the model unique information and the application or similar information. With this configuration it is possible to flexibly realize function extension and ensure control on the server thus reducing the management cost.

The storage unit of the image forming apparatus or the storage unit of the server can store the applications different from the application based on the API of the platform . For example the storage unit or the storage unit may store a web application or similar program hereinafter referred to as external application other than the application and the data of the user or similar data. The external application may be called by the instruction of the user using the operation panel unit of the image forming apparatus to be read into the image forming apparatus and executed or executed on the server or may call the data of the user in the image forming apparatus so as to display the data on the operation panel unit . With this configuration it is possible to flexibly selectively use the application of the platform and the external application thus improving the usability of the user.

Firstly a description will be given of the configuration of the image forming system X with reference to . The image forming system X includes for example the image forming system X and a terminal . The image forming apparatus can use the application associated with this equipment in collaboration with the server and the terminal . The server stores the application associated with the image forming apparatus and can execute the application in accordance with the instruction from the terminal .

The terminal is a tablet terminal a Personal Data Assistant PDA a smart phone a mobile phone a PC such as a PC AT compatible machine and similar terminal. The terminal instructs execution operation and similar process of the application and transmits and receives the information to from the image forming apparatus and the server . The image forming apparatus the server and the terminal are connected to the network such as a Local Area Network LAN a wireless LAN a Wide Area Network WAN and a mobile phone network.

The operation panel unit includes a display unit such as a Light Emitting Diode LED and a Liquid Crystal Display LCD panel and an input unit. The input unit includes a numeric keypad a start key a cancel key a button for switching action modes such as copy FAX transmission and scanner a button for issuing an instruction for execution of a job related to printing transmission storage recording or similar operation of a selected document and similar member. The display unit of the operation panel unit may employ a simple configuration that displays alphanumeric characters one byte katakana characters and similar character in one line. The display unit of the operation panel unit may include the LED alone.

Next a description will be given of the overall configuration of the terminal with reference to . The terminal includes a control unit an I O unit an input unit a display unit a network transmission reception unit and a storage unit . The control unit operates and controls the respective units.

The control unit is an information processing unit with operation and control capability for example a GPP a CPU an MPU a DSP a GPU and an ASIC. The control unit executes respective programs stored in the storage unit with hardware resources.

The I O unit is a configuration part to provide an interface for connection to various peripherals such as a DVI an analog RGB an HDMI registered trademark a USB IEEE1394 a serial a parallel an infrared or a wireless. The I O unit is connected to the input unit and the display unit . The I O unit can connect to a recording medium such as a USB flash drive a flash memory card an optical recording medium and external equipment incorporating a flash memory so as to read write the stored file.

The input unit is an input unit such as a keyboard a computer mouse a touch panel and a touch pad to input information such as various settings and user authentication. The input unit acquires the instructions of the user. These instructions of the user include instructions for installing and using the applications in described later. Additionally the information of each user can be input or changed in accordance with the user instruction.

The display unit is a display unit such as an LCD display and an OEL display. The display unit can display various setting screens of an Operating System OS drawing screens of Application Software and similar screen using a Graphical User Interface GUI . The display unit may have a higher resolution and display performance compared with the display unit of the operation panel unit of the image forming apparatus .

The network transmission reception unit is a LAN interface a wireless LAN interface a mobile radio wave or similar interface in a standard such as 1000BASE T 100BASE TX for connection to the network . The terminal can transmit and receive various data the user ID and the password during login and similar data via the network transmission reception unit . Here the network transmission reception unit may be connected to an external hub a router or similar device for connection to the network .

The storage unit is a storage unit that includes a main storage unit such as a RAM and an auxiliary storage unit such as a flash memory disk including an SSD and similar disk an HDD a magnetic tape unit and an optical disk unit. The storage unit stores various programs and data for causing the terminal to function as the terminal for instructing the application in . These programs and data may be executed via a World Wide Web Browser hereinafter referred to as browser or may be executed with a dedicated application installed on the terminal . This dedicated application may be installed when the application is installed on the server . The storage unit also stores an OS with a GUI an application such as a word processor spreadsheet software drawing software a browser and an e mailer the other programs and data and similar information. These programs and data can be read and executed or written by the control unit .

A description will be given of the control configuration of the image forming system X that includes the image forming apparatus the server and the terminal with reference to . The control unit of the image forming apparatus includes the function control mediating unit the function control mediating unit and the model unique information transmitting unit . The storage unit of the image forming apparatus stores the model unique information . The control unit of the server includes the platform that executes the application . This platform includes the model unique information receiving unit the application managing unit and the API unit interface unit . The storage unit of the server stores the model unique information the authentication information and the applications . The control unit of the terminal includes a model unique information acquiring unit a model unique information transmitting unit and an application execution instructing unit . The storage unit of the terminal stores the model unique information and the authentication information .

The function control mediating unit controls the functions of the respective units by instructions when the server executes the application corresponding to the model unique information which is transmitted to the server . The function control mediating unit functions as what is called a connector that controls the respective units of the image forming apparatus corresponding to the function requested by the API unit of the server . Accordingly when the function control mediating unit receives the command for a function control instruction generated by the API unit of the server and the function control mediating unit analyzes this command and controls the respective units corresponding to the functions achievable in the image forming apparatus using an appropriate method. For example the function control mediating unit can call a copy function a network scan function a document box function or similar function corresponding to the command for the function control instruction. The function control mediating unit selects a usable function among these functions in accordance with the setting of the model unique information . The function control mediating unit can also directly control the respective units. For example the function control mediating unit may cause the document reading unit to read the document while setting the resolution the color and similar parameter the storage unit to store the reading result as image data the image processing unit to perform image processing on the image data or the document data not illustrated stored in the storage unit by acquisition from the terminal or acquisition using the document reading unit and the image forming unit to perform image formation of the image data or the document data or the display unit of the operation panel unit to display the image data or the document data. The function control mediating unit may perform control closer to the hardware configuration of the equipment for example driving of one of motors in the conveying unit. The function control mediating unit can also call the respective functions of binding stapling and similar function when there is a finisher in the image forming apparatus facsimile transmission reception when there is a FAX transmission reception unit user authentication or similar process by a user authentication unit using an IC card or biometrics authentication when there is this user authentication unit and acquisition of a camera image visual line detection and similar function when there is a camera. The availability of calling these functions can be set to the model unique information . The function control mediating unit can control the terminal another image forming apparatus or similar member not illustrated via the network transmission reception unit in . The function control mediating unit may perform processes such as acquisition of the states of the respective units. The function control mediating unit can transmit these acquired states of the respective units the result of calling the functions of the respective units and similar result to the server or the terminal . At this time the function control mediating unit can also transmit and receive various files and similar data to from the server or the terminal . For example the function control mediating unit can also transmit and receive scanned image data document data of the document box and similar data to from the server or the terminal . Here for example the function control mediating unit can also transmit and receive image data to the server in facsimile transmission reception when there is a FAX transmission reception unit and transmit and receive a user authentication result when there is a user authentication unit or video data when there is a camera.

The platform includes programs and data including an Application Programming Interface API middleware runtime and similar platform hereinafter referred to as API and similar platform which is an execution platform of the application . The platform includes the service as programs for example classes routines and functions called by the application and the data related to this service. The platform operates on the OS not illustrated installed on the storage unit of the server .

The model unique information receiving unit receives the model unique information transmitted from the model unique information transmitting unit of the terminal or the function control mediating unit of the image forming apparatus and saves the model unique information in the storage unit . At this time for example the model unique information acquiring unit may check whether the model unique information is not unauthorized.

The application managing unit manages and executes the application corresponding to the model unique information received by the model unique information receiving unit . Specifically the application managing unit causes the API of the platform to manage installation activation that causes the state usable by the image forming apparatus and the terminal execution termination of execution uninstallation and similar process of the application hereinafter these processes are referred to as management of life cycle of the application . More specifically the application managing unit performs installation introduction where the application received from the terminal is stored in the storage unit in a usable state. When the application managing unit receives the instruction during execution and use of the application from the application execution instructing unit of the terminal the application managing unit performs control during execution and use of the application in accordance with this instruction. The application managing unit also searches the usable application corresponding to the model unique information so as to present the application to the terminal . The application managing unit executes the application when the authentication information is acquired from the application execution instructing unit of the terminal .

The API unit instructs the function control mediating unit of the image forming apparatus to perform control corresponding to the model unique information based on the instruction from the application during execution. That is the API unit provides the interface for controlling the respective functions of the image forming apparatus from the application . Specifically the API unit references the acquired model unique information to generate the command for instruction hereinafter referred to as function control instruction to control the functions of the respective units included in the image forming apparatus and transmits the command to the function control mediating unit of the image forming apparatus . As the command of this function control instruction the API unit may generate the command that associates the parameter or similar information when the API of the platform is called with the control method corresponding to the function of the image forming apparatus . The API unit also acquires the result of the control on the function of the image forming apparatus information reference or similar process so as to present the result to the application . At this time the API unit may acquire various files and similar data of the result of the function control from the image forming apparatus so as to present the result to the application .

The model unique information acquiring unit receives the model unique information of the image forming apparatus from the function control mediating unit of the image forming apparatus and saves the model unique information in the storage unit .

The model unique information transmitting unit transmits the model unique information acquired by the model unique information acquiring unit to the server .

The application execution instructing unit issues the instruction in the server during execution and use of the application corresponding to the model unique information transmitted from the model unique information transmitting unit . Accordingly the application execution instructing unit can transmit the information of the instruction input using the input unit by the user to the server using the browser or the dedicated application. The application execution instructing unit can acquire the authentication information necessary for using the application . The application execution instructing unit may receive the screen content of the application via the platform of the server and draw the screen content on the browser so as to display the screen content on the display unit or may transmit and receive various files to from the image forming apparatus and the server . The application execution instructing unit can also transmit the setting of the browser or the dedicated application of the application execution instructing unit and the setting information such as the information of the hardware and the OS of the terminal . The application execution instructing unit transmits the application stored in the recording medium to the server and installs the application on the server .

The model unique information includes the equipment unique ID including the model identification number the serial number the production number the unique number and similar number of the image forming apparatus the information regarding the function usable in the image forming apparatus the memory capacity the equipment setting including the print setting the count of printed sheets the charging information and similar information. The information regarding the function of the model unique information includes information such as the display size of the display unit or the browser the size of the paper sheet that causes scanning and image formation the type which is color or black and white of scanning and image formation and the existence or non existence of optional equipment such as the finisher the FAX transmission reception unit the user authentication unit the camera and a visual line detection device. The model unique information may include various information such as the IP address of the image forming apparatus the e mail address of the administrator the transmission destination and the address.

The authentication information is the information related to the authentication of the application . The authentication information may include the account information of the user including the administrator key information for activating or using the application application identification information such as the identifier of the application and the type of the application and similar information. In the authentication information the account information may include the user ID and the password. The account information may include the credit card number and the authority information. The authentication information can be registered from the terminal the server the operation panel unit of the image forming apparatus or similar device by each user in advance.

The application is a program that is installed on the server and executed on the platform . The application uses the function of the image forming apparatus via the API unit so as to function in cooperation with the image forming apparatus . Accordingly the application ensures various processes that cannot be used by the image forming apparatus alone. A plurality of the applications may be stored in the storage unit of the server . The application may be for example an application for billing company directory management a monitoring camera watermark generation Optical Character Recognition OCR slip management contract management business card management PDF creation account management group management and similar operation.

The respective applications may be selected as executable or non executable corresponding to the model unique information of the image forming apparatus . In this case when there are a plurality of the image forming apparatuses the respective applications may be set to be or not to be in a usable state corresponding to the respective pieces of the model unique information of these image forming apparatuses . In this case it is possible to employ the configuration that causes activation so as to cause a usable state associated with the image forming apparatus based on the authentication information of this image forming apparatus . The application may be installed from the image forming apparatus or other terminal or similar device not illustrated and then stored in the storage unit . Here it is possible to employ the configuration where the different application is installed for each model of the image forming apparatus . The application may include an execution file that operates on the platform and various data including the class information. In this case the execution file of the application may be a binary file of the application including for example an intermediate language file of a Java registered trademark application and a native exe file. The application may additionally include necessary data.

Here the storage unit the storage unit or the storage unit may store various job data specified by the operation panel unit in the image forming apparatus the image data scanned by the document reading unit the image data processed by image processing in the image processing unit the document data transmitted from the terminal various files the data of a thumbnail image and similar information. The storage unit the storage unit or the storage unit may include the region of the document box for each user.

Next a description will be given of the installation of the application by the image forming system X according to the second embodiment of the disclosure with reference to . The application installing process in this embodiment additionally introduces the application from the external recording medium connected to the terminal an external server not illustrated or similar member so as to store the application in the storage unit . In the application installing process according to this embodiment mainly the control unit of the terminal and the control unit in the server execute the programs stored in the storage unit and the storage unit in collaboration with the respective units using the hardware resources. The following describes the detail of the application installing process for each step with reference to the flowchart in .

Firstly the control unit of the terminal performs an application reading transmitting process as the application execution instructing unit . The control unit reads out the installation program of the application from the recording medium connected to the I O unit and execute the application . At this time the control unit may input the authentication information from the input unit . The control unit may cause login or similar operation of the server . The control unit may input the key information of the application written in the label or similar thing of the recording medium as this authentication information . The control unit transmits the read application from the network transmission reception unit via the network to the server at timing T .

Here a description will be given of the process of the server . The control unit of the server performs an application registering process as the application managing unit . The control unit stores the application received by the network transmission reception unit in the storage unit and registers as the usable application . At this time the control unit may relates this application to the terminal or the user so as to limit the usable terminal or the user. The control unit notifies the terminal about the registration result of this application at timing T .

Here a description will be given of the process of the terminal again. The control unit of the terminal performs a registration result displaying process as the application execution instructing unit . The control unit displays the registration result of the application in the display unit as Installation has been completed or similar message. Thus the application installing process is terminated.

Next a description will be given of the terminal model unique information acquiring process by the image forming system X according to the second embodiment of the disclosure with reference to . The terminal model unique information acquiring process in this embodiment is the process that connects to the image forming apparatus from the terminal to acquire the model unique information and once saves the model unique information in the terminal before the application is used. Accordingly the image forming apparatus can be controlled from the terminal via the server . In the terminal model unique information acquiring process according to this embodiment mainly the control unit of the terminal and the control unit of the image forming apparatus execute the programs stored in the storage unit and the storage unit in collaboration with the respective units using the hardware resources. The following describes the detail of the terminal model unique information acquiring process for each step with reference to the flowchart in .

Firstly the control unit of the terminal performs a connection process as the model unique information acquiring unit . The control unit executes the web browser or the dedicated application stored in the storage unit . Subsequently the control unit allows the user to input or select the name the IP address or similar information of the image forming apparatus to connect using the input unit . The control unit attempts to have connection with the selected image forming apparatus at timing T .

Here a description will be given of the process of the image forming apparatus . The control unit of the image forming apparatus performs a user authentication process as the function control mediating unit . The control unit requests the user of the terminal to input the ID or the password and acquires this information via the network . The control unit performs the user authentication by comparing the acquired ID or password with the data of the account setting. The control unit transmits the result of the user authentication to the terminal at timing T .

Here a description will be given of the process of the terminal again. As the model unique information acquiring unit the control unit of the terminal determines whether or not the user authentication succeeds. The control unit receives the result of the user authentication from the image forming apparatus . The control unit makes a determination of Yes when the result indicates success and makes a determination of No when the result indicates failure. In the case of Yes the control unit proceeds the process to step S. In the case of No the control unit terminates the terminal model unique information acquiring process.

When the user authentication succeeds the control unit performs a model unique information transmission instructing process. The control unit instructs the connected image forming apparatus to transmit the model unique information at timing T .

Here a description will be given of the process of the image forming apparatus again. The control unit of the image forming apparatus performs a model unique information transmitting process as the function control mediating unit . The control unit transmits the model unique information stored in the storage unit to the terminal at timing T . At this time the control unit may encrypt the model unique information with a public key or similar key. In this case the secret key that decodes the model unique information is not held by the terminal but held by the server alone.

Here a description will be given of the process of the terminal again. The control unit of the terminal performs a model unique information acquiring process as the model unique information acquiring unit . When the control unit receives the model unique information from the image forming apparatus the control unit temporarily saves the model unique information in the storage unit . Here this saved model unique information may be saved in the storage unit for a predetermined time for example about several days to several months. When a dedicated application is installed on the terminal the model unique information may be saved in the protected area of the storage unit separately from this dedicated application. The model unique information may be acquired each time when the dedicated application is started or at the time of a use application selecting process or an application using process described later. Thus the terminal model unique information acquiring process is terminated.

Next a description will be given of the use application selecting process by the image forming system X according to the second embodiment of the disclosure with reference to and . The use application selecting process in this embodiment transmits the model unique information acquired in the above described terminal model unique information acquiring process to the server and queries about the application usable in the image forming apparatus among the applications installed on the server . The server transmits the list hereinafter referred to as an application list of the applications usable in the image forming apparatus . The terminal displays this application list so as to allow the user to select the application to start. In the use application selecting process according to this embodiment mainly the control unit of the terminal and the control unit of the server execute the programs stored in the storage unit and the storage unit in collaboration with the respective units using the hardware resources. The following describes the detail of the use application selecting process for each step with reference to the flowchart in .

Firstly the control unit performs the model unique information transmitting process as the model unique information transmitting unit . The control unit acquires the instruction to start the selection of the application to use from the user using the GUI of the browser or the dedicated application. In this case the control unit reads the model unique information which is acquired from the connected image forming apparatus from the storage unit and transmits this model unique information and the command for requesting the transmission of the application list to the server at timing T . At this time the control unit may encrypt the model unique information with a public key or similar key. The control unit may transmit the authentication information to the server .

Here a description will be given of the process of the server . The control unit of the server performs a model unique information receiving process as the model unique information receiving unit . The control unit receives the model unique information and saves the model unique information in the storage unit . At this time the control unit may check whether the model unique information is not unauthorized by decoding using a secret key stored in the storage unit . Here the control unit receives the command for requesting the acquisition of the application list so as to notify the application managing unit .

Subsequently the control unit performs an application searching process as the application managing unit . The control unit references the model unique information to search the application from the storage unit and searches the application corresponding to this model unique information so as to generate the application list. At this time for each searched application the control unit also adds the information indicating whether or not the application has already been associated with the terminal to the application list.

Subsequently the control unit performs an application list transmitting process as the application managing unit . The control unit transmits the generated application list to the image forming apparatus at timing T .

Here a description will be given of the process of the terminal again. The control unit of the terminal performs an application list presenting process as the application execution instructing unit . The control unit acquires the application list of the searched applications from the server and display the application list on the display unit using the browser the dedicated application or similar method. In a screen example illustrates an example of the displayed application list. In the display field the user name the model the names of the applications usable in the image forming apparatus and similar information are displayed in a list format. A button is a button for issuing an instruction to terminate the display of this application list.

Subsequently the control unit performs an application selecting process as the application execution instructing unit . The control unit uses the GUI to allow the user to select the application that is started to be used from the list of the name or similar information of the usable applications using the input unit . The control unit transmits the information of the selected application to the server at timing T .

Here a description will be given of the process of the server again. The control unit of the server performs an application execution starting process as the application managing unit . When the control unit receives the information of the selected application from the image forming apparatus the control unit starts the application . As the API unit the control unit may connect to the function control mediating unit of the image forming apparatus corresponding to the model unique information . At this time the control unit may use the authentication information received from the terminal for connection to the image forming apparatus . Thus the application installing process according to the second embodiment of the disclosure is terminated.

Next a description will be given of the application using process by the image forming system X according to the second embodiment of the disclosure with reference to and . The application using process in this embodiment uses the application whose execution is instructed by the terminal and whose execution is started by the server based on the instruction of the user. Here various instructions hereinafter referred to as application use instruction of the user when the application is used are transmitted to the server from the terminal . The information of the instruction hereinafter referred to as GUI instruction of drawing and inputting for the browser or the dedicated application of the terminal is transmitted from the server . The command for the function control instruction is also transmitted to the image forming apparatus from the server . In the application using process according to this embodiment mainly the control unit of the image forming apparatus the control unit of the server and the control unit of the terminal execute the programs stored in the storage unit the storage unit and the storage unit in collaboration with the respective units using the hardware resources. The following describes the detail of the application using process for each step with reference to the flowchart in .

Firstly the control unit of the terminal performs an application use instruction acquiring process as the application execution instructing unit . The control unit acquires the application use instruction of the user from the input unit using the GUI of the browser or the dedicated application during execution of the application in the server .

Subsequently the control unit performs an application use instruction transmitting process as the application execution instructing unit . The control unit transmits the acquired application use instruction from the network transmission reception unit to the server at timing T .

Here a description will be given of the process of the server . The control unit of the server performs the application execution process as the application managing unit . When the control unit receives the application use instruction the control unit performs various controls on the application during execution in accordance with the content of this instruction. The control unit also reads the model unique information corresponding to this application and sets this information to a referable state. The executed application may exchange the information with the image forming apparatus via the platform .

Subsequently the control unit determines whether or not there is a GUI instruction as the application managing unit . When the application is executed and there is a GUI instruction for displaying inputting and similar operation through a GUI for the service of the platform from the application the control unit makes a determination of Yes. The control unit otherwise makes a determination of No. In the case of Yes the control unit proceeds the process to step S. In the case of No the control unit proceeds the process to step S

When there is a GUI instruction the control unit performs a GUI instruction transmitting process as the application managing unit . The control unit generates the information of the GUI instruction and transmits this information to the terminal at timing T . This information of the GUI instruction may include a file such as an HTML file and an XML file that can be displayed by the browser or the dedicated application of the terminal a command for socket communication an image file or a sound file that is displayed and played the display unit of the terminal and similar information. At this time the control unit may determine the display size or similar information of the display unit or the browser based on the acquired model unique information and then perform adjustment so as to cause the information of the GUI instruction in an appropriate layout.

Here a description will be given of the process of the terminal again. The control unit performs the application GUI drawing process as the application execution instructing unit . When the control unit receives the GUI instruction the control unit performs drawing on the display unit corresponding to the information of the GUI instruction using the browser or the dedicated application. The control unit can request the instruction of inputting of the user from the input unit using the GUI.

In the screen example illustrates the example of the GUI display displayed on the display unit when the application for billing is executed in the server . The display field is a field that receives inputs of the product name and the amount of money and displays a preview. The product name and the amount of money input by the user are transmitted to the server as the application use instruction that includes the document data of the bill and the server calculates the sum. When the control unit receives this calculation result as the GUI instruction the control unit reflects the calculation result to the display field . The display field is a field that indicates the state of the image forming apparatus received as the GUI instruction. The connection state between the server and the image forming apparatus may be displayed here. The button is a button for the application use instruction to instruct the image forming apparatus to perform a print job. When this button is clicked the control unit transmits the document data of the bill from the terminal or the server to the image forming apparatus so as to cause the image forming apparatus to perform a print job. The button is a button for the application use instruction to instruct storage of the document data of the bill. When this button is clicked the control unit may store this document data in the storage unit or the storage unit in the server . The control unit may transmit this document data to the image forming apparatus and store the document data in the document box of the storage unit . A button is a button that instructs termination of this application for billing. When this button is clicked the control unit transmits the instruction hereinafter referred to as application termination instruction for termination of the application to the server .

Here a description will be given of the process of the server again. As the API unit the control unit of the server determines whether or not there is a function control instruction. When the function control instruction of for example calling the API of the platform that controls the function of the image forming apparatus from this application is called during execution of the application the control unit makes a determination of Yes. In the example of the control unit makes a determination of Yes when the instruction of a print job is issued with the button or similar case. The control unit otherwise makes a determination of No. In the case of Yes the control unit proceeds the process to step S. In the case of No the control unit proceeds the process to step S

When there is a function control instruction the control unit performs a function control instruction transmitting process as the API unit . The control unit references the model unique information so as to generate the command for the function control instruction corresponding to the function of the image forming apparatus . The control unit transmits this command for the function control instruction to the image forming apparatus at timing T . In the example of the control unit includes the instruction for a print job of the document data of the bill in the command for the function control instruction and transmits this command.

Here a description will be given of the process of the image forming apparatus . The control unit of the image forming apparatus performs an each function controlling process as the function control mediating unit . When the command for the function control instruction is received the control unit analyzes the command for the function control instruction and then performs control corresponding to the functions of the respective units of the image forming apparatus . The control unit can directly control the respective units or acquire the states of the respective units. The control unit can perform the process for transmitting and receiving various files between the image forming apparatus the server and the terminal .

In the above described example of when the button or the button is clicked the control unit can receive the document data of the bill transmitted from the terminal or the server to print the document data as an output from the image forming unit or save the document data in the document box of the storage unit .

Subsequently the control unit performs a function control result transmitting process as the function control mediating unit . The control unit acquires the result of the function control and transmits the result to the server at timing T . This result of the function control may be presented to the application via the platform after being received at the server .

Here a description will be given of the process of the terminal again. As the application execution instructing unit the control unit determines whether or not there is an application termination instruction. When the control unit acquires the instruction to terminate the application from the user using the GUI the control unit makes a determination of Yes. In the example of when the button of Terminate the button of x in the upper right or similar button is clicked the control unit makes a determination of Yes. The control unit otherwise makes a determination of No. In the case of Yes the control unit proceeds the process to step S. In the case of No the control unit returns the process to step Sand waits for the instruction from the user.

When the application termination instruction is acquired the control unit performs an application termination instruction transmitting process as the application execution instructing unit . The control unit transmits the command for the application termination instruction to the server at timing T . The control unit may include the application identification information in this command for the application termination instruction.

Here a description will be given of the process of the control unit again. As the application managing unit the control unit determines whether or not there is an application termination instruction. When the control unit receives the application termination instruction from the terminal when the execution of the application is completed or similar case the control unit makes a determination of Yes. Also when the application is terminated as the result of the function control the control unit makes a determination of Yes. The control unit otherwise makes a determination of No. In the case of Yes the control unit proceeds the process to step S. In the case of No the control unit returns the process to step Sand continues the execution of the application.

When there is an application termination instruction the control unit performs an application terminating process as the application managing unit . When the control unit receives the command for the application termination instruction from the terminal the control unit terminates the execution of the corresponding application and becomes a standby state. Thus the application using process according to the second embodiment of the disclosure is terminated.

With the configuration as described above the following effects can be obtained. The image forming system X of the disclosure includes the terminal the server which is connectable to the terminal and the image forming apparatus which is controlled from the server . The terminal includes the model unique information acquiring unit which acquires the model unique information of the image forming apparatus the model unique information transmitting unit which transmits the model unique information acquired by the model unique information acquiring unit to the server and the application execution instructing unit which issues an instruction in the server during execution and use of the application corresponding to the model unique information transmitted by the model unique information transmitting unit . The image forming apparatus includes the function control mediating unit which transmits the model unique information to the terminal or the server and controls the functions of the respective units based on the instruction when the application corresponding to the model unique information transmitted by the server is executed in the server . The server includes the model unique information receiving unit which receives the model unique information transmitted by the model unique information transmitting unit of the terminal or the function control mediating unit of the image forming apparatus the application managing unit which manages and executes the application corresponding to the model unique information acquired by the model unique information receiving unit and the API unit which instructs the function control mediating unit of the image forming apparatus to perform control corresponding to the model unique information based on the instruction of the control on the function of the image forming apparatus from the application executed by the application managing unit . With this configuration in the image forming system X even the image forming apparatus without a large display unit in the operation panel unit can use the application via the terminal such as a tablet. It is possible to issue an instruction to the application from the terminal which includes the display unit with a higher resolution and display performance compared with the operation panel unit of the image forming apparatus . This improves the convenience for the user. The application and the execution platform are managed on the server . Accordingly the image forming system X can use the application even when the capabilities of the control unit and the storage unit in the image forming apparatus are similar to that of the equipment where the application is not installed. That is it is possible to provide the image forming apparatus that can use the application at a low price. Additionally when the control operation capability of the control unit and the storage capacity of the storage unit in the image forming apparatus are limited the image forming system X need not perform a unique process of the application . This improves the performance of the image forming system X. The image forming system X need not introduce the application into the image forming apparatus . This reduces the labor and cost for management of setup or similar process. The image forming system X can select the corresponding application from the plurality of the applications based on the model unique information . This eliminates the need to save the application for each model on the server thus saving the storage area for the application in the storage unit of the server . The image forming system X executes the application on the server . This reduces the risk of hacking of the image forming apparatus that is not sufficiently managed or similar risk thus reducing the security risk.

The application managing unit of the server according to the second embodiment of the disclosure searches the application corresponding to the model unique information and presents the application to the terminal and acquires the authentication information from terminal so as to set the presented application to the usable state. With this configuration it is possible to transmit the model unique information of the image forming apparatus to the server so as to present the appropriate application to the user. Accordingly the user need not select the application usable in the image forming apparatus by oneself. This reduces the labor and cost for management. The user also need not find out the setting information of the image forming apparatus . This improves the usability of the user. The user also need not perform setting. This reduces the security risk. The service is provided not as a simple client server configuration but as what is called a cloud service. It is possible to collectively manage the license of the application and similar information thus reducing the management cost of the provider of the application . When the user attempts to install the unauthorized application which is pirated modified or similar program it is possible to find the unauthorized program by introducing a security program into the server . This can prevent the distribution or the use of the unauthorized application . In the image forming system X of this embodiment the image forming apparatus does not store the main body of the application and the operating area of the platform and the application is set to the area on the server . This eliminates the need to extend the storage area of the storage unit in the image forming apparatus thus reducing the cost increase and reducing the degradation in performance.

Here in the above described embodiment the application managing unit of the server determines the display size or similar parameter of the display unit or the browser of the terminal . In contrast the API unit of the server may also generate the command for the function control instruction where the display size or similar parameter of the display unit or the browser is determined when generating the command for the function control instruction transmitting process. With this configuration it is possible to flexibly perform the control on the respective units thus reducing the cost.

The application may be associated not for each image forming apparatus but for each user. Accordingly the different application can be used for each user who logs in the image forming apparatus . The application may include general applications for achieving desired functions by calling the respective functions of the image forming apparatus and a management application for controlling these general applications . The application may include the control program and the data corresponding to the image forming apparatus the server and or the terminal for using the functions of the image forming apparatus . With this configuration it is possible to flexibly control the image forming apparatus using the application and enhancing the security.

In the above described embodiment the application is installed on the server from the terminal . However it is possible to install the application on the server from the recording medium connected to the image forming apparatus . With this configuration it is possible to transmit the model unique information when the application is installed from the image forming apparatus so as to install the application corresponding only to the image forming apparatus thus improving the convenience for the user and reducing the management cost or similar cost.

It is possible to employ the configuration that stores the dedicated application for instructing the application of the terminal in the storage unit of the server or the storage unit of the image forming apparatus to install this application on the terminal . With this configuration it is possible to first prepare the dedicated application corresponding only to the image forming apparatus or the terminal thus improving the convenience for the user and reducing the management cost or similar cost.

It is possible to employ the configuration where the administrator or similar person first installs the applications corresponding to the respective models from the management terminal not illustrated for the server . In this case it is also possible to employ the configuration that select the group of the applications already installed on the server and inputs the key information or similar information so as to set activate the applications to usable states from the terminal . With this configuration the ordinary user need not install the application . This improves the convenience for the user and reduces the management cost or similar cost. The administrator of the server can simply update the application . The administrator of the server may change the information of the application on the association with the image forming apparatus or similar information or may change the information on the association between the model unique information and the application or similar information. In this case this application may be set to be usable only from the user the image forming apparatus or the terminal that has performed the installation. With this configuration it is possible to flexibly realize function extension and ensure control on the server thus reducing the management cost.

The storage unit of the image forming apparatus the storage unit of the server and or the storage unit of the terminal can store the applications different from the application based on the API of the platform . For example the storage unit the storage unit and or the storage unit may store a web application or similar program hereinafter referred to as external application other than the application and the data of the user or similar data. The external application may be called by the instruction of the user using the input unit of the terminal or the operation panel unit of the image forming apparatus to be read into the image forming apparatus and executed or executed on the server or display the data of the user on the display unit of the terminal or the operation panel unit of the image forming apparatus . With this configuration it is possible to flexibly selectively use the application of the platform and the external application thus improving the usability of the user.

The disclosure is also applicable to various information processors other than the image forming apparatus. That is a possible configuration employs a network scanner a server to which a scanner is additionally connected via USB or similar interface and similar device. The disclosure is also applicable to a PC as an information processor on which an application is installable a smart phone a mobile phone an office device an industrial device and similar device.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

