---

title: Efficient operations of components in a wireless communications device
abstract: Various embodiments comprise apparatuses and methods including a communications subsystem having an interface module and a protocol module with the communications subsystem being configured to be coupled to an antenna. An applications subsystem includes a software applications module and an abstraction module. The software applications module is to execute an operating system and user applications; the abstraction module is to provide an interface with the software applications module. A controller interface module is coupled to the abstraction module and the interface module and is to convert signals from the applications subsystem into signals that are executable by the communications subsystem. Additional apparatuses and methods are described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09542242&OS=09542242&RS=09542242
owner: Micron Technology, Inc.
number: 09542242
owner_city: Boise
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151130
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 615 995 filed Sep. 14 2012 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 9 204 487 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 024 956 filed Dec. 29 2004 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 307 377 all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

Various embodiments described herein relate to wireless devices generally and more particularly to systems and methods for improved communications between components in a wireless communications device.

More and more consumers are using wireless devices to remain connected to the world around them. Cell phone users can retrieve movie listings while traveling to the theater. Ubiquitous connectivity without regard to physical location has become a reality. One of the results of this new reality is that consumers demand more functions from their cell phones than ever before. Picture and video phones are two examples of the myriad functionalities being built into today s cell phones. The rapid pace of progress places a demand on the manufacturers to continuously update software to enable diverse functions. Upgrades affect many aspects of that device s software instructions.

In the following detailed description of embodiments of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific preferred embodiments in which the subject matter may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice them and it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and that logical mechanical and electrical changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure. Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to individually and or collectively herein by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present disclosure is defined only by the appended claims.

In an embodiment the base station is any device that is capable of transmitting and receiving wireless signals from at least one wireless client device and providing a connection to a suitable network . In an embodiment the base station comprises a radio frequency RF transmitter and receiver and a network interface. Though reference is made to RF it is to be appreciated that other types of wireless signals may be communicated between the access point and the wireless client device such as infrared signals microwave signals and the like. The access point may be connected to any suitable network such as the internet or a private network.

In a further embodiment the base station may alternatively be called an access point. In another embodiment there may be more than one base station providing a wireless network to any number of wireless client devices and that the suitable network in such a case may be a connection with a further base station which is either connected to a suitable network or further connected to other base stations .

In an embodiment the wireless client device provides a user the ability to wirelessly connect to a suitable network such as the internet or a private network. The wireless client device may include without limitation a cellular telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a laptop computer a desktop computer an internet appliance or any device capable of receiving and or transmitting wireless data signals to another device. Though the transmission between the wireless client device and the base station in is depicted as being bi directional it should be appreciated that the wireless client device may exclusively either just transmit signals to or receive signals from the access point such that the communications between them are essentially uni directional. In an embodiment all wireless client devices use the same type of wireless signal to connect to the access point . In another embodiment the wireless client devices connect to the access point using differing wireless signal types. In a further embodiment the wireless client devices use the most cost effective wireless signal to connect to the access point .

In an embodiment the applications subsystem comprises a software applications module and an abstraction module . In an embodiment the software applications module is capable of running user applications and an operating system. The operating system includes without limitation a full featured operating system FFOS . User applications include without limitation a multi media interface MMI . In an embodiment the abstraction module provides a programming interface to the application software module . In such an example the abstraction module is capable of converting program instructions received from the application software module into instructions executable by the controller interface module . The abstraction module receives network service requests from the software applications module converts the network service requests into data signals configured to carry out the service request and transmits data signals to the controller interface module . Though drawn as separate functional block elements in it is understood that the software applications module and the abstraction module may be contained in a single module.

In an embodiment the communications subsystem comprises an interface module and a protocol software module . In one embodiment the protocol software module is configured to receive signals from the interface module and transmit those signals through the antenna over a communications protocol to a network through a base station as contemplated by . In an alternate embodiment the protocol software module is configured to send signals to another wireless client device. The interface module is configured to receive signals from the controller interface module and execute those signals. Though drawn as separate functional block elements in it is understood that the interface module and the protocol software module may be contained in a single module.

In an embodiment the controller interface module is separately coupled to the applications subsystem and the communications subsystem . The controller interface module is capable of receiving and sending signals to the application subsystem and receiving and sending signals to the communications subsystem . In an embodiment the controller interface module is configured to send and receive more than one signal concurrently. In one embodiment the signals received from the applications subsystem are converted into signals executable by the communications subsystem . In another embodiment the signals received from the communications subsystem are converted into signals executable by the applications subsystem . In such an example the controller interface module provides a common programming interface to the applications subsystem and the communications subsystem . Integration of a separately manufactured applications subsystem and a communications subsystem is made easier as the applications subsystem need only be configured to transmit signals executable by the controller interface module and need not be configured to transmit signals executable by the communications subsystem . This has the advantage of allowing a systems manufacturer to quickly integrate disparate communications subsystems into a manufacturing process without the need to reprogram the applications subsystem . Conversely the use of a an applications subsystem with improved user functionality need not require a reprogrammed communications subsystem as the communications subsystem need only be configured to send signals executable by the controller interface module .

In an embodiment the controller interface module is an application programming interface API the operations of which can be divided into four main functional groupings requests confirmations indications and responses. In an embodiment requests are used by the application subsystem to request services confirmations are used by the communications subsystem to provide results to previous requests indications are used by the communications subsystem to report unsolicited events or information to the application subsystem and responses are used by the application subsystem to respond to earlier indications. In an embodiment for each of these functional groupings the controller interface module defines a set of functional primitives wherein each of the primitives performs a single function or service. Examples of such functions or services include without limitation cellular network registration outgoing call initiation delivery of an incoming Short Message Service SMS messages setting up a packet switched data connection etc. In an embodiment functional primitives are divided into three categories core primitives that are required in every implementation of the controller interface module extended primitives that are optionally implemented and custom primitives that are specific to a particular controller interface module .

In an embodiment the controller interface module has one or more independent service groups accessible by one or more individual service clients of the applications subsystem. Service groups provide services including without limitation call control mobility management Subscriber Identity Module SIM Interface supplementary services messaging packet switched network services circuit switched packet switched data operations send receive phonebook access device related services etc. In one embodiment more than one service client accesses a single service group. In another embodiment a single service client accesses a single service group. In a further embodiment a single service client accesses multiple service groups. In an embodiment the individual service clients are configured to send a registration request for a particular service group to the controller interface module . In such an example the service client will receive a handle which can be used for requesting a set of functions from the service group. In a further embodiment the service client is configured to request access to services by providing the received handle and a identifier that is unique to the service group. In an embodiment the controller interface module is configured to maintain a mapping between the handles and the service groups.

In an embodiment service groups may be divided into three categories core extended and custom. Core service groups are those service groups that are required by the controller interface module . Extended service groups are optional in the controller interface module . Custom service groups are specific to a particular implementation of the controller interface module . In an embodiment the controller interface module is configured to provide a common abstraction layer between an applications subsystem and a communications subsystem and implementation of service groups outside of the core service groups may result in some incompatibilities between application subsystems and communication subsystems . Core service groups may include without limitation Call Control related group service group Mobility Management related service group and Device related service group. Extended service groups may include without limitation Supplementary Services related service group Phonebook related service group SIM Access related service group Message Service related service group Packet Switched related service group High Speed CSD related service group Data related service group Debug related service group AT Parser Interface service group Position Location and Operations Administration and Maintenance OA M related service group. In a further embodiment the controller interface module is configured to respond to a query by either the applications subsystem or the communications subsystem requesting which extended service groups are supported by the controller interface module .

Though depicted and described as separate and distinct functional elements in it is to be understood that all elements may be combined into a single element without departing from the scope of the embodiments described herein.

In an embodiment of the wireless client device the communications subsystem is operably coupled to the antenna . The antenna may include one or more of a patch omni directional beam monopole dipole and rhombic antenna among others.

In an embodiment the CCI Abstraction Layer Module is communicatively and separately coupled to the PS Radio Abstraction Layer Module and the PS Interface Layer Module . The CCI Abstraction Layer Module is configured to receive signals from the PS Radio Abstraction Layer Module of the applications subsystem and convert the signals into signals executable by the PS Interface Layer Module of the communications subsystem . In an embodiment the CCI Abstraction Layer is embodied in the communications subsystem . As discussed above with respect to the controller interface module of which the CCI Abstraction Layer Module is one example implementation the CCI Abstraction Layer Module may be separate from the communications subsystem .

In an embodiment the CCI Abstraction Layer Module provides compatibility across multiple application subsystems and communication subsystems. The CCI Abstraction Layer Module is independent of the runtime environment and is configured to interoperate with multiple disparate PS Interface Layer Modules . In an embodiment the CCI Abstraction Layer Module is independent of the application development environment as well as the wireless protocol stack implementation.

Though the term translated or translation is used this is not meant to be limiting in any way. Translated in the context of the present application is meant to encompass any operation of receiving one set of program instructions from one module and manipulating those instructions in some manner to make those instructions executable by some other software module. In the present discussion this allows for an abstraction of software modules so that the application subsystem need only be programmed to interact with the controller interface module and the communications subsystem need only be programmed to interact with the controller interface module . In the absence of a controller interface module as described herein the application subsystem would need to be programmed for every communications subsystem that could be coupled to it. This increases manufacturing and programming complexity.

In an embodiment at block a service indication is translated by the controller interface module into a plurality of service indications at least one of which is in a form executable by the applications subsystem . Such operations may be required for example if the received service indication is one of network unavailability. Multiple service groups may require notification of such a condition and translating the single service indication into a plurality of service indications for each service client would be very advantageous.

In this example the request will generate some reply from the communications network. This may be in the form of web content or a completed phone connection. The response is received by the antenna which is then sent as a signal to the Protocol Software Module . The Protocol Software Module sends a signal containing the response to the PS Interface Layer Module which then formats a service confirmation and sends the service confirmation to the CCI Abstraction Layer Module . The CCI Abstraction Layer Module translates the service confirmation into a form executable by the applications subsystem and more particularly the PS Radio Abstraction Layer Module of the Applications Subsystem . The CCI Abstraction Layer Module sends the translated service confirmation to the PS Radio Abstraction Layer which then executes the service confirmation and sends a signal to the FFOS MMI Applications Module . In an embodiment this causes the FFOS MMI Applications Module to perform operations responsive to the service confirmation such as displaying the web content.

Though depicted as being initiated by the Applications Subsystem there may be instances where a network communication institutes some operations on the Applications Subsystem . An example of such operation is an incoming phone call. Such an operation would cause dataflow to be the reverse of that depicted in and described above. In an embodiment operations in the reverse of that depicted in proceed similarly to those described above and the depiction of only the initiation of network resources by the applications subsystem is not meant to be limiting in any manner.

The accompanying drawings that form a part hereof show by way of illustration and not of limitation specific embodiments in which the subject matter may be practiced. The embodiments illustrated are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed herein. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure.

Thus although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any arrangement calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all adaptations or variations of various embodiments of the invention. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b requiring an abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. Additionally in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments of the invention require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate preferred embodiment. In the appended claims the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein respectively. Moreover the terms first second and third etc. are used merely as labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects.

