---

title: Personal security alert and monitoring apparatus
abstract: A personal monitoring apparatus and methods of using the personal monitoring apparatus for contacting one or more third parties through wireless signals and/or a communication network in the event of an emergency. The personal apparatus comprises a data storage device configured to store information selected from the group consisting of user identification information, GPS location information, health information, insurance information, third party contact information and environmental information, a wireless transmitter connected to the data storage device, configured to transmit the information of the data storage device to a third party and an input device configured to simultaneously or near simultaneously activate the wireless transmitter, transmit the stored information of the data storage device and open a line of communication with the third party.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09473920&OS=09473920&RS=09473920
owner: POM-CO PARTNERS, INC.
number: 09473920
owner_city: Clifton Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150721
---
This application claims the priority and benefit of U.S. Patent Application No. 62 027 403 entitled PERSONAL SECURITY ALERT AND MONITORING DEVICE filed on Jul. 22 2014 the content of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The following relates generally to an apparatus and method for providing personal security and monitoring services and more specifically to embodiments of a monitoring apparatus equipped to transmit location information personal information health information and request assistance from third parties.

Modern technology has brought us the capability to send and receive information wirelessly over short and long distances. As technology has progressed communication devices have become faster more complicated store more information and are able to include a vast number of features that allow individuals to communicate in many number of ways. Computing devices such as personal computers cellular phones smart phones laptops and tablets have become ubiquitous amongst the general population and can be vital in situations where assistance may be needed. These computing devices however have been designed with features that are almost exclusively used during non emergency situations. Computing devices such as smart phones and tablets can suffer drawbacks that may make them inaccessible when an emergency arises. For instance cellular phones and tablets may be out of reach or have limited battery remaining when an emergency arises. These computing devices may also have complex interfaces that may make it difficult for individuals to find and access the appropriate features during a stressful emergency situation. Often individuals who are untrained or unprepared for an emergency situation that arises may suffer from an inability to properly communicate important details to emergency responders. Thus a need exists for a device that is easy to use accessible and capable of providing the necessary information to emergency responders and third parties even under the most stressful dangerous and intimidating situations.

A first aspect of this disclosure relates generally to a personal monitoring apparatus comprising a data storage device configured to store information selected from the group consisting of user identification information GPS location information health information insurance information third party contact information and environmental information a wireless transmitter connected to the data storage device configured to transmit the information of the data storage device to a third party and an input device configured to simultaneously or near simultaneously activate the wireless transmitter transmit the stored information of the data storage device and open a line of communication with the third party.

A second aspect of this disclosure relates generally to a method for using a personal monitoring apparatus comprising the steps of storing information on a data storage device of the personal monitoring apparatus said information including user identification information GPS location information health information insurance information text video voice third party contact information or environmental information activating the personal monitoring apparatus via an input device transmitting via a wireless transmitter the information stored on the data storage device to a third party and simultaneously or near simultaneously with the transmitting opening a line of communication between the personal monitoring apparatus and the third party.

A detailed description of the hereinafter described embodiments of the disclosed apparatus and method are presented herein by way of exemplification and not limitation with reference to the Figures. Although certain embodiments are shown and described in detail it should be understood that various changes and modifications may be made without departing from the scope of the appended claims. The scope of the present disclosure will in no way be limited to the number of constituting components the materials thereof the shapes thereof the relative arrangement thereof etc. and are disclosed simply as an example of embodiments of the present disclosure. The figures in some cases show overlapping components in assembly. The overlap is illustrative of an interference fit in which the components flex or otherwise accommodate the assembly of the components.

As a preface to the detailed description it should be noted that as used in this specification and the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.

Referring to which depicts an embodiment of a personal monitoring apparatus . The personal monitoring apparatus may be any type of data storage device which may record store transmit or communicate information and data to another device system network and third parties including but not limited to computing devices computing systems computer networks cloud networks emergency networks government network cellular networks friends family relatives emergency authorities and or a second personal monitoring apparatus .

Any type of information known to those in the art can be stored written or saved to the data storage of the monitoring apparatus . The data storage device of the apparatus may be any type of computer readable storage medium. Types of data storage devices may include any electronic storage device a magnetic storage device an optical storage device an electromagnetic storage device a semiconductor storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. A non exhaustive list of more specific examples of the computer readable storage medium includes the following a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory NAND flash memory a static random access memory SRAM a memory stick a floppy disk a mechanically encoded device.

The information stored written or saved to the monitoring apparatus may be recorded stored transmitted communicated to or accessed by a person device system server network or cloud network either real or virtual. The information provided by apparatus to the recipient person device system or network and may include information describing the owner or current user of the personal monitoring apparatus . This information may include a physical description location information a picture of the owner or current user of the apparatus address information one or more telephone numbers student ID number insurance information third party contact information including contact information about friends family or co workers and a log file providing information regarding previous information exchanges between the apparatus and other recipients. The information provided stored or transmitted by the device may include any general information about the user s environment and the nature or reasons for the transmission of the information to the third party including descriptions of the surrounding environment hazardous conditions and details that may be pertinent for the recipient to determine the appropriate response such as providing emergency assistance.

Embodiments of apparatus may include a data storage device having a flash based memory storage device such as a Universal Serial Bus USB flash drive form factor . Embodiments of the apparatus may include a subscriber identity module SIM such as a SIM card found in mobile network devices including cellular telephones smartphones tablet computers palm pilots or other devices capable of interfacing with cellular telephone network or other mobile communications networks. The networks may include GSM GPRS CDMA TDMA mobitex EDGE high speed circuit switched data HSCSD SMS Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS W CDMA LTE or Flash OFDM networks. In some embodiments the SIM card or other SIM device may be integrated with the data storage device described above. In an embodiment of an apparatus containing a SIM card the SIM card may further store subscriber identification information or related keys which allow the apparatus to access and or be identified on a mobile communications network.

The SIM card may be controlled by a logic board housed within the personal apparatus . The apparatus may be configured to utilize the SIM card and the SIM card s identifying information to send and receive mobile communications on a mobile communications network. Embodiment of the monitoring apparatus may be able to send and receive communications between the servers of communications networks and a destination device. The personal monitoring apparatus may communicate with any known communications network in which the apparatus may be configured to communicate with including those described throughout this application such as Global System for Mobile Communications GSM General Packet Radio Service GPSR and Short Message Service SMS .

The personal monitoring apparatus may also include in some embodiments a Global Positioning system GPS having a GPS processor . The apparatus s GPS processor may be capable of transmitting receiving and storing information regarding geographical location of the apparatus via the GPS satellites orbiting above the Earth. The information from the GPS may be stored in the onboard memory of the GPS processor or it may be saved to data storage device of the apparatus . In an alternative embodiment the apparatus may include an Assisted GPS AGPS . The AGPS may download orbital information from the GPS satellites and store it in a database on the data storage device of the apparatus using a mobile communications network as GSM CDMA WCDMA LTE or even using a radio based network such as Wi Fi to send and receive the positioning data in less time than a GPS alone.

Embodiments of the personal monitoring device may also be equipped with a wireless transmitting device. The transmitting device may be used to send and receive signals between one or more personal monitoring devices one or more computing devices computing networks cloud networks servers receivers transceivers or other devices capable of receiving information and data using wireless transmissions and signals. Embodiments of the wireless transmitting device may include transmitters receivers or transceivers including those propagating a wireless signal including but not limited to Bluetooth Wi Fi Bluetooth low energy BLE RFID CDMA GSM infrared IR broadcast radio microwave transmission satellite communications or any other known type of wireless signal capable of transmitting a signal.

Referring still to embodiments of apparatus may further include a power source. The power source may be wireless or mobile in nature such as a battery. The power source may be rechargeable or non rechargeable. For example a battery powered source may be a lithium battery alkaline battery nickel cadmium battery nickel metal hydride NiMH zinc carbon batteries or any other battery type known to those skilled in the art. In other embodiments the form factor of the security apparatus may include a small solar panel powering the circuit or an internal battery charged by light. The security apparatus may not require large amounts of energy but rather may be placed into a low power state while it is being not being used. The device may simply recharged using light to increase the internal power supply similar to a light powered watch containing a photovoltaic module or solar panel.

The apparatus may also be powered using other methods. For example the apparatus may be equipped with a port capable of receiving a power supply external to the apparatus such as a power cable sized to fit within the port and supply power thereto. The external power supply once connected to the apparatus via the cable may begin recharging the internal power source of the apparatus. In the exemplary embodiment the apparatus may be a USB form factor having a USB interface plug . The USB plug may draw power from a device or outlet equipped with port capable of mating with the USB plug. This may include any device containing a USB slot or port receiving power. Examples may include computer electronic hardware such as DVD and Bluray players television automobiles or USB power adapters. Once connected to the USB slot or port the apparatus may begin recharge its internal power source.

In some embodiments the apparatus may perform a plurality of functions while recharging. The apparatus may replenish its internal power supply and or download upload transmit send receive information and save it to the data storage of the apparatus. In some embodiments while being plugged in and recharged the apparatus may perform a firmware update or software update. For example after the USB plug is inserted into a computing device or network accessible device the apparatus via the USB plug may upload information stored in the data storage of the apparatus to the computing device or network. Conversely the apparatus may also receive information and download update to the hardware s firmware or software storing it within the data storage of the apparatus . Such stored information may include GPS information updated firmware API instructions software updates maps personal identification information text video audio or any other files. Examples of information that may be stored and later transmitted by the apparatus may include identifying images of the user name of the user address telephone numbers student identification number social security number health insurance id number lists of one or more personal physicians and their contact information preferred hospitals known allergies and conditions names and locations of parents spouse significant other or additional third parties that may be contacted in the event of an emergency.

Referring to some embodiments of the apparatus may contain a power source indicator . The power source indicator may be a light source such as a light emitting diode LED . The power source indicator performs an action to signal to the user a status or condition. For example the indicator may light up flash or change colors to indicate the status of the power source. The power indicator may identify the apparatus as being fully charged charging or low on energy. The indicator may also signal to the user based on the action of the indicator that the apparatus is reading writing downloading uploading transmitting or receiving data or information. The indicator may also inform a user of the apparatus that the apparatus is updating the apparatus s firmware or software. In some embodiments the Apparatus may also include a small display screen to indicate the amount of remaining power left in the power source or an action being performed by the apparatus.

Embodiments of the apparatus may include additional structural features such as a key ring or chain port for allowing the apparatus to be attached to another object. For example the apparatus may be placed on a key ring an article of clothing or any other item that is normally carried on the individual. This may allow the apparatus to be readily accessible or nearby allowing for quick activation in the event of an emergency or other situation where the use of the apparatus may be needed.

Other features of embodiments of the apparatus may include an instructional portion alerting a non owner of a found apparatus how to best communicate with the owner regarding the discovery of the lost item. The instructional portion may be a sticker etching LCD LED or OLED screen cathode ray tube CRT Nixie tube display incandescent film display gas discharge display plasma display or any other means affixed to the apparatus for communicating with an individual who has found the apparatus instructions for returning it to the proper owner. An instructional portion may provide the owner s contact information such as an email address telephone number or physical address wherein they can be contacted. An apparatus may also include an identifying key or code for the apparatus imprinted therein. This specific key code may operate in a manner such as a bar code serial number or QR code. This key code may be an identifying mark registered with the US post office Federal Express UPS or any other common shipping carrier. The instructional portion may also simply instruct a finder to place the apparatus in the nearest mailbox. The key code may provide instructions to the shipping carrier regarding the proper address for delivery ensuring that the owner receives the missing apparatus and any other attached object thereto.

In some embodiments of the apparatus the apparatus may be configured to alert emergency services such as fire departments ambulances police campus security poison control or other third parties registered and stored in the data storage memory of the apparatus . Other third parties may include a designated contact person friends family relative co worker physician or any other individual who may associate or know the user of the apparatus. The information stored within the data storage of the device may be organized in any readily accessible manner known in the art including as database dataset information repository knowledge base data mart or data warehouse. The information being written and placed in the data storage may be provided to the apparatus from many different data sources. The Apparatus may equipped with software software modules programs applications firmware or code that instructs the apparatus how to organize the data stored in the data storage of the apparatus. The apparatus may automatically organize this information into the more readily accessible format or a computing device loaded with a program software software module or application may organize the information. This organizational step performed by a computing device may be performed remotely through a network or transmitting device such as those described above or the organization may occur when the apparatus is plugged directly into a mating port of the computing device such as a USB port.

The apparatus may be capable of storing a plurality of third parties contacts in the data storage memory of the apparatus . In some embodiments the user may be able to specifically select or designate which type of assistance may be needed and who to contact under the specific current conditions occurring at the time assistance is needed. A user of the apparatus may select to appropriate third party contact using an onboard input device such as a keypad keyboard scroll wheel buttons switches dials or one or more sensors. In other embodiments the apparatus may be pre programmed for contacting specific individuals based on the use of the apparatus. The apparatus may be programmed to dial a specific third party based on the button pressed the number of times a button is pressed a numerical identifier associated with the third party. For example holding down a button for 3 seconds may contact the police whereas three successive presses of a button within a designated time frame may contact the fire department. The input device when activated may be able to simultaneously or nearly simultaneously transmit via the wireless transmitter a request for assistance information stored in the data storage device and or open a direct line of communication with the recipient of the request for assistance including voice video or text based communication. In some embodiments the activation of the input device may be performed using a single input into the input device for example a single press of a button a holding a single button for a specified period of time or performing any other single action with the input device.

The third party contacted by the apparatus may vary depending on the nature of the assistance required. For example if the person is threatened on a college campus the apparatus may be instructed to contact campus police as the third party. In another instance there may be a fire and thus the apparatus may request that the local fire department dispatch fire personnel to the location at or near the location of the apparatus . In other instances there may be health related issues or emergencies that would necessitate that an ambulance or poison control may be necessary.

In other embodiments the apparatus may include only a general request for assistance to a specified call center or local 911 dispatcher who may subsequently identify the circumstances of the situation and relay the information sent by the apparatus to the appropriate third party. Embodiments of the apparatus may identify the appropriate call center or dispatcher based on the location information or GPS information stored of the apparatus.

In the event of an emergency or an event requiring assistance an individual user may readily request assistance from emergency services or other third parties registered on the apparatus by activating the personal monitoring apparatus. The apparatus may be designed in some embodiments to be simplistic and easy to use so that when a situation arises. An individual may easily request assistance as quickly and effortlessly as possible. In some embodiments the personal monitoring apparatus may engage a sequence of steps requesting assistance through manual activation by the user. For example in the exemplary embodiment of the apparatus the monitoring apparatus may be equipped with a button switch slider or other mechanism controlled by the user which may send a signal to the device to request assistance. Upon activating the button switch slider or other activation mechanism a request for assistance may be broadcasted to a third party wherein said broadcasted request may include information such as GPS location user identifying information environmental information or conditions and further details about the nature of the request and the type of assistance needed.

In alternative embodiments the apparatus may be equipped with one or more sensors . The one or more sensors may be used to automatically track and monitor various user based variables or environmental conditions surrounding the apparatus. For example in some embodiments the sensors may be equipped to monitor and track medical or health related variables of the user such as heart rate blood sugar levels for example if the user is diabetic pulse rate breathing rate body temperature or any other medically measurable variables.

In the event that a monitored variable increases or decreases above a certain level the sudden change in the monitored variable may indicate an event that requires assistance such as emergency medical assistance. For example if heart rate is being monitored by a sensor and the monitored heart rate spikes unexpectedly to a predetermined level such as 200 bpm this may indicate that there may be a blockage or embolism causing the heart to work harder than normal which may ultimately lead to a heart attack. Accordingly in response to the observed symptoms measured by the monitoring apparatus the apparatus may automatically initiate contact with services that may be capable of assisting with the associated medical condition. Such services may include contact an ambulance the user s primary care physician and or a local hospital.

In another example the monitoring device may be monitoring the user s body temperature. The user s body temperature may begin to increase or decrease to a level that may not be considered normal. For instance the body temperature may rise over normal human body temperature of 98.6 F. This may indicate the individual is suffering from a fever or other condition that may require medical attention. The apparatus may be programmed to respond to a spike in body temperature by contacting the user s physician who may have contact information registered and stored in the memory of the apparatus . In another example the body temperature sensor may detect an unsafe drop in body temperature. This may indicative of hypothermia. Accordingly the apparatus may automatically contact a third party to request assistance such as the fire department or an ambulance.

In alternative embodiments a plurality of sensors may be capable of measuring the environment around the user and activating a request for assistance based on the sudden measurable change in the environment surrounding the user. Environmental factors such as ambient temperature acceleration velocity and even a predetermined list of key words or sounds may provide clues regarding the need for emergency assistance In view of these environmental factors key words and sounds the apparatus may activate a request for assistance from a third party. For example embodiments of the sensor may measure the surrounding ambient temperature of the user. In the event of a fire the user may be either unconscious due to smoke inhalation or sleeping and therefore unable to engage the request for fire services by manually pressing the button or switch . The sensor may detect a sudden extreme increase in temperature surrounding the device and automatically alert fire services that a hazardous heat based condition may exist such as a fire. The apparatus may further assist the fire services by providing location information and identifying information about the user so that the user may be found and identified by the fire department quickly.

In another embodiment wherein the monitoring apparatus includes one or more sensors the monitoring apparatus may record and track the velocity or acceleration of the user using a built in accelerometer or an accelerometer in communication with the apparatus. The velocity or acceleration may be indicative of the user s mode of transportation such as being in a vehicle on a bicycle or just walking on foot. However sudden spikes in acceleration or a sudden decrease in velocity beyond the rate of a standard braking system may be indicative of a collision between vehicles or the user being struck by a vehicle. Accordingly in response to a sudden change in acceleration or velocity the apparatus may automatically engage services or assistance to respond to the user s current location or the device may open a dialogue with the user to inquire whether the user is unharmed or in need of assistance.

Referring to the drawings depicts one embodiment and method for utilizing the monitoring apparatus . In the depicted embodiment the monitoring apparatus may be equipped with a SIM card allowing the apparatus to directly access a cellular tower of a cellular network and interface directly with network servers . By accessing the cellular network and the server the apparatus may transmit and receive requests from the apparatus to a third party network enabled computing device. The transmitted request may be submitted to the server in any format the server may understand. For example the requesting device may submit the request via a webs service to a server. Such web services may include HTTP HTTPS SMTP FTP Blocks Extensible Exchange Protocol BEEP Representational State Transfer REST XML messaging protocols such as XML RPC remote procedure call WS Addressing web services addressing simple object access protocol SOAP web services description language WSDL Universal Description Discovery and Integration UDDI or combinations thereof.

In the exemplary embodiment depicted the personal monitoring apparatus may contact a third party network enabled device such as a dispatcher for emergency service by directly requesting the assistance of the third party through the server once the apparatus has achieved a network connection with a cellular network and activates the request an authorized request to the network . The apparatus may be activated for example by the user engaging device such as by a push button or automatically by one or more sensors detecting that assistance may be needed. Upon being activated the apparatus may transmit a cellular or wireless signal to a network server via the cellular network . Information included in the signal may include personal information about the user stored in the apparatus location information obtained from the GPS processor SIM card validation or encryption keys that may allow access to the network and voice or video data from the user which may be describing the current situation and details describing why the assistance may be needed and or any information obtained by the sensors that may be useful to the recipient third party of the request. The communicating network may send the message via any mobile communications network the SIM card may be identifiable on. Communications networks which may be used to communicate may include GSM GPRS and SMS communication networks or any of the other networks described above or known in the art.

The requests made to the server by the device may then further be broadcasted to the third party via a second signal . Upon receiving the request for assistance the third party which may be an operator emergency services dispatcher or general call center recipient may view the information sent by the apparatus. The third party may proceed to open a line of direct communication with the apparatus and communicate with the user directly in an effort to ascertain more information about the current situation. For example in some embodiments of the apparatus the apparatus may be equipped with an onboard microphone on board video camera and or an onboard speaker. This may allow the third party to speak directly with the apparatus s user or view the user s surroundings first hand. In some embodiments the apparatus may record the conversation between the third party and the user. The conversation may be stored in the storage device memory of the apparatus . A third party may also use the apparatus s transmitted location data to find the closest video source such as a CCTV camera that can be accessed in order to identify additional details of the situation relating to the request for assistance. Accordingly the third party may also use the location data of the apparatus to target a response and request that additional assistance be sent to the apparatus s location.

In some embodiments of the apparatus the apparatus may not include each and every feature of the embodiments described. For example in some embodiments the apparatus may not include such features as a GPS processor SIM card a camera a microphone or one or more speakers. Embodiments of the apparatus however may be tethered or connected to a computing device and the apparatus may be able to co opt and utilize the computing device s onboard functions instead of having them directly equipped on the apparatus itself. Examples of a computing device that may be electronically connected to or wirelessly tethered with the apparatus may include but are not limited to cellular phones home computers laptops tablet computers smart phones video game systems smart TVs network enabled devices iPads and portable media devices. The network between the apparatus and the computing device may be established wirelessly. The apparatus may in some embodiments utilize an onboard transmitter or transceiver such as Bluetooth Wi Fi Bluetooth low energy BLE RFID CDMA GSM infrared IR broadcast radio microwave transmission satellite communications or any other known type of wireless signal capable of transmitting a signal to establish a network connection with the computing device . The connection may be established using any network protocol known including Bluetooth protocols fibre channel network protocols open system interconnection protocols OSI routing protocols IPV4 IPV6 real time publish subscribe protocol RTPS secure shell SSH simple mail transfer protocol SMTP hypertext transfer protocol HTTP secure HTTP HTPPS file transfer protocol FTP secure FTP SFTP secure socket layer SSL point to point protocol PPP internet message access protocol IMAP transmission control protocol TCP and internet protocol IP suite TCP IP of TCP IP stack .

Once a network has been established between the personal monitoring apparatus and the computing device the apparatus may co opt and use the hardware or software associated with the computing device to send and receive information in a manner as if the additional hardware or software components of the computing device were built into the apparatus itself. For example the apparatus may take advantage of the personal computing device s onboard GPS processor microphone SIM card camera speakers keyboard or keypad screen touchscreen I O devices storage device memory operating system OS network car Wi Fi antenna CPU processing power and any other features of the computing device known to those in the art.

In some embodiments the computing device may have an application or program loaded into the memory of the computing device that may allow the user to regulate control and determine which features and settings of the computing device may be controlled by the apparatus . The user of the apparatus and the computing device may set permissions for the apparatus allowing one or more designated components of the computing device to be co opted by the apparatus. In some embodiments the application or program may be a standalone program or program module having its own graphical user interface GUI or dashboard. In other embodiments the application or program installed onto the computing device may be an application programming interface API loaded into the memory or storage device of the computing device . The API may contain instructions and programming code directing an existing piece of software or hardware how to interact and respond to communications sent to the device by the apparatus .

In some embodiments apparatus or the computing device wirelessly tethered to the apparatus may be customized with one or more API s of third party products. The API s may contain programming code instructing the apparatus or the computing device how to interact and utilize the features of the third party product. For example currently on the market there are companies that produce various sensor related fitness bands and health peripherals. The apparatus or the computing device may be loaded an API that can integrate the features of the third party peripherals into the apparatus . Using a fitness band as an example companies such as Jawbone and Fitbit have wearable bracelets that monitor various conditions of human health and fitness. The parameters of the fitness band may be used as the sensors in addition to or in lieu of the onboard sensor of the apparatus . The apparatus may integrate and receive data from the third party sensors as if they were onboard sensors integrated into the apparatus. In some embodiments the API may facilitate instructions for sharing data and directing the communication between servers or network devices that communicate with the apparatus and the third party product. The third party product may share information to a host network over a network connection such as through a computing device and or networking software and programs including servers cloud networks and other networked devices either real or virtual. Information generated by the third party product may be communicated to the host network instructed via the API. The information submitted to the host network may subsequently be forwarded to the apparatus or a computing device connected to the apparatus. In some embodiments the exchange of information and data between the hosting network or networked devices may be secured by network requesting login information authentication or credentials before the third party product may access the devices that are part of the host network. A third party device may be granted authentication and credentials for accessing the host network that manages and communicates with apparatus by registering the third party product with the network or by having the user of the device tie the third party product to a new or existing username and password. Once authenticated and logged in to the network the third part product may share gathered data and information collected by the third party product with the host network and the apparatus through the network connection i.e. the server .

Furthermore in some embodiments the apparatus may be able to identify and customize the identification of information or other data sources sent to the third party . The identification of a data source may be presented to a third party using designated icons or markers which provide a source identifier that the third party may recognize. For example the apparatus may identify in the information submitted to the dispatcher that the heart rate figures are obtained from a Polar H6 Heart Rate Sensor versus heart rate figures received from an integrated Fitbit wrist band.

In the exemplary embodiment depicted in a personal monitoring apparatus may be wirelessly tethered to a computing device via a wireless transmitting device establishing a wireless connection using a wireless signal such as a Bluetooth BLE RFID CDMA GSM infrared broadcast radio microwave transmission satellite communications or any other wireless signal capable of establishing a wireless connection between the apparatus and the tethered device . In the event that the apparatus is activated automatically via sensor or manually by the user the apparatus may take advantage of the tethered computing device s onboard SIM card memory GPS or other hardware software programs program modules applications or networked resources or network connections to send a request to a server directing the server to contact a third party . Similar to the previous embodiments depicted in the embodiment of the apparatus shown in may also transmit any of the information previously described above that may be stored in the storage device of the apparatus or the computing device including for example location information personal information voice data and or video data to the third party.

The request sent to server may be transmitted via a network such as a cellular network or other communications network via a signal to the third party . Upon receiving the communication from the computing device which was initiated by the apparatus the third party may open a direct line of communication with either the computing device or the apparatus including voice text or video communication.

The procedure for sending communications back and forth between the third party apparatus and or tethered computing device may vary depending on the components equipped on the apparatus and the computing device. For example if the apparatus has an onboard microphone and speakers the apparatus may act as a pseudo headset for the computing device allowing the user to speak into apparatus and receive auditory communications of the third party without having to use the computing device directly. This embodiment may be advantageous because it may allow for sending communications between the apparatus and the third party while still being able to keep the computing device closed or in the pocket of the user. As the user speaks into microphone and listens to the speakers of the apparatus the computing device in the user s pocket is able to receive the information from the apparatus and transmit the information to the third party . However in another example wherein the apparatus lacks a video camera and the third party attempts to view video of the surroundings or user the user may have to directly engage the tethered computing device s onboard camera to allow the third party to receive a video feed.

In some instances it may not be possible for the user of an apparatus to send a signal to a third party with the user s own apparatus or apparatus tethered to a computing device . However a situation may arise in circumstances where the user s apparatus and or tethered computing device is unable to connect to a communications network without engaging additional hardware or increasing the range of the apparatus or tethered computing device in order to locate the communications network. Examples where an apparatus may be unable to contact a third party without additional hardware or components may occur when a SIM enabled apparatus is out of range of a communication network the apparatus is unable to tether to a computing device e.g. device does not have any more power is out of range or lacks permissions or software to communicate with the apparatus or the tethered computing device is outside of a network. Under such circumstances where the apparatus us unable to contact the third party on its own or via a tethered computing device the apparatus may search for a second personal security and monitoring apparatus . Embodiments of the first and second apparatus may communicate via the onboard wireless transmitters transceiver or via a wireless transmitter or transceiver on a co opted device being used by the first apparatus . In the Exemplary embodiment the connection between the first and second apparatus may be facilitated by a Bluetooth Bluetooth LE Wi Fi connection RFID CDMA GSM infrared IR broadcast radio microwave transmission satellite communications. Once a connection has been established between the first and second apparatuses the first apparatus may direct the second apparatus to contact the third party on its behalf.

In the embodiments wherein a second apparatus is forwarding signals from the first apparatus the second apparatus may operate in a similar manner to the embodiments described above. For example the second apparatus may be equipped with a SIM card and GPS locator or any combination of features previously described. The SIM enabled second apparatus may directly communicate with server via the network and facilitate a request for assistance directly to the third party . In an alternative embodiment such as the embodiment depicted in the second apparatus may be wirelessly tethered to it s own computing device which may be unassociated with a computing device that may be tethered to a first apparatus . Accordingly similar to the method described previously the second apparatus may receive personal data location data and or any other information stored in the data storage of the first apparatus which may be relayed to the third party .

Upon receipt of the request for assistance and the data from the first apparatus the second apparatus connected via network signal may use the second computing device to submit the location data personal information and request of the first apparatus for assistance to the third party . Accordingly the recipient third party such as an emergency services dispatcher may subsequently open a line of communication with the second computing device second apparatus first computing device or the first apparatus .

Referring to which depicts a schematic of a method for activating and transmitting a request for assistance using an embodiment of a personal security alert and monitoring device . Embodiments of the method may include the steps of determining whether or not apparatus has been manually activated by the user . In the exemplary embodiment the apparatus may engage in requesting emergency services or assistance by directly activating the button on the apparatus itself. In the event that the apparatus has been manually activated by the user apparatus may subsequently determine whether or not assistance may be requested by the apparatus in its current state. This may include a step of evaluating the capabilities of the apparatus including the step of determining whether there is access to a cellular signal or other network capable of submitting the request for assistance to a third party. If a cellular signal or sufficient network is present the apparatus may commence connecting to the network and submitting the request for emergency services or other assistance via the network as described above and transmitting information stored in the data storage of the apparatus to the third party .

In some embodiments wherein a cellular network or signal is not directly available to the monitoring apparatus the apparatus may engage in a step of searching for and connecting to a second monitoring apparatus . The apparatus may engage in a step of determining whether or not the second monitoring device is capable of sending the request for assistance or emergency service using a cellular or other communication network. If the second monitoring device is capable of forwarding the request the first apparatus may request permission to send to transmit the request and stored information via the second apparatus. The second monitoring apparatus may perform the step of forwarding the first apparatus s request for assistance to the desired third party. If however the second apparatus does not have access to a network capable of transmitting the request to a third party the first apparatus may proceed by continuing to search for a separate device capable of fulfilling the request. In some embodiments the first apparatus may also remain connected to the second apparatus and use the second apparatus to extend the searching range in order to find a third monitoring device within a search radius of the second monitoring device s radio transmitter that is able to transmit the request to a third party via a communications network. In some embodiments the chain of personal apparatuses may be more than a first and second apparatus. Embodiments may include a daisy chain of two or more apparatuses connecting to one another via radio transmitters one each device in the daisy chain. For example a daisy chain of 3 50 apparatuses may be wirelessly connected. The chain may continue to grow in the number of devices connected until an apparatus at the end of the chain is identified as being capable of transmitting a request via a communication network to the requested third party .

In an alternative embodiment of the method for requesting assistance the step of manually activating the apparatus may not occur. For example the apparatus may not include a button switch or other means for activating the apparatus manually or the user may not have engaged in the step of activating the apparatus. In this alternative embodiment the apparatus may engage in the activation step based on information collected by sensors detecting abnormal conditions or parameters of the user and the user s surroundings. Based on the information collected by the sensors of the security apparatus the apparatus may automatically elicit a request for assistance for example when the conditions of the user s health related variables or the user s environmental conditions are calculated by the apparatus to be outside a pre programmed value or range of values.

In some embodiments the apparatus may further be capable of having its position identified located or tracked by a computing device networked device or system. depicts a user interface of a computing device tracking and determining the location of the apparatus . The user interface may be an application program program module loaded in the memory of the device tracking the apparatus s location. The tracking device may be any computing device having memory and a processor capable of loading and running the application which communicates with the apparatus . Examples of a tracking device may include a personal computer laptop tablet PC iPad Apple watch Pebble mobile phone smartphone and network enabled media player such as an IPod. The tracking device s interface or dashboard may include a display portion. The display portion may include or display information regarding the location of the apparatus the apparatus s user identification information and or an interactive map . In one embodiment the location of the apparatus may be displayed on a generated map allowing for easy visualization of the apparatus s location. In an alternative embodiment the tracking device may provide an address and or step by step directions guiding the user of the tracking device from their current location to the apparatus s location. The display generating the map may follow the users movements in real time and update the map depending on the user s location in relation to the apparatus .

In an alternative embodiment the program program module or application loaded into the tracking device may register the user of the loaded program as part of a social community with other individuals also having the program or application. The application interface may include a social network or community of active users who each have the interface loaded on their own tracking devices. The display of the interface may also include identifiers of each user. The identifiers may include the participating members name or user ID location and a trust rating which users of the interface may comment or leave feedback about other users. The trust rating may be helpful in assisting individuals of the interface to determine which people are helpful in retrieving lost apparatus s or who may reliably give permissions to a user s apparatus when requests are made to forward requests for assistance via a second apparatus . In some instances a lost apparatus may be close to user who is a member of the social network community of the interface application. Instead of the user moving to the location of the lost apparatus an individual user may contact a community member who is close by and ask them to retrieve a lost apparatus or to place the apparatus in the mail so that the USPS UPS or other common carrier can deliver the lost apparatus back to the user. The trust rating may allow users to provide feedback about helpful and unhelpful users.

The user interface may further include a messaging service communication function and input mechanisms such as a virtual keyboard for facilitating communication between users of the interface application. The messaging service may be a program application or web service loaded into the data storage device such as the memory of the apparatus or the computing device being electronically paired with the apparatus . In one embodiment an individual attempting to ask another to retrieve their apparatus may simply click the user profile on the display and then type a message and submit it to the user directly in the application interface. Users may then communicate back and forth to discuss the logistics of locating and returning the apparatus .

Alternative embodiments may include other forms of communication between users of the application such as a message board . The message board may facilitate postings and responses between users of the application. The message board may be used to provide a mass request for assistance among the broad user base of the interface application rather than singling out and asking each individual user for a help. The message board may be useful for obtaining voluntary responses for help retrieving an apparatus.

The social community messaging service functionality including the instant message features and message board do not necessarily need to be tied to the application for identifying the location of a lost apparatus. In some embodiments the social community messaging program application or web service may be separately loaded in the memory of the computing device tethered to apparatus or loaded directly into the memory of apparatus . Users having a computing device or an apparatus may communicate using the messaging service with other members of the messaging service s community of users.

Referring to which depicting an embodiment of a method for tracking and tracing an apparatus s position or location. The location may be tracked using GPS satellites or network triangulation techniques or a combination of methods thereof. One embodiment may include submitting a request from a requesting computing device to a server . The request may originate from a requesting device having the location tracking software program program module dashboard application and interface or web service loaded in the memory of the requesting device. The requesting computing device may include any of computing devices previously mentioned including personal computers laptops tablet PCs mobile phones network enabled computers mainframes servers and network enabled media players such as an IPod. The request may be submitted to the server in any format the server may understand. For example the requesting device may submit the request via a webs service to a server such web services may include HTTP HTTPS Representational State Transfer REST and XML or any other protocol described above or known in the art and combinations thereof.

Once a server receives the request from the computing device the server may prepare and send a message via a communications network or other established network. The request to the apparatus by the computing device may include a request for identifying information stored on the data storage device of the apparatus including information for the SIM card that the server can use to communicate via a mobile network. The communicating network may send the message via any mobile communications network or other established network to the apparatus and or the SIM card . Communications networks which may be used to communicate may include GSM GPRS CDMA TDMA Mobitex EDGE high speed circuit switched data HSCSD SMS Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS W CDMA LTE or Flash OFDM networks.

The apparatus may receive the communication from the computing device via network communication. The logic board within the apparatus may upon the receipt of the message query location information using a GPS processor within the apparatus from GPS satellites. Upon retrieval of location information the Apparatus may submit a return communication to the server using the SIM card along a communication network such as GSM GPRS SMS CDMA WCDMA LTE EDGE 3G 4G or even using a radio wireless communication network or protocol such as Wi Fi Bluetooth BLE etc.

Once the server receives the communication from the SIM card the server may transmit the location information to the requesting computing device . In one embodiment the server may receive an SMS text message and display the SMS in an XML file which may be available via HTTPS. In an alternative embodiment the server may send a notification the requesting device using the application s internal communication service and or REST HTTPS. Once the requesting device receives the transmitted location information the requesting device may display the location information on the user interface s display .

Referring to which depicts a long range tracking method of an apparatus one embodiment includes an apparatus which may be equipped with a GPS and or an AGPS processor. The GPS processor and AGPS may enable the device to send and receive location information with the GPS satellite . Using GPS and AGPS positioning systems the satellite may transmit the positioning data to the apparatus . The apparatus may store the locational information within its data storage device . Upon receipt of a request by a requesting computing device the apparatus may submit the GPS location data to the device by the methods described above.

In an alternative embodiment the traceable apparatus may be equipped with AGPS only. The mobile communications networks may use cell tower triangulation to identify the position of the SIM Card embedded in the apparatus or a device wirelessly tethered to the apparatus . As shown in triangulation methods may include the use of at least one cell phone tower to locate the apparatus. To more accurately locate the position at least three towers may be employed. Each cell phone tower may broadcast a signal on its mobile communications network in order to ping the SIM card of the apparatus . By using at least three cell phone towers a more accurate approximation of the apparatus s position can be made. The point where all three of the broadcasted signals intersect with the apparatus s SIM card may indicate the position of the SIM card embedded within the traceable apparatus. In yet another alternative embodiment a traceable apparatus may be located using a combination of both GPS location services and cell tower triangulation methods.

Referring to depicting a method of short range tracking of an apparatus using a wireless transmitting device and or protocol. As previously described the apparatus may be equipped with a Bluetooth BLE Wi Fi or other enabled transmitting device capable of sending and receiving wireless signals. In one embodiment a user may track the location of the apparatus using a computing device . The computing device may be equipped with a wireless transmitter which may broadcast and ping a signal being emitted from the traceable apparatus . The computing device used to determine the location of the apparatus may be equipped with applications programs program modules web services or software loaded in the memory of the computing device which may display the current location of the apparatus . The application may also provide the user of the computing device with turn by turn directions and other information which may aid the user in discovering the apparatus s location. In an alternative embodiment the computing device may communicate with the apparatus via Bluetooth BLE or other wireless transmission device and or protocol to remotely enable one or more various output signals to be emitted from the apparatus s output device. Output signals may include flashing lights sounds vibrations and combinations thereof. In addition the application program program module or web service loaded in the memory of the computing device may provide a menu on its interface of selectable output signals a user may select to enable directly from their device. The requesting device may be able to adjust the volume and intensity of the output signals in order to aid their search of the apparatus right from the interface or dashboard menu.

In an alternative embodiment the apparatus may be equipped with a wireless transmitter such as a radio transmitter or infrared transmitter IR which may broadcast and receive radio signals from a searching device . A searching device may be any device capable of sending and receiving radio frequencies to and from the apparatus . A searching device may include remote control devices personal computers tablets laptops and mobile media players such as iPods. The searching device may communicate with the apparatus via radio frequencies and enable various output signals to be displayed from the apparatus s output device. Output signals may include flashing lights sounds vibrations and combinations thereof. In addition the searching device may include buttons which may select the type of output signals released from the apparatus. The searching device may be able to adjust the volume and intensity of the output signals in order to aid their search of the apparatus.

The apparatus its features and methods of use may further be used in some embodiments as device a capable of receiving and relaying to other apparatuses a mass alert or message. For example in one embodiment an emergency message or mass alert may be transmitted from a central location such as a call center dispatcher 911 police station police officer to one or more apparatuses or network of apparatuses within a specified location or network. Each apparatus may receive an audio visual or text alert including the mass alert transmitted by the central location.

The mass alert may be stored in the storage device apparatus of a receiving apparatus however under some circumstances it may be expected that not all apparatuses that are intended to receive the mass alert will actually receive the transmission. This failure may be due to the inability of one or more apparatuses to be connected to a network in communication with the central location transmitting the message. For example a user may have an embodiment of an apparatus that does not have a SIM card or is unable to wirelessly tether to a computing device at the time the mass alert is transmitted. A first apparatus receiving the mass alert may subsequently retransmit the information to a second apparatus or rebroadcast it to all nearby apparatuses automatically or manually selecting to rebroadcast via the input device of the apparatus. Instead of missing out on the mass alert one or more nearby apparatuses or devices wirelessly tethered to the apparatus may rebroadcast the mass alert to other apparatuses using a wireless transmission device and protocol. For example the mass alert message may be rebroadcasted to apparatuses using Bluetooth or BLE transmission methods to send the message to another device within the Bluetooth or BLE transmission area. Accordingly any apparatus that is within the rebroadcast radius may be sent and receive the message from the one or more apparatuses rebroadcasting it.

This type of system may be useful during emergencies where a mass alert may be needed but individuals may be out of contact with their computing devices or have limited network capabilities. For example schools and college campuses may have rules restricting internet access cell phone use or computing devices during classes or other school activities. However one or more students may have an active computing device on silent or the professor may keep a computing device on his person during class. In the event of a school emergency such as a fire or gun men in the vicinity of the school or campus the students and teachers currently in class may receive a detailed message alerting them to the situation even if only one individual out of a plurality of individuals is able to receive the mass alert. A single apparatus or wirelessly tethered apparatus having the capability to receive the mass alert may propagate the mass alert to other surrounding classmates and teachers within their rebroadcast radius.

While this invention has been described in conjunction with the specific embodiments outlined above it is evident that many alternatives modifications and variations will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Accordingly exemplary embodiments of the invention as set forth above are intended to be illustrative not limiting. Various changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the following claims. The claims provide the scope of the coverage of the invention and should not be limited to the specific examples provided herein.

