---

title: Adaptable operating frequency of a variable focal length lens in an adjustable magnification optical system
abstract: An imaging system is provided for a precision machine vision inspection or metrology system. The imaging system optical path includes a variable magnification lens portion and a variable focal length lens portion. The variable magnification lens portion includes various magnification states (e.g., 0.5× to 100×, using interchangeable lenses, or the like.) The variable focal length lens portion (e.g., including a tunable acoustic gradient index of refraction (“TAG”) lens) is operated at different focal length scanning frequencies depending on the magnification state. A TAG lens operated in this manner provides a relatively consistent range of focus (e.g., corresponding to a number of depths of field) with various magnification lenses, without limiting the effective numerical aperture of the imaging system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09602715&OS=09602715&RS=09602715
owner: Mitutoyo Corporation
number: 09602715
owner_city: Kanagawa-ken
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20150709
---
This disclosure relates to precision metrology and more particularly to adjustable magnification optical systems such as machine vision inspection systems.

Adjustable magnification optical systems may be utilized in precision non contact metrology systems such as precision machine vision inspection systems or vision systems for short . Such vision systems may be utilized to obtain precise dimensional measurements of objects and to inspect various other object characteristics and may include a computer a camera and optical system and a precision stage that moves to allow workpiece traversal and inspection. One exemplary prior art system characterized as a general purpose off line precision vision system is the QUICK VISION series of PC based vision systems and QVPAK software available from Mitutoyo America Corporation MAC located in Aurora Ill. The features and operation of the QUICK VISION series of vision systems and the QVPAK software are generally described for example in the QVPAK 3D CNC Vision Measuring Machine User s Guide published January 2003 and the QVPAK 3D CNC Vision Measuring Machine Operation Guide published September 1996 each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. This type of system uses a microscope type optical system and moves the stage so as to provide inspection images of either small or relatively large workpieces at various magnifications.

General purpose precision machine vision inspection systems are generally programmable to provide automated video inspection. Such systems typically include GUI features and predefined image analysis video tools such that operation and programming can be performed by non expert operators. For example U.S. Pat. No. 6 542 180 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety teaches a vision system that uses automated video inspection including the use of various video tools.

In various applications it is desirable to perform high speed autofocus and or other operations to facilitate high speed measurements for high throughput in either stationary or non stop moving inspection systems. The speed of autofocus and other operations requiring focusing in conventional machine vision inspection systems is limited by the motion of the camera through a range of Z height positions. There is a need for improved autofocus and or other operations utilizing alternative methods of collecting images of a range of focus distances e.g. stacks of images for measuring Z height positions at a high speed and which particularly are operable at different levels of magnification without compromising the range of focus image quality and or dimensional accuracy in the images.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This summary is not intended to identify key features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

An imaging system is provided for use in a precision non contact metrology system e.g. such as a machine vision system a measuring microscope etc. In various implementations an optical path of the imaging system includes a variable magnification lens portion and a variable focal length lens portion. The variable magnification lens portion may be alterable between a first magnification state that provides a relatively lower magnification for the imaging system and a second magnification state that provides a relatively higher magnification for the imaging system. The variable focal length lens portion may include a variable focal length lens hereafter a VFL lens that provides a periodically modulated focal length that can be modulated at a first or second frequency that each provide a plurality of modulation periods during an image exposure period used by the imaging system. As one specific example in an exemplary imaging system that is able to collect video images at 30 frames per second and for which the VFL lens may be operated at frequencies of 30 kHz or more there may be over 1 000 modulation periods during each image exposure period used by the imaging system.

In various implementations the variable focal length lens portion may be configured to be operated at the first frequency and a first modulation amplitude to provide a first range for the periodically modulated focal length of the VFL lens while the imaging system is operated using the first magnification state. The first range may correspond to a focus distance range of the imaging system during the first magnification state. The variable focal length lens portion may further be configured to be operated at the second frequency and a second modulation amplitude to provide a second range for the periodically modulated focal length of the VFL lens while the imaging system is operated using the second magnification state. The second range may be greater than the first range and may correspond to a focus distance range of the imaging system during the second magnification state.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the controlling computer system may generally consist of any computing system or device. Suitable computing systems or devices may include personal computers server computers minicomputers mainframe computers distributed computing environments that include any of the foregoing and the like. Such computing systems or devices may include one or more processors that execute software to perform the functions described herein. Processors include programmable general purpose or special purpose microprocessors programmable controllers application specific integrated circuits ASICs programmable logic devices PLDs or the like or a combination of such devices. Software may be stored in memory such as random access memory RAM read only memory ROM flash memory or the like or a combination of such components. Software may also be stored in one or more storage devices such as optical based disks flash memory devices or any other type of non volatile storage medium for storing data. Software may include one or more program modules that include routines programs objects components data structures and so on that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. In distributed computing environments the functionality of the program modules may be combined or distributed across multiple computing systems or devices and accessed via service calls either in a wired or wireless configuration.

The vision measuring machine includes a moveable workpiece stage and an optical imaging system that may include a zoom lens or interchangeable lenses. The zoom lens or interchangeable lenses generally provide various magnifications for the images provided by the optical imaging system . The machine vision inspection system is also described in commonly assigned U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 454 053 7 324 682 8 111 905 and 8 111 938 each of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The optical assembly portion includes a camera system an interchangeable objective lens and may include a turret lens assembly having lenses and . Alternatively to the turret lens assembly a fixed or manually interchangeable magnification altering lens or a zoom lens configuration or the like may be included. In various implementations the various lenses may be included as part of a variable magnification lens portion of the optical assembly portion . In various implementations the interchangeable objective lens may be selected from a set of fixed magnification objective lenses that are included as part of the variable magnification lens portion e.g. a set of objective lenses corresponding to magnifications such as 0.5 1 2 or 2.5 5 10 20 or 25 50 100 etc. .

The optical assembly portion is controllably movable along a z axis that is generally orthogonal to the x and y axes by using a controllable motor that drives an actuator to move the optical assembly portion along the z axis to change the focus of the image of the workpiece . The controllable motor is connected to an input output interface via a signal line . A workpiece or a tray or fixture holding a plurality of workpieces which is to be imaged using the machine vision inspection system is placed on the workpiece stage . The workpiece stage may be controlled to move relative to the optical assembly portion such that the interchangeable objective lens moves between locations on a workpiece and or among a plurality of workpieces .

One or more of a stage light a coaxial light and a surface light e.g. a ring light may emit source light and or respectively to illuminate the workpiece or workpieces . The coaxial light may emit light along a path including a mirror . The source light is reflected or transmitted as workpiece light and the workpiece light used for imaging passes through the interchangeable objective lens and the turret lens assembly and is gathered by the camera system . The image of the workpiece s captured by the camera system is output on a signal line to the control system portion . The light sources and may be connected to the control system portion through signal lines or busses and respectively. The control system portion may rotate the turret lens assembly along axis to select a turret lens through a signal line or bus to alter an image magnification.

As shown in in various exemplary implementations the control system portion includes a controller the input output interface a memory a workpiece program generator and executor and a power supply portion . Each of these components as well as the additional components described below may be interconnected by one or more data control busses and or application programming interfaces or by direct connections between the various elements. The input output interface includes an imaging control interface a motion control interface a lighting control interface and a lens control interface . The lens control interface may include a lens controller including a lens focus operating circuit and or routine or the like. The lens control interface may further include a magnification change adjustment mode which may be selected or automatically implemented when a magnification change is made or detected. The operations and components associated with the magnification change adjustment mode are described in more detail below with respect to .

In various implementations the imaging control interface may include an extended depth of field mode as described in more detail in copending and commonly assigned U.S. Patent Publication No. 2015 0145980 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. An extended depth of field mode may be selected by a user to provide at least one image e.g. a composite image of a workpiece with a depth of field that is greater than what may be provided by the vision components portion when focused at a single focus position. The motion control interface may include a position control element and a speed acceleration control element although such elements may be merged and or indistinguishable. The lighting control interface may include lighting control elements and that control for example the selection power on off switch and strobe pulse timing if applicable for the various corresponding light sources of the machine vision inspection system .

The memory may include an image file memory portion an edge detection memory portion a workpiece program memory portion that may include one or more part programs or the like and a video tool portion . The video tool portion includes video tool portion and other video tool portions e.g. that determine the GUI image processing operation etc. for each of the corresponding video tools and a region of interest ROI generator that supports automatic semi automatic and or manual operations that define various ROIs that are operable in various video tools included in the video tool portion . The video tool portion also includes an autofocus video tool that determines the GUI image processing operation etc. for focus height measurement operations. In various implementations the autofocus video tool may additionally include a high speed focus height tool that may be utilized to measure focus heights with high speed using hardware described in as described in more detail in copending and commonly assigned U.S. Patent Publication No. 2014 0368726 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. In various implementations the high speed focus height tool may be a special mode of the autofocus video tool that may otherwise operate according to conventional methods for autofocus video tools or the operations of the autofocus video tool may only include those of the high speed focus height tool.

In the context of this disclosure and as is known by one of ordinary skill in the art the term video tool generally refers to a relatively complex set of automatic or programmed operations that a machine vision user can implement through a relatively simple user interface e.g. a graphical user interface editable parameter windows menus and the like without creating the step by step sequence of operations included in the video tool or resorting to a generalized text based programming language or the like. For example a video tool may include a complex pre programmed set of image processing operations and computations that are applied and customized in a particular instance by adjusting a few variables or parameters that govern the operations and computations. In addition to the underlying operations and computations the video tool comprises the user interface that allows the user to adjust those parameters for a particular instance of the video tool. For example many machine vision video tools allow a user to configure a graphical region of interest ROI indicator through simple handle dragging operations using a mouse in order to define the location parameters of a subset of an image that is to be analyzed by the image processing operations of a particular instance of a video tool. It should be noted that the visible user interface features are sometimes referred to as the video tool with the underlying operations being included implicitly.

The signal lines or busses and of the stage light the coaxial light and the surface light respectively are all connected to the input output interface . The signal line from the camera system and the signal line from the controllable motor are connected to the input output interface . In addition to carrying image data the signal line may carry a signal from the controller that initiates image acquisition.

One or more display devices e.g. the display of and one or more input devices e.g. the joystick keyboard and mouse of may also be connected to the input output interface . The display devices and input devices may be used to display a user interface that may include various graphical user interface GUI features that are usable to perform inspection operations and or to create and or modify part programs to view the images captured by the camera system and or to directly control the vision system components portion . The display devices may display user interface features e.g. as associated with the autofocus video tool etc. .

In various exemplary implementations when a user utilizes the machine vision inspection system to create a part program for the workpiece the user generates part program instructions by operating the machine vision inspection system in a learn mode to provide a desired image acquisition training sequence. For example a training sequence may comprise positioning a particular workpiece feature of a representative workpiece in the field of view FOV setting light levels focusing or autofocusing acquiring an image and providing an inspection training sequence applied to the image e.g. using an instance of one of the video tools on that workpiece feature . The learn mode operates such that the sequence s are captured or recorded and converted to corresponding part program instructions. These instructions when the part program is executed will cause the machine vision inspection system to reproduce the trained image acquisition and cause inspection operations to automatically inspect that particular workpiece feature that is the corresponding feature in the corresponding location on a run mode workpiece or workpieces which matches the representative workpiece used when creating the part program.

In operation the light source is configurable to emit source light along a path including a partial mirror and through the objective lens to a surface of a workpiece wherein the objective lens receives workpiece light that is focused at a focus position FP proximate to the workpiece and outputs the workpiece light to the tube lens . In various implementations the objective lens may be an interchangeable objective lens and the tube lens may be included as part of a turret lens assembly e.g. similar to the interchangeable objective lens and the turret lens assembly of . In various implementations the objective lens tube lens or any of the other lenses referenced herein may be formed from or operate in conjunction with individual lenses compound lenses etc. The tube lens receives the workpiece light and outputs it to the relay lens .

The relay lens receives the workpiece light and outputs it to the VFL lens . The VFL lens receives the workpiece light and outputs it to the relay lens . The relay lens receives the workpiece light and outputs it to the camera system . In various implementations the camera system may capture an image of the workpiece during an image exposure period and may provide the image to a control system portion e.g. similar to the operation of the camera system for providing an image to the control system portion in .

The VFL lens is electronically controllable to vary the focus position FP of the imaging system during one or more image exposures. The focus position FP may be moved within a range R bound by a focus position FP and a focus position FP. It will be appreciated that in various implementations the range R may be selected by a user or may result from design parameters or may otherwise be automatically determined. In general with respect to the example of it will be appreciated that certain of the illustrated dimensions may not be to scale. For example the VFL lens may have different proportional dimensions than those illustrated e.g. may be less wide and up to 50 mm long or longer for certain applications in order to provide a desired amount of lensing power etc. 

In various implementations a machine vision inspection system may comprise a control system e.g. the control system of that is configurable to control the VFL lens to periodically modulate a focus position of the imaging system . In some implementations the VFL lens may very rapidly adjust or modulate the focus position e.g. periodically at a rate of at least 300 Hz or 3 kHz or 70 kHz or much higher . In some implementations the range R may be as large as 10 mm for a 1 objective lens . In various implementations the VFL lens is advantageously chosen such that it does not require any macroscopic mechanical adjustments in the imaging system and or adjustment of the distance between the objective lens and the workpiece in order to change the focus position FP. In such a case as described in the previously incorporated 980 publication an extended depth of field image may be provided at a high rate and furthermore there are no macroscopic adjustment elements nor associated positioning non repeatability to degrade accuracy when the same imaging system is used for acquiring fixed focus inspection images which may be used for precision measurements e.g. for accuracies on the order of a few micrometers or tenths of micrometers or less and the like. As described in the previously incorporated 726 publication the changes in the focus position FP may also be utilized to rapidly acquire an image stack including a plurality of images at a plurality of positions along a Z height direction proximate to the workpiece .

In various implementations the VFL lens may be a tunable acoustic gradient index of refraction TAG lens. A tunable acoustic gradient index of refraction lens is a high speed VFL lens that uses sound waves in a fluid medium to modulate a focus position and may periodically sweep a range of focal lengths at a frequency of several hundred kHz. Such a lens may be understood by the teachings of the article High speed varifocal imaging with a tunable acoustic gradient index of refraction lens Optics Letters Vol. 33 No. 18 Sep. 15 2008 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Tunable acoustic gradient index lenses and related controllable signal generators are available for example from TAG Optics Inc. of Princeton N.J. The Model TL2.B.xxx series lenses for example are capable of modulation up to approximately 600 KHz.

The VFL lens may be driven by a lens controller which may generate a signal to operate the VFL lens . In one embodiment the lens controller may be a commercial controllable signal generator such as that referred to above. In some implementations the lens controller may be configured or controlled by a user and or an operating program through the imaging control interface and or the lens control interface and or a user interface of the mode outlined previously with respect to . In some implementations the VFL lens may be operated using a periodic signal such that the focus position FP is modulated sinusoidally over time at a high frequency. For example in some exemplary implementations a tunable acoustic gradient index of refraction lens may be configured for focal scanning rates as high as 400 kHz although it should be appreciated that slower focus position adjustments and or modulation frequencies may be desirable in various implementations and or applications. For example in various implementations a periodic modulation of 300 Hz or 3 kHz or 70 kHz or 250 kHz or the like may be used. In implementations where slower focus position adjustments are used the VFL lens may comprise a controllable fluid lens or the like.

In the implementation of the relay lenses and and the VFL lens are designated as being included in a 4f optical configuration while the relay lens and the tube lens are designated as being included in a Keplerian telescope configuration and the tube lens and the objective lens are designated as being included in a microscope configuration. All of the illustrated configurations will be understood to be exemplary only and not limiting with respect to the present disclosure. As part of the Keplerian telescope configuration a focal distance Fof the tube lens is illustrated as being approximately equidistant to a midpoint between the lenses and as is a focal distance f of the relay lens . In alternative implementations the focal distance Ffor the tube lens may be made to be different than the focal distance f of the relay lens which corresponds to one of the 4 f s of the 4f optical configuration . In various implementations where the tube lens may be included as part of a turret lens assembly it may be desirable for other tube lenses of the turret lens assembly when rotated into the operational position to have a focal point at the same location i.e. so as to meet the focal point of the relay lens .

The ratio of the focal distance Fto the focal distance f can be utilized to alter the diameter of the collimated beam of workpiece light out of the relay lens relative to the collimated beam of the workpiece light that is input to the tube lens . This can be used for adjusting the size of the projection of a limiting aperture at the objective lens to the location of the VFL lens in various implementations. The illustrated 1 1 ratio i.e. where F f in is exemplary only and not limiting with respect to the present disclosure. For example as will be described in more detail below with respect to more generally it is desirable for an actual effective aperture for the VFL lens to be at least as large as an objective lens clear aperture as projected to the location of the VFL lens i.e. in various embodiments this is a desired effective aperture for the VFL lens . As one alternative example if F 2 f due to the projection of the objective lens clear aperture to the VFL lens with a reduction or demagnification of one half the desired effective aperture for the VFL lens can be reduced relative to a configuration where F f while still allowing the VFL lens to provide adequate accommodation of off axis field points which might otherwise be vignetted or experience large aberrations in a thick VFL lens such as a TAG lens. It will also be appreciated with respect to the collimated beams of workpiece light that are respectively input to the tube lens and output from the relay lens that in various implementations such collimated beams may be extended into longer path lengths and or beam splitters may be utilized with respect to such collimated beams for providing additional optical paths e.g. as directed to different camera systems etc. .

In various implementations the illustrated 4f optical configuration permits placing the VFL lens e.g. which may be a low numerical aperture NA device such as a tunable acoustic gradient index of refraction lens at the fourier plane FPL of the objective lens . This configuration may maintain the telecentricity at the workpiece and may minimize scale change and image distortion e.g. including providing constant magnification for each Z height of the workpiece and or focus position FP . The Keplerian telescope configuration e.g. including the tube lens and the relay lens may be included between the microscope configuration and the 4f optical configuration and may be configured to provide a desired size of the projection of the objective lens clear aperture at the location of the VFL lens so as to minimize image aberrations etc. as outlined above.

It will be appreciated that in various implementations certain types of dimensional measurements may require near diffraction or diffraction limited imaging. The configuration illustrated in reduces aberrations by restricting the off axis position of the pupil of the objective lens that is imaged into the VFL lens to the fourier plane FPL. In this configuration the radial position may be maintained to be less than the radial position of the 1st Bessel ring in the refractive index profile of the standing wave of the VFL lens e.g. a tunable acoustic gradient index of refraction lens at its lowest resonant frequency f. In this manner light from the microscope configuration i.e. including the objective lens and the tube lens does not exceed the largest clear aperture CAof the VFL lens . In a configuration where the light did exceed the largest clear aperture in various implementations the light could interact with the region of the standing wave of the VFL lens that may have a relative negative refractive index which could increase aberrations and be less suitable for precise dimensional measurements.

In various implementations the microscope configuration may include a variable magnification lens portion e.g. wherein the objective lens is interchangeable or including a zoom lens a turret lens etc. As a specific example in one implementation a variable magnification lens portion may include a set of interchangeable fixed magnification objective lenses corresponding to different magnifications e.g. 0.5 1 2 or 2.5 5 10 20 or 25 50 100 etc. wherein the current objective lens may represent one of the lenses that has been selected from the set. In various implementations the objective lenses that are utilized may be plan apochromat APO objective lenses. One issue with such configurations that may occur as indicated by EQUATION 1 is that in various implementations higher magnifications M i.e. higher NA may correspond to significantly smaller normalized scan ranges Z.

As illustrated in a first line represents ranges of focus e.g. corresponding to normalized scan ranges Z as plotted versus magnification e.g. as determined by a variable magnification lens portion which may include a lens setting or selection in various implementations . For the line the magnification e.g. 1 10 etc. is indicated on the x axis and the ranges of focus are measured in terms of numbers of depths of field DOF which are indicated on the y axis. In various implementations the range of focus may correspond to the total overall range of focus including all of the lenses and components of the imaging system e.g. the imaging system of . As illustrated by the line for the constant resonant frequency e.g. 70 kHz at which the VFL lens is operated certain increases in magnification correspond to decreases in the range of focus. More specifically for the magnifications from 1 to 5 the range of focus is shown to be approximately 28 DOF while for the magnification of 10 the range of focus is shown to have decreased to approximately 15 DOF and for the magnification of 25 the range of focus is shown to have decreased to approximately 4 DOF and for the magnification of 50 the range of focus is shown to have decreased to approximately 1.8 DOF. These significant drops in the range of focus for the higher magnifications result in such configurations being less suitable for certain precision measurement applications.

In various implementations different approaches may be utilized for attempting to increase the range of focus for higher magnifications. For example one method for varying the axial Z scan range for a tunable microscope may be to change the current for operating the VFL lens . Another method would be to change the sinusoidal piezo amplitude Afor operating the VFL lens . However EQUATION 1 indicates that these approaches by themselves may be insufficient for certain applications e.g. for the above described example implementation a factor of 25 optical power may be required to utilize the entire set of magnifications ranging from 1 to 50 for the variable magnification lens portion .

With respect to the utilization of the objective lenses in a configuration such as that illustrated in the clear aperture CA also decreases e.g. as a higher magnification objective lens is selected as indicated by the following equation 2 Eq. 2

This is further illustrated in with respect to a second line which represents desired effective aperture DEA for a VFL lens as plotted versus magnification. For the line the magnification e.g. 1 10 etc. is indicated on the x axis and the DEA is measured in terms of millimeters which are indicated on the y axis. It will be appreciated that the lines and are thus plotted with respect to different types of units on the y axis e.g. number of depths of field or millimeters and are only provided on the same graph for purposes of illustrating the various effects that occur as the magnification is increased. With respect to the line the illustrated DEA s for the VFL lens may correspond in the configuration of to a system limiting aperture as projected to the location of the VFL lens as related to the clear aperture CA of the selected objective lens as described above with respect to EQUATION 2. More specifically this may correspond to an afocal beam footprint e.g. for the on axis and maximum off axis field points of the pupil of the objective lens as seen at the input to the relay lens adjacent to the VFL lens . The footprint follows the objective lens clear aperture CAmultiplied by a scaling factor and if maintained avoids vignetting inside the VFL lens . This is desirable so that the capabilities of relatively expensive high magnification and high NA lenses e.g. objective lenses are not wasted by occluding the high NA rays of the resulting image light in the VFL lens. In various implementations a limiting aperture may intentionally be defined by a specific configuration or component e.g. a plate included on or next to one of the lenses in the optical path so as to ensure that only a limited portion of the corresponding lenses will be utilized e.g. to avoid utilization of the outer portions of the lenses which may produce various levels of distortion etc. 

As further illustrated in a third line represents the actual effective aperture for the VFL lens as plotted versus magnification. In various implementations for certain types of VFL lenses e.g. tunable acoustic gradient index of refraction lenses which in some cases may be relatively long and narrow and may utilize sound waves in a fluid medium the effective aperture may represent the diameter of the optical path through the VFL lens . For the line the magnification e.g. 1 10 etc. is indicated on the x axis and the actual effective aperture is measured in terms of millimeters which is indicated on the y axis. The line illustrates that the actual effective aperture remains relatively constant e.g. at approximately 11 mm as corresponding to the constant amplitude and frequency i.e. 70 kHz utilized for operating the VFL lens . The differences between the lines and indicate that because higher magnification lenses e.g. objective lenses may have smaller diameter clear apertures less of the VFL lens aperture diameter that is available at the constant operating amplitude and frequency i.e. 70 kHz is required as the microscope magnification increases. The principles disclosed herein take advantage of this to make adjustment to the VFL lens that may improve the consistency of the range of focus. More specifically as will be described in more detail below with respect to in accordance with the principles of the present disclosure at higher magnifications higher operating frequencies may be utilized for the VFL lens so as to maintain a more consistent range of focus.

As further illustrated in a second line represents a relative optical power for a VFL lens as plotted versus the resonant frequency for operating the VFL lens . For the line the frequency is indicated in terms of kHz on the x axis and the relative optical power is measured in terms of multiples of the optical power at 70 kHz which is indicated on the y axis in accordance with the scale on the right side of the graph . It will be appreciated that the lines and are thus plotted with respect to different types of units on the y axis e.g. millimeters vs multiples of optical power and are only provided on the same graph for purposes of illustrating the various effects that occur as the frequency is increased. With respect to the line the relative optical power is shown to increase as the frequency increases. More specifically the relative optical power is shown to increase over a range starting at a value of 1 at the operating frequency of 70 kHz to a value of approximately 25 at the operating frequency of approximately 370 kHz. As will be described in more detail below with respect to in accordance with the principles of the present disclosure the higher levels of optical power that are available at the higher resonant operating frequencies may be utilized to maintain a more consistent range of focus as the magnification of the variable magnification lens portion is increased.

For the magnification of 10 in accordance with the principles of the present disclosure the operating frequency for the VFL lens has been increased to 99 kHz. In accordance with the values indicated in the operating frequency of 99 kHz corresponds to an actual effective aperture for the VFL lens of approximately 8 mm and a relative optical power of approximately 2.5 times the optical power at 70 kHz. As shown in the line thus indicates that the actual effective aperture for the VFL lens has been reduced to the value of approximately 8 mm which is similar to the corresponding value indicated by the line for the desired effective aperture DEA at the magnification of 10 . More specifically for the magnification of 10 the operating frequency for the VFL lens has been increased to a level i.e. 99 kHz where the actual effective aperture for the VFL lens more closely matches the desired effective aperture DEA which as described above with respect to represents a system limiting aperture as projected to the location of the VFL lens. As a further result of the increase of the operating frequency to 99 kHz and the corresponding increase in relative optical power the line indicates that the range of focus has been maintained at nearly the same level e.g. slightly above the approximately 28 DOF for the magnification of 10 .

For the magnification of 25 the operating frequency for the VFL lens has been increased to 189 kHz. In accordance with the values indicated in the operating frequency of 189 kHz corresponds to an actual effective aperture for the VFL lens of approximately 4 mm and a relative optical power of approximately 7 times the optical power at 70 kHz. As shown in the line thus indicates that the actual effective aperture for the VFL lens has been reduced to the value of approximately 4 mm which is similar to the corresponding value indicated by the line for the desired effective aperture DEA at the magnification of 25 . As a further result of the increase of the operating frequency to 189 kHz and the corresponding increase in relative optical power the line indicates that the range of focus has been maintained at nearly the same level e.g. slightly above the approximately 28 DOF for the magnification of 25 .

For the magnification of 50 the operating frequency for the VFL lens has been increased to 250 kHz. In accordance with the values indicated in the operating frequency of 250 kHz corresponds to an actual effective aperture for the VFL lens of approximately 3 mm and a relative optical power of approximately 12 times the optical power at 70 kHz. As shown in the line thus indicates that the actual effective aperture for the VFL lens has been reduced to the value of approximately 3 mm which is similar to the corresponding value indicated by the line for the desired effective aperture DEA at the magnification of 50 . As a further result of the increase of the operating frequency to 250 kHz and the corresponding increase in relative optical power the line indicates that the range of focus has been maintained at nearly the same level e.g. slightly below the approximately 28 DOF for the magnification of 50 as was indicated for the lower range of magnifications.

In accordance with the principles of the present disclosure it can be seen that by adapting the operating frequency for the VFL lens to higher frequencies for the higher magnifications of the microscope configuration the range of focus may be maintained at a more consistent level. More specifically as indicated in by operating the VFL lens at the frequencies of 99 kHz 189 kHz and 250 kHz for the magnifications of 10 25 and 50 respectively the range of focus is maintained at a similar level i.e. approximately 28 DOF as was available for the lower magnifications in the range between 1 and 5 . Such configurations allow for operation across a range of magnifications while still achieving a useful range of focus at the different magnifications. For example a variable magnification lens portion may be included as part of the imaging system of for which a set of interchangeable fixed magnification objective lenses corresponding to different magnifications e.g. 0.5 1 2 or 2.5 5 10 20 or 25 50 100 etc. may be utilized and for which the VFL lens may be operated at a frequency that is determined according to which objective lens from the set has been selected. In various implementations such sets of objective lenses may be designated as including a lowest magnification lens e.g. 0.5 or 1 a highest magnification lens e.g. 50 or 100 and a plurality of intermediate magnification lenses e.g. 2.5 5 10 25 .

In accordance with the above described example values in it can be seen that the optical path is configured such that when the imaging system is operated using a designated first magnification state a central diameter of the VFL lens that is used for imaging may be a first imaging diameter e.g. corresponding to the actual effective aperture that is at least 4.0 mm e.g. corresponding to a magnification state of 25 or lower or may be a first imaging diameter that is at least 8.0 mm e.g. corresponding to a magnification state of 10 or lower . In addition when a second magnification state is designated e.g. corresponding to a higher magnification than the first magnification state the central diameter of the VFL lens that is used for imaging may be a second imaging diameter that is less than the first imaging diameter e.g. as the magnifications increase the actual effective aperture for the VFL lens is decreased in accordance with the higher operating frequencies .

Furthermore the optical path is configured such that the central diameter of the VFL lens that is used for imaging is not the limiting aperture of the imaging system for the first or second magnification states. For example in accordance with the indicated values of e.g. as corresponding to the illustrated configuration of the actual effective aperture for the VFL lens is approximately the same as the desired effective aperture and is thus not the limiting aperture of the imaging system. As described above with respect to in other implementations the ratio of the focal distance Fto the focal distance f may be made to be other than 1 1 e.g. 2 1 for which the actual effective aperture for the VFL lens need not be at least as large as an objective lens clear aperture i.e. corresponding to a desired effective aperture for the VFL lens . In such implementations the system may be configured according to the corresponding ratio of the focal distance Fto the focal distance f so that the actual effective aperture for the VFL lens will not be the limiting aperture of the imaging system.

In various implementations a limiting aperture may intentionally be defined by a specific configuration or component e.g. a plate with a specifically sized aperture included on or next to one of the lenses in the optical path so as to ensure that only a desired portion of the corresponding lenses will be utilized e.g. to avoid utilization of the outer portions of the lenses which may produce various levels of distortion etc. . In general it may be undesirable for the actual effective aperture of the VFL lens to be the limiting aperture in that depending on the configuration the actual effective aperture of the VFL lens may otherwise result in significant reductions in the imaging capabilities of the system e.g. as illustrated by the reduction in the range of focus in . Such reductions may correspond to less utilization of the usable range of the lenses in the variable magnification lens portion e.g. such as higher magnification objective lenses which may be relatively expensive and for which utilization of as much of the usable range as possible may be desirable .

When configuring the imaging system according to the values indicated in in various implementations the light source e.g. light source of may be designed with a pulsed mode that is made to accommodate the 250 kHz operating frequency of the VFL lens and thus may be 3.6 times faster than a similar pulsed mode for a 70 kHz operating frequency i.e. 250 kHz 70 kHz 3.6 . In one specific example implementation for obtaining images corresponding to th depth of field DOF sampling for points from focus PFF operations LEDs that are utilized for the light source may be pulsed at 35 nsec 30 MHz for accommodating a 250 kHz operating frequency e.g. as compared to being pulsed at 125 nsec for accommodating a 70 kHz operating frequency . Similarly an LED driver utilized for the PFF sampling may be configured to operate 3.6 faster for accommodating the 250 kHz operating frequency as compared to one for accommodating the 70 kHz operating frequency e.g. for which t 250 nsec in one specific example implementation . In various implementations such speeds for the light source for accommodating the 250 kHz operating frequency may also be achieved utilizing technologies other than LEDs e.g. laser sources such as super continuum Ti sapphire InGaN laser diode etc. which may more typically be configured for operating at such higher speeds.

In various implementations in addition to operating the VFL lens at different frequencies depending on the magnification level of the microscope portion it may also be desirable to configure the telescope configuration according to certain additional design principles. For example in a configuration where a set of interchangeable objective lenses are utilized as part of the variable magnification lens portion it may be desirable to configure the telescope optics to accommodate the objective lens with the largest pupil diameter i.e. corresponding to the lowest magnification level M and the largest off axis field point for a specific size detector format e.g. etc. . In the above examples where a set of objective lenses includes a range of magnification levels NA from 1 to 50 this would indicate configuring the telescope optics according to accommodating the lowest magnification e.g. corresponding to the 1 lens . In configuring the telescope optics in this manner all of the other objective lenses in the set will also automatically be accommodated a high image quality will be maintained across the full set of objective lenses and an acceptable absolute baseline range of focus will result. As described above with respect to EQUATION 2 such a configuration may have insufficient optical power Pby itself to yield a constant range of focus e.g. corresponding to a constant scan range Z although by operating the VFL lens at different frequencies in accordance with the principles of the present disclosure a more consistent range of focus is produced in such a system and image aberrations are also minimized.

At a block a determination is made that the variable magnification lens portion has changed to a second magnification state that provides a second magnification for the imaging system that is different than the first magnification. At a block the variable focal length lens portion is operated at the second frequency and a second modulation amplitude to provide a second range for the periodically modulated focal length of the VFL lens in response to the determination that the variable magnification lens portion has changed to the second magnification state. The second range may be greater than the first range and may correspond to a focus distance range of the imaging system during the second magnification state.

In various implementations a determination as to whether a first or second magnification state has been selected e.g. as corresponding to a selection from a set of objective lenses ranging from 1 to 50 to be used in the variable magnification lens portion may be made in accordance with different types of determination methods. For example an input may be received corresponding to a user selection of one of the fixed magnification lenses such as a user physically selecting an objective lens or utilizing the input output interface of to select an objective lens. As another example an indicator as associated with one of the fixed magnification lenses may be electronically sensed e.g. utilizing optics scanning RFID etc. when the fixed magnification lens is moved into position to be used in the variable magnification lens portion. As another example a magnification of the imaging system may be evaluated after the fixed magnification lens has been moved into position to be used in the variable magnification lens portion.

While preferred implementations of the present disclosure have been illustrated and described numerous variations in the illustrated and described arrangements of features and sequences of operations will be apparent to one skilled in the art based on this disclosure. Various alternative forms may be used to implement the principles disclosed herein. In addition the various implementations described above can be combined to provide further implementations. All of the U.S. patents and U.S. patent applications referred to in this specification are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. Aspects of the implementations can be modified if necessary to employ concepts of the various patents and applications to provide yet further implementations. These and other changes can be made to the implementations in light of the above detailed description. In general in the following claims the terms used should not be construed to limit the claims to the specific implementations disclosed in the specification and the claims but should be construed to include all possible implementations along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

