---

title: Locating computer-controlled entities
abstract: A beacon device is provided in proximity to a computing system within a computing center. A request to locate the computing system in the computing center is triggered on a central control unit. In response to the request to locate the computing system, the control unit generates specification data for a unique radio signal identifier, sends an activation request and the specification data to the beacon device, and provides the specification data to a portable device and stores the specification data on the portable device. In response to receiving the activation request, the beacon device sends a radio signal identifier generated from the specification data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09414351&OS=09414351&RS=09414351
owner: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
number: 09414351
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151028
---
This Application is a Continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 643 395 filed on Mar. 10 2015 which is a Continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 852 624 filed on Aug. 9 2010.

This application claims priority to European Patent Application No. 09167688.2 filed Aug. 12 2009 and entitled Locating Computer Controlled Entities. 

The present invention relates in general to computers and more particularly to a method system and computer program product for locating computer controlled entities.

Large computing centers include a vast number of computing units and related equipment that are distributed within in a wide area e.g. multiple floors buildings etc. . Typically such large computing solutions have a central control unit which enables the computing center personal to identify problems or guide repairs or configuration changes for computing units and related equipment.

If the central control unit and a computing unit are not in the same location an individual such as a computer administrator technician or other user has the responsibility to find the computing unit referenced by the control unit. Applying changes to the wrong computing unit may cause outages or malfunctions in the computing center. Therefore the user often manually maintains a location plan where which computing unit is located. The user must read an identifier from the control unit e.g. a barcode or a human readable identifier and save this identifier in the location plan at the right coordinates. The identifier can then also be used to retrieve the coordinates of the control unit from the location plan.

Various approaches to locating computing unit described previously may include the use of beacon devices to automatically locate the presence of computing units and to store the presence information in a central database. The potential disadvantage of these approaches includes the requirement to establish and maintain means for a coordinate system applicable to the computer center. Other implementations may be costly or provide other potential disadvantages.

In view of the foregoing a need exists for a mechanism for locating computer entities without the associated potential disadvantages previously described. Accordingly various embodiments for locating a computing system within a computing center using a processor device are provided. A beacon device is provided in proximity to the computing system. A request to locate the computing system is triggered on a central control unit. In response to the request to locate the computing system the control unit generates specification data for a unique radio signal identifier sends an activation request and the specification data to the beacon device and provides the specification data to a portable device via a network connection by the control unit the portable device being separate from the control unit and stores the specification data on the portable device. In response to receiving the activation request the beacon device on the computing system sends a radio signal identifier generated from the specification data for locating the computing system.

In one embodiment the computing units are equipped with an embedded service processor each which maintains the connection to the central control unit and controls the associated beacon device in addition to the execution of other system control tasks required for the computing unit. The service processors are connected to the central control unit via Ethernet connections. The central control unit may be a personal computer or a workstation for example among other computing devices.

The beacon devices are able to emit radio signal identifiers when triggered by the associated computing units . A radio signal identifier is similar to a regular radio signal. The signal of the radio signal identifier is sent on a frequency known to the central control unit . Its strength may be chosen to cover only the area of the computing center or may vary according to a particular implementation.

In one embodiment the handheld is a regular personal digital assistant PDA equipped with a rotating antenna and a two dimensional flat screen display although one of ordinary skill will appreciate that other handheld or mobile devices such as tablets phones laptop or other mobile computing devices or platforms and the like. Again in one embodiment the handheld executes a special computer program which interprets the signal data received by the antenna if it matches the radio signal identifier stored in a memory of the handheld . Based on the result of the matching test the handheld computer program uses signal strength data signal strength data over time movement and signal propagation delay data as an input to state of the art algorithms in order to provide graphical direction and distance information signal strength data and signal propagation delay data on the display of the handheld . In one embodiment the signal strength data and the signal propagation delay data are used by the handheld computer program to provide the current distance to the computing unit on the display.

Instead of or in addition to the visual information displayed on the display of the handheld the handheld computer program may provide an audible feedback signal to the user for informing the user when moving whether the relative position of the computing unit is getting closer to the handheld or farther to the handheld .

In step the control unit computer program instructs the selected computing unit to send a radio signal identifier based on the generated radio signal identifier data and the determined frequency signal carrier over its beacon device. When the service processor of the computing unit has received this request together with the generated radio signal identifier data and frequency signal carrier from the central control unit the service processor triggers in step the beacon device of its computing unit to send the corresponding radio signal identifier.

Independent of step the control unit computer program provides the generated radio signal identifier data to the handheld in step . The generated radio signal identifier data can be provided manually to the handheld via memory cards programmed by the central control unit or automatically via some interface connection such as Wireless Local Area Network WLAN Bluetooth Infrared Universal Serial Bus USB or similar means for synchronizing PDAs with other computing devices e.g. Personal Computers . When the handheld has obtained and stored the generated radio signal identifier data from the central control unit the handheld computer programs starts to receive signals in step . When the handheld computer program received a signal in step the handheld computer program compares the received signal with the stored radio signal identifier data in step . Based on the results of the comparison in step the handheld computer program provides corresponding direction information.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wired optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing. Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention have been described above with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the above figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

While one or more embodiments of the present invention have been illustrated in detail one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that modifications and adaptations to those embodiments may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention as set forth in the following claims.

