---

title: Search information providing apparatus and search information providing method
abstract: An information searching apparatus according to an embodiment includes a receiving unit that receives a search request including a search keyword; an acquiring unit that acquires information corresponding to a specific search keyword from an information storage unit when the search keyword included in the search request is the specific search keyword; a generating unit that generates a search result page for displaying a search result and a background image based on the information acquired by the acquiring unit; and a transmitting unit that transmits the search result page generated by the generating unit to a request source.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09454614&OS=09454614&RS=09454614
owner: YAHOO JAPAN CORPORATION
number: 09454614
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20150701
---
This is a Continuation of application Ser. No. 13 737 438 filed Jan. 9 2013 which claims priority to Japanese Patent Application No. 2012 095156 filed Apr. 18 2012. The disclosures of the prior applications are hereby incorporated by reference herein in their entireties.

The present invention relates to a search information providing apparatus and a search information providing method.

The vast amount of information is provided on the Internet. Therefore users use search sites to search for interest information in many cases. Advertisement delivery called search matching advertisement or search interlock advertisement is performed on the search sites.

Such a kind of advertisement delivery is performed by delivering to users search result pages in which advertisements associated with keywords designated by users are displayed in contiguity with search results obtained in response to the search keywords. This technique has been known as disclosed in for example Japanese Laid open Patent Publication No. 2010 211777.

However since search sites are accessed by various kinds of user terminals advertisements are not necessarily displayed with effect in some cases in the conventional advertisement delivery in which advertisements are displayed by texts or banners in separate areas from the search results.

According to one aspect of the embodiments a search information providing apparatus includes a receiving unit that receives a search request including a search keyword a searching unit that acquires first information corresponding to the search keyword as a search result based on the search keyword included in the search request an information storage unit that stores second information corresponding to a specific search keyword an acquiring unit that acquires the second information corresponding to the specific search keyword from the information storage unit when the search keyword included in the search request is the specific search keyword a generating unit that generates a search result page for displaying the search result and a background image based on the second information acquired by the acquiring unit and a transmitting unit that transmits the search result page generated by the generating unit to the source performing the search request including the specific search keyword.

The above and other features advantages and technical and industrial significance of this invention will be better understood by reading the following detailed description of presently preferred embodiments of the invention when considered in connection with the accompanying drawings.

Hereinafter a search information providing apparatus and a search information providing method according to an embodiment of the present disclosure will be described in detail with reference to the accompanying drawings. Further the present disclosure is not limited to the search information providing apparatus and the search information providing method according to the embodiment. Hereinafter a database is also referred to as a DB. 

First a search information providing process performed by the search information providing apparatus according to an embodiment will be described. is a diagram illustrating the search information providing process according to the embodiment. The search information providing apparatus a user terminal and an advertiser terminal illustrated in are connected to a communication network such as the Internet and thus for example can communicate with each other via the communication network by access in which addresses or the like are designated.

When a search keyword designated by the user terminal is a specific search keyword the search information providing apparatus performs the search information providing process of generating a search result page in which an advertisement corresponding to the specific search keyword is set as a background and transmitting the search result page to the user terminal. An advertisement with the background of the search result page is provided from an advertiser who purchases an advertisement posting right. The advertisement posting right is an editing right of a search result page background and is also referred to as a background editing right below.

As illustrated in an operator hereinafter also referred to as a search service provider of the search information providing apparatus that provides search service sells the background editing right to an advertiser Step . The selling of the background editing right is realized in such a manner that for example the search information providing apparatus transmits information regarding the background editing right to the advertiser terminal and the search information providing apparatus receives order information of the background editing right from the advertiser terminal.

An advertiser purchasing the background editing right transmits editing information from the advertiser terminal to the search information providing apparatus Step . The editing information includes information regarding a keyword hereinafter referred to as a designated keyword desired by an advertiser and advertisement information. The search information providing apparatus stores information regarding the designated keyword corresponding to an example of a specific search keyword included in the editing information acquired from the advertiser terminal and the advertisement information in association with each other in an advertisement DB.

In the example illustrated in soccer socks as the designated keyword and information hereinafter referred to as LogoB information which is used to generate an image in which a character LogoB is written in a star shape frame as the advertisement information are stored in association therewith in the advertisement DB. Note that in soccer socks indicates an AND condition.

Thus the information regarding the designated keyword and the advertisement information from each advertiser who purchases the background editing right are acquired and stored in the advertisement DB. After the information regarding the designated keyword and the advertisement information are stored in the advertisement DB the search information providing apparatus can generate a search result page in which an image based on the advertisement information stored in the advertisement DB is set as a background image based on the designated keyword stored in the advertisement DB.

The search information providing apparatus receives a search request from the user terminal Step . The search information providing apparatus performs a searching process of searching an index DB based on the search keyword included in the search request and acquiring information corresponding to the search keyword from the index DB Step . Here the search keyword transmitted from the user terminal is soccer socks and is a keyword of the AND condition of soccer and socks. The search information providing apparatus acquires information associated with both soccer and socks from the index DB.

Further when the search keyword accords with the designated keyword stored in the advertisement DB the search information providing apparatus performs an acquiring process of acquiring the advertisement information corresponding to the designated keyword from the advertisement DB Step . The advertisement DB stores soccer socks as the designated keyword that accords with the search keyword. Accordingly the search information providing apparatus acquires the LogoB information as the advertisement information corresponding to soccer socks from the advertisement DB.

Then the search information providing apparatus generates a search result page in which a search result obtained through the searching process is displayed using the image which is based on the advertisement information acquired through the acquiring process as background image and transmits the generated search result page to the user terminal of a search request source Step . The search result page transmitted from the search information providing apparatus is displayed on a display of the user terminal. Here the search result page is a page that has display contents in which the image which is based on the LogoB information is set as a background in the search result corresponding to soccer socks. 

Thus a background region of the search result page can be used as advertisement region by displaying the image which is based on the advertisement information as the background image of the search result page thereby performing effective advertisement display. Since a search service provider provides a new advertisement method to the advertiser an advertisement revenue can be increased. Further since the advertiser can deliver an impact and high favorable advertisement an advertisement effect can be improved. Furthermore since a screen of a simple search result is not displayed but desired information is displayed with a screen design associated with interest information users can feel novelty and pleasure of a search service.

When the background editing right purchased by the advertiser has a payment condition of actual accomplishment the search information providing apparatus performs a charging process of calculating charging information corresponding to the actual accomplishment of advertisement delivery Step and then transmits the calculation result to the advertiser terminal Step . The search information providing apparatus calculates the charging information based on for example the number of selections of the advertisement information in response to a search request the number of displays on the search result page and the number of favorite registrations or the number of shares to be described below as the actual accomplishment of the advertisement delivery.

Hereinafter the search information providing apparatus performing the search information providing process according to the embodiment will be described in detail with reference to .

An example of the configuration of the search information providing apparatus according to the embodiment will be described with reference to . is a diagram illustrating the example of the configuration of the search information providing apparatus according to the embodiment.

As exemplified in a search information providing apparatus is connected to the user terminals to an advertiser terminal and an advertiser site via a communication network . The search information providing apparatus is managed by the search service provider and the advertiser terminal and the advertiser site are managed by the advertiser.

The user terminals to each include a browser and thus acquire and display information regarding a page provided from the search information providing apparatus via the communication network . For example when the communication network is the Internet the page provided from the search information providing apparatus is a web page which is defined by a markup language such as the HTML HyperText Markup Language . Note that when it is not necessary to distinguish the user terminals to from each other the user terminals to are collectively referred to as the user terminals . 

For example since a plug in type toolbar is embedded in the browser mounted on each user terminal the user of each user terminal uses a search service provided by the search information providing apparatus using the toolbar. For example when the user inputs a search keyword appropriate for information which the user desires to search for within an input frame of the search toolbar and selects a search button of the search toolbar a search request is transmitted from each user terminal to the search information providing apparatus . In the example illustrated in soccer and socks are input to the input frame of the search toolbar and the search button is disposed on the right side of the input frame. Note that the browser and the toolbar are programs installed and operated in the user terminal and are executed by a control unit of the user terminal .

As illustrated in the search information providing apparatus includes a communication I F a control unit an index DB an advertisement DB a user information DB and a content DB . The control unit includes a receiving unit a searching unit an acquiring unit a generating unit a transmitting unit a determining unit and a deciding unit .

The communication I F is an interface such as an NIC Network Interface Card . The receiving unit and the transmitting unit of the control unit receive and transmit various kinds of information from and to the user terminal and the advertiser terminal connected to the communication network via the communication I F .

The DBs to are storage devices such as a RAM Random Access Memory a semiconductor memory element such as a flash memory a hard disk or an optical disc.

The control unit is realized by an integrated circuit such as an ASIC Application Specific Integrated Circuit or an FPGA Field Programmable Gate Array . Further the control unit is realized by causing a CPU Central Processing Unit or an MPU Micro Processing Unit to execute a program stored in an internal storage device not illustrated using the RAM as a work area. The control unit realizes or performs the function or operations of information processing to be described below.

Next an example of the advertisement DB will be described. The advertisement DB stores an advertisement information table and the advertisement information. is a diagram illustrating an example of the advertisement information table stored in the advertisement DB . are diagrams examples of images which are based on the advertisement information. are diagrams illustrating examples of the display positions of an advertisement image.

As illustrated in the advertisement information table includes information in which information regarding designated keywords a category an advertisement classification a storage position an advertiser address the number of searches the number of displays the number of registrations the number of shares the display upper limit number and a display position are associated with each advertisement ID.

The advertisement ID is an ID which the control unit can assign for each background editing right purchased by an advertiser. Further the designated keyword is a keyword that is included in the editing information acquired from the advertiser terminal and is designated by the advertiser. In the example illustrated in a designated keyword with an ID of 10001 is soccer socks and a designated keyword with an ID of 10002 is a liquid crystal television. 

The category is a category that corresponds to the designated keyword and is set based on the designated keyword by the control unit . For example a category cloth is set for soccer socks and a category home appliance is set for the liquid crystal television. The control unit performs the setting based on for example the table in which the designated keyword corresponds to the category.

The advertisement classification is classification information corresponding to the classification of each user terminal and is set into the advertisement information table by the control unit based on the editing information acquired from the advertiser terminal . For example 1 is set as advertisement classification for the user terminal such as a smart phone that includes a relatively small display unit and 2 is set as advertisement classification for the user terminal such as a personal computer that includes a relatively large display unit. Further 3 is set as advertisement classification irrespective of classification of the user terminal . Here the example in which two kinds of classifications of the user terminal are used has been described. However the number of classifications of the user terminal is not limited to two but three or more kinds of classifications may be used depending on the size of a display unit.

The storage position is information that indicates the storage position of the advertisement information corresponding to the designated keyword. The control unit acquires the advertisement information corresponding to the designated keyword in accordance with the storage position from the advertisement DB . The advertisement information is information for generating an image serving as a background of a search result page and is for example image data for example jpeg data or gif data or data for displaying an image with plug in embedded in a browser.

The advertisement information may not be data itself for generating an image. For example the advertisement information may be a URL Uniform Resource Locator indicating the storage position of data in the advertiser site . Further the image hereinafter also referred to as an advertisement image which is based on the advertisement information is for example images illustrated in such as characters signs graphics and patterns. When an image is displayed by the plug in the image may be an image for example an animation image in which a character a sign a graphic a pattern or the like is configured dynamically.

The advertiser address is the address of a web page hereinafter referred to as an advertiser page provided by the advertiser site . A different address is set for each advertisement classification. The advertiser address is information included in the editing information acquired from the advertiser terminal and is set in the advertisement information table by the control unit . Note that the same address can be also used irrespective of the advertisement classification.

The number of searches is the number of times the designated keyword accords with the search keyword and the advertisement image corresponding to the designated keyword is set as the background of the search result page. The number of searches is set for each advertisement classification in the advertisement information table by the control unit . In the example illustrated in for example the number of times the designated keyword soccer socks corresponding to the advertisement ID 10001 accords with the search keyword and an advertisement image in which the advertisement classification is 1 is considered as the background of the search result page is 2031. 

The number of displays is the number of times the number of impressions an advertisement image is set as the background of the search result page irrespective of whether the designated keyword accords with the search keyword. The number of displays is set for each advertisement classification in the advertisement information table by the control unit . In the example illustrated in for example the number of times the advertisement image which corresponds to the advertisement ID 10001 and in which the advertisement classification is 1 is set as the background of the search result page is 2851. 

The number of registrations is the number of favorite registrations by the user terminal and is set for each advertisement classification in the advertisement information table by the control unit . The favorite registration is performed for example by pressing down and selecting a favorite registration button displayed on a search toolbar of the browser displayed on the user terminal .

The number of shares is a number shared between friends by the user terminal and is set for advertisement classification in the advertisement information table by the control unit . The sharing between the friends is performed for example by pressing down and selecting a share button displayed on the search toolbar of the browser displayed on the user terminal .

The display upper limit number is the upper limit of the number of displays regulated by the background editing right purchased by the advertiser. The display upper limit number is set for each advertisement classification in the advertisement information table by the control unit based on the editing information acquired from the advertiser terminal .

In the example illustrated in for example the display upper limit number corresponding to the advertisement ID 10002 is 500. When the number of displays corresponding to the advertisement ID 10002 is 500 the control unit ends the process for the background editing right regulated by the advertisement ID 10002. Note that the display upper limit number may be not the number of displays but the number of searches.

On the other hand the background editing right of the advertisement ID 10001 is a success reward type background editing right and the display upper limit number corresponding to the advertisement ID 10001 is not set. In the success reward type background editing right a payment amount of advertiser is determined based on for example the number of searches the number of displays the number of registrations the number of shares or the like.

The display position is information regarding the display position of the advertisement image on the screen of the user terminal and is set based on the editing information acquired from the advertiser terminal by the control unit . The information regarding on the display position includes coordinate information and information regarding a display size on the search result page.

For example when the coordinate information and the display size are set on the entirety of a search result page to display an advertisement image as illustrated in 1 is set as the display position. When the search result page is long vertically an advertisement image is repeatedly displayed vertically in spite of the fact that 1 is set as the display position.

Further when the coordinate information and the display size are set to display each advertisement image in the right lower portion of the display frame displayed in information of each search result as illustrated in 2 is set as the display position. Furthermore when the coordinate information and the display size are set to arrange and display the same advertisement image over the display frames as illustrated in 3 is set as the display position.

Next an example of the user information DB will be described. A user information table is stored in the user information DB . is a diagram illustrating an example of the user information table stored in the user information DB .

As illustrated in the user information table is information in which a member classification a sex an age preference information a latest advertisement ID a registration advertisement ID a share advertisement ID the number of searches the number of displays the number of registrations and the number of shares are associated with each for each user ID.

The user ID is an ID that is allocated to each user of the user terminal . For example when user registration from the user terminal to the search information providing apparatus is performed the user ID is set into the user information table by the control unit . The member classification indicates a classification of a service provided from the search information providing apparatus and is set in response to a request from the user terminal .

The search information providing apparatus according to the embodiment is configured to provide for example various kinds of digital contents such as music movies magazines and books to the user terminal . The user of each user terminal can acquire desired digital contents by performing the user registration and selecting the member classification. Here the user of the member classification 1 is a free member and the user of the member classification 2 is paid member. The number and kinds of digital contents browsed by the user of the member classification 2 are abundant.

The sex the age the preference information are the sex the age the preference information of the user. Note that the preference information is information regarding the fields preferred by the user. The preference information is determined for example with the search keyword which the user uses in the searching in the search information providing apparatus or by the control unit in the digital contents browsed by the user. In the example illustrated in the fields preferred by the user with the user ID 20001 are car and sports. 

The latest advertisement ID is an advertisement ID corresponding to the advertisement image set as the background image of the latest search result page acquired from the search information providing apparatus by the user terminal . The latest advertisement ID can be substituted whenever the user acquires the search result page from the search information providing apparatus using the user terminal .

For example it is assumed that a search result page in which an advertisement image corresponding to the advertisement ID 10001 is the background image is acquired with the user terminal and then a search result page in which an advertisement image corresponding to the advertisement ID 10002 is the background image is acquired with the user terminal . In this case the latest advertisement ID is substituted with 10002 from 10001. 

The registration advertisement ID is an advertisement ID corresponding to an advertisement image favored and registered by the user. The favorite registration is performed for example when the user selects the favorite registration button displayed in the search toolbar of the browser displayed on the user terminal . As described above the search toolbar is the plug in type toolbar embedded in the browser. The program of the search toolbar is transmitted from the search information providing apparatus to the user terminal in response to a request of the user terminal and is embedded in the browser of the user terminal .

When the user of the user terminal inputs a desired search keyword to the input frame of the search toolbar and selects the search button a search request is transmitted from the user terminal to the search information providing apparatus . In the example illustrated in the search result page transmitted from the search information providing apparatus in the response to the search request including soccer socks as the search keyword is displayed on the browser screen .

When the user selects the background registration button which is the favorite registration button in the state in which the search result page is displayed on the browser screen a background registration request is transmitted from the user terminal to the search information providing apparatus . When the control unit of the search information providing apparatus receives the background registration request from the user terminal the control unit sets the latest advertisement ID corresponding to the user ID as the registration advertisement ID based on the user ID corresponding to the user of the user terminal .

Referring back to the description of the user information table will be continued. The share advertisement ID is an advertisement ID shared and registered from the friends. The share registration is performed for example when the user selects the share button displayed on the search toolbar displayed on the user terminal and selects a share candidate.

In the example illustrated in the background share button is a share button used to perform the share registration. When the user selects the background share button in the state in which the search result page is displayed on the browser screen a share registration request is transmitted from the user terminal to the search information providing apparatus .

When the control unit of the search information providing apparatus receives the share registration request from the user terminal the control unit acquires user IDs of the friends hereinafter referred to as friend IDs corresponding to the user ID from the user information DB based on the user ID corresponding to the user of the user terminal . The control unit of the search information providing apparatus acquires friend names corresponding to the acquired friend IDs from the user information DB and transmits to the user terminal a share destination selection page in which the friend names are listed as the share candidates.

When the control unit of the search information providing apparatus receives the share registration confirmation request from the user terminal the control unit sets the share advertisement ID corresponding to the friend ID selected by the user in the user information table. The share registration confirmation request includes for example the user ID hereinafter referred to as a principal ID corresponding to the user of the user terminal and the friend ID. The control unit of the search information providing apparatus acquires the latest advertisement ID corresponding to the principal ID from the user information table and updates the user information table such that the latest advertisement ID is set as the share advertisement ID corresponding to the friend ID.

Referring back to the description of the user information table will be continued. The number of searches is the number of times the search request is performed to the search information providing apparatus from the user terminal of the user. The number of searches is updated by the control unit whenever the user makes the search request. The number of displays is the number of times the search result page is displayed on the user terminal of the user. The number of displays is updated by the control unit whenever the search result page is displayed on the user terminal .

The number of registrations is the number of advertisement images favored and registered by the user. In the example illustrated in the number of registrations is the number of times the user selects the background registration button . The number of shares is the number of advertisement images shared and registered. In the example illustrated in the number of shares is the number of times the user selects the share registration button .

Next the order of the search information providing process performed by the search information providing apparatus according to the embodiment will be described. is a flowchart illustrating the search information providing process performed by the search information providing apparatus according to the embodiment. The search information providing process is a process that is repeatedly performed by the control unit .

As illustrated in the receiving unit of the control unit determines whether to receive the search request including the search keyword from the user terminal via the communication I F step S . When the receiving unit determines to receive the search request Yes in step S the searching unit performs a searching process of acquiring the predetermined number of information which is relevant to the search keyword from the index DB based on the search keyword included in the search request in order from the information which is the most relevant to the search keyword and receiving and transferring the information as the search result to the generating unit step S .

For example when the number of display frames see of the search result disposed in the search result page is ten the searching unit acquires ten pieces of information in order from the information which is the most relevant to the search keyword from the index DB .

The index DB is for example a database that is constructed by extracting the URL or keywords of web pages acquired by a crawling robot called a crawler. For example the index DB includes a URL field indicating a URL for accessing a web site accessed by the crawler and an index keyword field indicating a keyword extracted from the web site.

When the searching unit ends the searching process the acquiring unit of the control unit performs an acquiring process step S . The acquiring process is a process of acquiring the advertisement information corresponding to a designated search keyword from the advertisement DB when the search keyword included in the search request is the designated search keyword. Further the acquiring unit also performs a process of acquiring the advertiser address corresponding to the designated search keyword in the acquiring process.

Here the acquiring process performed by the acquiring unit is performed after the searching process performed by the searching unit . However the acquiring process performed by the acquiring unit may be performed in parallel to the searching process performed by the searching unit . Thus it is possible to improve the speed of the search information providing process.

When the receiving unit determines not to receive the search request in step S No in step S the receiving unit determines whether to receive a transmission request hereinafter referred to as a next page request for transmitting a next search result page from the user terminal via the communication I F step S .

A next search result page is a page that is transmitted from the search information providing apparatus when the number of search results in the searching process exceeds the number of display frames installed in the search result page. For example the number of search results is and the number of display frames is ten the user can display nineteen next search result pages on the display unit of the user terminal by repeatedly selecting the next page button.

When the receiving unit determines to receive the transmission request for transmitting the next page request Yes in step S the acquiring unit performs the searching process step S . The next page request includes information regarding the number of completed searches and therefore the predetermined number of new search results is searched based on the number of completed searches. For example when forty search results which are highly relevant to the search keyword are provided to the user terminal the number of completed searches is forty.

Next the acquiring unit performs an acquiring process step S . The acquiring process is the same as the process of step S. The acquiring unit can make the advertisement information different whenever the next page button is selected in response to a request from the user terminal . Thus the user of the user terminal can view the search result page against a different background whenever the user selects the next page button.

When the process of step S or the process of step S ends the generating unit of the control unit generates the search result page based on the search result obtained through the searching process and the acquisition result obtained through the acquiring process step S . The search result page is a page for displaying the search result of the searching unit in which an image which is based on the advertisement information acquired by the acquiring unit is set as a background image and includes a link button configured such that the address of an advertiser page is a link destination.

When the search keyword is soccer socks and the advertisement information table stored in the advertisement DB is in the state illustrated in for example the search result page illustrated in is generated. The search result page is generated with HTML. For example the contents of the search result are described with text data and the display position of the advertisement information and the address are defined. The search result page includes a link button . Therefore the user of the user terminal can select the link button to access the advertiser page from the user terminal . The link button has a color and a shape according to the corresponding advertisement image. Note that the link button may be a button in which one of the color and the shape corresponds to an advertisement image.

When the number of pieces of information corresponding to the search keyword searched by the searching unit exceeds a predetermined number the generating unit generates a plurality of search result pages of which each displays the background image and the search results less than or equal to a predetermined number. These background images are different. That is different advertisement images are set as background images between the first search result page and the next search result page and different advertisement images are set as background images between the next search result pages. Accordingly the user can display the search result pages in which the different advertisement images are set as the background images whenever the user selects the next page button.

The generating unit can set the different advertisement images as images for which at least one of a color and a size is different. The size can be set to be different for example by changing the width of the display frame of the advertisement image. Further the color can be set such that the advertisement information table includes image information corresponding to images with different colors.

When the receiving unit determines not to receive the transmission request for requesting the next page in step S No in step S the receiving unit determines whether to receive a content request from the user terminal via the communication I F step S . When the receiving unit determines to receive the content request Yes in step S the generating unit acquires information regarding a content corresponding to the content request from the content DB step S .

Next the generating unit generates a content page including the information regarding the content acquired from the content DB step S . Further the generating unit can restrict the information regarding the content included in the content page in accordance with the member classification of the user information table stored in the user information DB .

When the processes of steps S and S end the transmitting unit transmits the search result page or the content page generated by the generating unit to the user terminal of the request source via the communication I F step S . The user terminal displays the image appropriate for the page received from the search information providing apparatus on the browser screen.

When the receiving unit determines not to receive the content request in step S No in step S the receiving unit determines whether to receive the registration request from the user terminal via the communication I F step S . When the receiving unit determines to receive the registration request Yes in step S the receiving unit updates the user information table stored in the user information DB and performs the favorite registration step S . Specifically the receiving unit sets the latest advertisement ID as a registration advertisement ID in the information corresponding to a user ID hereinafter referred to as a request source user ID of the user which is the request source and increments the number of registrations. For example when the user information table is in the state illustrated in and the user terminal of the user corresponding to the user ID 20001 performs the registration request the receiving unit sets the registration advertisement ID to 10002 which is the same as the latest advertisement ID and sets the number of registrations to 2. 

When the receiving unit determines not to receive the registration request in step S No in step S the receiving unit determines whether to receive the share registration request from the user terminal via the communication I F step S . When the receiving unit determines to receive the share registration request Yes in step S the receiving unit updates the user information table stored in the user information DB and performs the share registration step S .

When the receiving unit determines not to receive the share registration in step S No in step S the receiving unit determines whether to receive the cancellation request from the user terminal via the communication I F step S . When the receiving unit determines to receive the cancellation request Yes in step S the receiving unit updates the user information table stored in the user information DB and cancels registration step S . Specifically the receiving unit deletes the registration advertisement ID in the information corresponding to the request source user ID. The cancellation request is transmitted from the user terminal for example when the user selects the background cancellation button illustrated in .

Next an order of the acquiring process of step S illustrated in will be described. is a flowchart illustrating the acquiring process performed by the search information providing apparatus according to the embodiment.

As illustrated in the acquiring unit of the control unit determines whether the favorite registration corresponding to the request source user ID is present based on the user information table stored in the user information DB step S . When the registration advertisement ID corresponding to the request source user ID is present the acquiring unit determines that the favorite registration corresponding to the request source user ID is present. Otherwise the acquiring unit determines that the favorite registration corresponding to the request source user ID is not present.

When the acquiring unit determines that the favorite registration corresponding to the request source user ID is present Yes in step S the acquiring unit acquires the registration advertisement ID in the user information table step S . Thus the generating unit generates the search result page in which the advertisement image corresponding to the registration advertisement ID is set as the background image and the transmitting unit transmits the generated search result page to the user terminal .

When the acquiring unit determines that the favorite registration corresponding to the request source user ID is not present in step S No in step S the acquiring unit determines whether the share registration corresponding to the request source user ID is present based on the user information table stored in the user information DB step S . When the share advertisement ID corresponding to the request source user ID is present the acquiring unit determines that the share registration corresponding to the request source user ID is present. Otherwise the acquiring unit determines that the share registration corresponding to the request source user ID is not present.

When the acquiring unit determines that the share registration is present Yes in step S the acquiring unit acquires the share advertisement ID from the user information table step S . Thus the generating unit generates the search result page in which the advertisement image corresponding to the share advertisement ID is set as the background image and the transmitting unit transmits the generated search result page to the user terminal .

When the acquiring unit determines that the share registration is not present in step S No in step S the acquiring unit determines whether the designated keyword that accords with the search keyword is present based on the user information table stored in the user information DB step S .

When the acquiring unit determines whether the designated keyword that accords with the search keyword is present Yes in step S the acquiring unit determines whether the plurality of advertisement IDs hereinafter accord advertisement ID that accord with the search keyword are present step S . When the acquiring unit determines that the plurality of accord advertisement IDs are present Yes in step S the acquiring unit extracts one accord advertisement ID among the accord advertisement IDs based on the user information table stored in the user information DB step S .

Specifically the acquiring unit acquires user attributes such as the sex age and the preference information of the user corresponding to the request source user ID from the user information table and acquires the accord advertisement ID which is the most relevant to the user attributes. Note that the accord advertisement ID which is the most relevant to the attribute information is for example an accord advertisement ID for which relevance between the field or contents of the advertiser page and the user attributes is the highest. The field or contents of the advertiser page can be determined through a document analyzing process by the control unit .

When the acquiring unit can acquire the position information of the user terminal via the receiving unit the acquiring unit may acquire the accord advertisement ID which is the most relevant to the position information of the user terminal . For example the acquiring unit acquires the accord advertisement ID that accords with or is the most relevant to an advertisement image present near the position of the user terminal . Further for example the acquiring unit may acquire the accord advertisement ID which is the most relevant with the position of the user terminal .

When the acquiring unit determines whether the plurality of accord advertisement ID are not present in step S No in step S the acquiring unit acquires the accord advertisement ID as an extracting advertisement ID step S .

When the acquiring unit determines that the designated keyword that accords with the search keyword is not present in step S No in step S the acquiring unit determines a category corresponding to the search keyword and acquires one advertisement ID corresponding to a category which accords with the category from the advertisement information table step S . For example when the search keyword is soccer wear the acquiring unit determines the corresponding category is cloth. When the advertisement information table is in the state illustrated in the advertisement ID acquired by the acquiring unit is 10001. 

When the advertisement ID corresponding to category that accords with the category corresponding to the search keyword is not present the acquiring unit acquires the advertisement ID which is random or is based on a predetermined rule from the advertisement information table. Further instead of acquiring the advertisement ID that accords with the category the acquiring unit may acquire the advertisement ID which is random or is based on a predetermined rule from the advertisement information table. Furthermore the acquiring unit may acquire one advertisement ID based on the user information table from the advertisement information table as in step S.

Next in step S the acquiring unit determines whether the advertisement classification corresponding to the user performing the search request is 1 step S . Since the classification of the user terminal is included in the search request the acquiring unit acquires classification information of the user terminal from the receiving unit . When the acquiring unit determines that the advertisement classification corresponding to the user is 1 Yes in step S the acquiring unit acquires the advertisement information regarding the advertisement classification 1 corresponding to the acquired advertisement ID from the advertisement information table step S . The acquired advertisement ID is an advertisement ID acquired in any one of steps S S S S and S.

Conversely when the acquiring unit determines that the advertisement classification corresponding to the user is not 1 in step S No in step S the acquiring unit acquires the advertisement information regarding the advertisement classification 2 corresponding to the acquired advertisement ID from the advertisement information table step S . Note that when the advertisement classification corresponding to the classification of the user terminal is not present in the advertisement information table the acquiring unit acquires the advertisement information corresponding to the advertisement classification present in the advertisement information table.

Thus the acquiring unit acquires the advertisement IDs preferentially in the order of the registration advertisement ID the share advertisement ID and the accord advertisement ID and acquires the advertisement information corresponding to the classification of the user terminal . Note that the acquiring unit may set the acquisition preference order to the order of the share advertisement ID the registration advertisement ID and the accord advertisement ID.

Next an order of the share registering process of step S illustrated in will be described. is a flowchart illustrating the share registering process performed by the search information providing apparatus according to the embodiment.

As illustrated in the acquiring unit of the control unit acquires the friend ID corresponding to the user ID based on the request source user ID of the share registration request from the user information DB step S . Since the user information DB stores a friend information table not illustrated in which the friend ID is associated with each user ID the acquiring unit acquires the friend ID corresponding to the request source user ID from the friend information table. Further the acquiring unit increments the number of shares corresponding to the request source user ID of the share registration request.

Note that the friend information table is for example a friend information table used for an SNS Social Networking Service service provided by the search information providing apparatus or a friend information table used for an SNS service provided by an external server. In the case of the friend information table used for the SNS service provided by the external server a separate user ID correspondence table is stored in the user information DB and different user IDs are converted between services using the user ID correspondence table.

Next the generating unit acquires the friend name corresponding to the friend ID acquired by the acquiring unit from the user information DB and generates the share destination selection page in which the friend name is listed as the share candidate step S . Since the user information DB stores a user registration table in which information regarding user names log in IDs passwords and the like is associated with each other in correspondence with the user IDs the generating unit acquires the friend name corresponding to the friend ID from the user registration table.

Next the transmitting unit transmits the share destination selection page generated by the generating unit to the user terminal of the request source step S . Thereafter when the share registration confirmation request is received from the user terminal the share advertisement ID corresponding to the selected friend ID is set step S . Specifically the receiving unit acquires the latest advertisement ID corresponding to the request source user ID principal ID from the user information table and updates the user information table such that the latest advertisement ID is set as the share advertisement ID corresponding to the friend ID.

Next an order of the compensation and privilege deciding process performed by the search information providing apparatus will be described. is a flowchart illustrating compensation and privilege deciding process performed by the search information providing apparatus according to the embodiment. The compensation and privilege deciding process is a process that is performed repeatedly at a predetermined period by the control unit .

As illustrated in the determining unit of the control unit acquires information from the advertisement information table stored in the advertisement DB and determines a use status of each advertisement ID step S . For example the determining unit acquires the number of searches the number of displays the number of registrations and the number of shares for each advertisement ID from the advertisement information table and calculates a use point for each advertisement ID.

For example a use point at each search time a use point at each display time of an advertisement image a use point at each favorite registration time and a use point at each share registration are set and stored in the advertisement DB . The determining unit calculates the use point for each advertisement ID based on the set use points. Note that the determining unit may determine the use status of each advertisement ID based on not all of the number of searches the number of displays the number of registrations and the number of shares but some thereof.

The deciding unit determines the compensation for the advertisement posting right for the advertisement ID based on the use status determined by the determining unit step S . Further the advertisement ID for which the processes of steps S and S are performed is an advertisement ID corresponding to the success reward type background editing right. Accordingly the processes of steps S and S are not performed for the advertisement ID in which the display upper limit number is defined.

Next the determining unit of the control unit acquires information from the user information table stored in the user information DB and determines the search service use status of each user ID step S . For example the determining unit acquires the number of searches the number of displays the number of registrations and the number of shares for each user ID from the user information table and calculates a use point for each user ID. A method of calculating the use point may be for example the same as the method in the process of step S.

The deciding unit decides the privilege for the user ID based on the service use status of each user ID determined by the determining unit step S . For example the deciding unit may set the member classification from 1 to 2 or decrease the cost of a content which may be used by the user terminal . Further the determining unit may decrease a membership fee when the member classification of the user is 2. Thus the determining unit may determine the compensation for the provided content. Furthermore the determining unit may provide a coupon a present or the like to the user.

Thus the search information providing apparatus may determine the price of the compensation in accordance with the use status of each advertisement and also may provide a privilege for each user in accordance with the use status of each user. Since the privilege provided to each user may motivate each user to use the search service it is possible to increase a chance to suggest the advertisement image to the user of the user terminal . Furthermore by increasing the use point of the favorite registration or the share registration than that at the searching or displaying time the user may be motivated to perform the favorite registration or the share registration. Thus since the same advertisement image may be displayed to the user the advertisement effect may be further improved.

Further the control unit may perform the processes of steps S and at a period different from the period of the processes of steps S and S.

In the search information providing apparatus described above according to the embodiment the receiving unit receives a search request including a search keyword from the user terminal . The searching unit acquires information corresponding to the search keyword as a search result based on the search keyword included in the search request. The advertisement DB corresponding to an example of an advertisement information storage unit stores advertisement information corresponding to a designated keyword corresponding to an example of a specific search keyword . The acquiring unit acquires the advertisement information corresponding to the designated keyword from the advertisement DB when the search keyword included in the search request is the designated keyword stored in the advertisement DB . The generating unit generates a search result page for displaying the search result and a background image based on the advertisement information acquired by the acquiring unit . The transmitting unit transmits the search result page generated by the generating unit to the user terminal performing the search request that accords with the designated keyword.

Thus the search information providing apparatus according to the embodiment can display the image which is based on the advertisement information in the background image of the search result page in response to the search keyword and therefore can effectively display advertisement. For example a search service provider can provide a new advertisement method to advertisers thereby increasing an advertisement income. Further the advertisers can deliver the high favorite advertisement with impact thereby improving an advertisement effect. Since a screen of a simple search result is not displayed but desired information is displayed with the background display relevant to interest information to the users the users can feel novelty and pleasure of a search service. Further the effective advertisement display can be realized even with a portable device in which a display range is restricted.

Further in the search information providing apparatus according to the embodiment the user information DB corresponding to an example of a user information storage unit stores information regarding the user of the user terminal . The acquiring unit selects advertisement information corresponding to the information stored in the user information DB among the advertisement information corresponding to the designated keyword when the search keyword included in the search request is the designated keyword stored in the advertisement DB .

Thus since the search information providing apparatus according to the embodiment can select not only the search keyword but also the advertisement information corresponding to the user information advertisement can be displayed more effectively to the user.

Further in the search information providing apparatus according to the embodiment the receiving unit determines a classification of the user terminal performing the search request. The advertisement DB stores advertisement information corresponding to the classification of the user terminal as the advertisement information corresponding to the designated keyword. The acquiring unit selects the advertisement information corresponding to the classification of the user terminal performing the search request as the advertisement information corresponding to the designated keyword when the search keyword included in the search request is the designated keyword stored in the advertisement DB .

Thus since the search information providing apparatus according to the embodiment can set the image which is based on the advertisement information corresponding to the classification of the user terminal as the background image of the search result page for example the background image corresponding to the screen size can be selected. Therefore the suitable advertisement display can be performed in accordance with the classification of the user terminal thereby realizing the advertisement effect more effectively.

In the search information providing apparatus according to the embodiment the receiving unit receives a registration request for requesting the background image displayed in the search result page from the user terminal . The acquiring unit acquires advertisement information corresponding to the background image of the registration request from the advertisement DB instead of the advertisement information corresponding to the designated keyword included in the search request when the user terminal performing the registration request performs the search request including the designated keyword stored in the advertisement DB .

Thus the search information providing apparatus according to the embodiment can continue displaying the advertisement display favored by the user in the search result page. Therefore the user can use the search service through the preferred background display while the advertiser can continue displaying the same advertisement to the user. Therefore the advertisement effect can be realized more effectively.

In the search information providing apparatus according to the embodiment the advertisement DB stores an address of an advertiser page corresponding to an example of a predetermined page in correspondence with the advertisement information. The generating unit adds a link button for accessing the advertiser page corresponding to the advertisement information acquired by the acquiring unit to the search result page based on the address of the advertiser page stored in the advertisement DB .

Thus since the search information providing apparatus according to the embodiment can urge the user to access the advertiser page guide to conversion in addition to impression can be realized.

In the search information providing apparatus according to the embodiment the link button has a color and or a shape according to an image based on the corresponding advertisement information.

Thus the search information providing apparatus according to the embodiment can realize a synergistic advertisement effect of the background image and the link button. Further since the link button can be effectively displayed an access possibility to the advertiser page can be increased.

In the search information providing apparatus according to the embodiment the content DB stores a content to be provided to each user terminal . The deciding unit decides a compensation for the provision of the content for each user terminal . The determining unit determines a use status of the advertisement information corresponding to the designated keyword for each user terminal . The deciding unit decides the compensation for the provision of the content based on the determination result of the determining unit .

Thus the search information providing apparatus according to the embodiment can provide an incentive to use the search service. Therefore the number of uses of the search service can be increased and thus the advertisement effect can be further improved.

In the search information providing apparatus according to the embodiment when information corresponding to the search keyword searched by the searching unit exceeds a predetermined number a plurality of search result pages of which each displays the background image and the search results less than or equal to a predetermined number the background images being different.

Thus the search information providing apparatus according to the embodiment can display the different background displays between the search result pages. Therefore the users can further feel novelty and pleasure of the search service.

In the search information providing apparatus according to the embodiment images for which at least one of a color and a size is different are set as the different background images.

Thus the search information providing apparatus according to the embodiment can perform the background display such that the color or size is different. Therefore the users can further feel novelty and pleasure of the search service due to the color or change of the same advertisement image.

In the above described embodiment the example has been described in which the advertisement information based on the user information is selected through the user registration. However for example the user information may be collected using an HTTP cookie HyperText Transfer Protocol Cookie and the advertisement information may be selected based on the user information.

In the above described embodiment the example of the search result page in which a banner advertisement or the like is not displayed has been described. The designated keyword and a banner advertisement or an advertisement text may be associated in the advertisement information table and the advertisement banner or the advertisement text may be displayed in addition to the background image in the search result page. In this case for example the control unit can cause the advertisement banner of the same advertiser not to overlap with the background image which is based on the advertisement information. Further the control unit may preferentially display the advertisement banner of the advertiser performing the favorite registration on the user terminal performing the favorite registration on the advertisement information. Thus the number of clicks of the advertisement banner can be expected to be increased.

In the above described embodiment the share registration has been described. However the control unit can limit the number of times information is displayed on the user terminal of a friend when the share registration is performed. For example the share registration is deleted after the search request is performed by a predetermined number of times from the user terminal of a friend after the share registration. In this case the friend can display the search result page in which the advertisement image continuously shared and registered is set as the background image by performing the favorite registration until the number of search request exceeds the predetermined number of times. On the other hand when the friend does not like the shared and registered advertisement image the friend can display an advertisement image corresponding to the search keyword by performing nothing or selecting the background cancellation button.

In the above described embodiment the control unit increments the number of displays of the advertisement information table for each search result page. However for example the control unit may update the number of displays of the advertisement information table in accordance with the number of display frames. In this case for example the control unit can acquire scroll information from the user terminal and determine the number of display frames actually displayed on the display unit of the user terminal .

In the above described embodiment the advertisement image corresponding to the same advertisement ID is configured to be displayed in one search result page. However the control unit may display an advertisement image with different advertisement ID in each display frame of a predetermined number unit.

In the above described embodiment the example has been described in which the background registration button the background share button and the background cancellation button are disposed in the search toolbar but the buttons for the advertisement image are not limited to these buttons. For example a background change button may be disposed in the search toolbar. When the user selects the background change button a background change request may be transmitted from the user terminal to the search information providing apparatus . In this case the control unit generates a search result page in which the advertisement image is changed and transmits the generated search result page to the user terminal of the request source.

The above described search information providing apparatus may be realized by a plurality of server computers and depending on the function the configuration may be changed flexibly for example by calling and realizing an external platform or the like by an API Application Programming Interface a network computing or the like.

Additional advantages and modifications will readily occur to those skilled in the art. Therefore the invention in its broader aspects is not limited to the specific details and representative embodiments shown and described herein. Accordingly various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the general inventive concept as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

