---

title: Media device knowledge base
abstract: A media content distribution service identifies a type of media device sending a request to the service over a network and to dynamically adapt content requested by the media device based on the identification. A request sent by a media device may, for example, identify a media content item a user desires to view at the media device, specify a search query for media content items, or otherwise request interaction with the service. According an embodiment, a media content distribution service may use information known about an identified media device type to dynamically adapt media content or other requested resources for display by the media device. By dynamically adapting media content and other resources based on an identified media device type, the media content distribution service may provide access to the services that is compatible with a wide range of media devices having varying device specifications and capabilities.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09405813&OS=09405813&RS=09405813
owner: Vuclip
number: 09405813
owner_city: Milpitas
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150219
---
Embodiments relate generally to the distribution of media content. More specifically embodiments described herein relate to systems and techniques for identifying a type of media device requesting media content from a content distribution system over a network and for dynamically adapting the requested media content based on the identified media device type.

The approaches described in this section are approaches that could be pursued but not necessarily approaches that have been previously conceived or pursued. Therefore unless otherwise indicated it should not be assumed that any of the approaches described in this section qualify as prior art merely by virtue of their inclusion in this section.

A variety of systems and techniques exist for distributing media content to media playback devices including mobile phones tablets laptop or desktop computers set top boxes gaming devices and many other consumer electronic devices. For example existing content distribution services often provide interfaces by which a user may browse a media content catalog over a network using various applications at their media playback devices. Users may use the interfaces to select specific items of media content from the catalog which are then transferred over the network from the content distribution services to the media playback devices.

The popularity of such content distribution services continues to increase particularly in developing countries. As the popularity of these services has increased so too has the diversity in the type and capabilities of media devices accessing such services. Media distribution techniques and content formats used by such services often assume that media devices accessing the service are relatively current in performance specifications however in many parts of the world such as in developing countries access to current generation media devices may be limited and or prohibitively expensive. These assumptions may result in the content distribution services distributing media content in formats or using techniques that are incompatible with older devices thereby restricting the ability of many users to utilize the services. Consequently many existing systems and techniques for distributing media content are deficient in environments where a wide diversity of media device types exists.

In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent however that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

Approaches techniques and mechanisms are disclosed for a media content distribution service to identify a type of media device sending a request to the service over a network and to dynamically adapt content requested by the media device based on the identification. A request sent by a media device may for example identify a media content item a user desires to view at the media device specify a search query for media content items or otherwise request interaction with the service. According an embodiment a media content distribution service may use information known about an identified media device type to dynamically adapt media content or other requested resources for display by the media device. By dynamically adapting media content and other resources based on an identified media device type the media content distribution service may provide access to the services that is compatible with a wide range of media devices having varying device specifications and capabilities.

According to an embodiment a centralized media device information identification system accessible to the media content distribution service facilitates the identification of requesting media devices. A device information identification system is configured to identify a type of requesting media device by analyzing user agent identification data contained in the request and locating a device profile based on the user agent identification data. In this context user agent identification data broadly refers to any data included in a request that may be used by the identification system to infer a type of media device sending the request. A device profile associated with a particular type of media device identified generally may include among other information specifications of a device s hardware software and the device s ability to play particular types and formats of media content. Upon recognition of a type of requesting media device a device information identification system may provide information included in a corresponding device profile to enable the content distribution system to adapt the requested content accordingly.

In other aspects the invention encompasses a computer apparatus and a computer readable medium configured to carry out the foregoing steps.

The networked computer system comprises one or more computing devices. These one or more computing devices comprise any combination of hardware and software configured to implement the various logical components described herein. For example the one or more computing devices may include one or more memories storing instructions for implementing the various components described herein one or more hardware processors configured to execute the instructions stored in the one or more memories and various data repositories in the one or more memories for storing data structures utilized and manipulated by the various components.

The networked computer system includes one or more media devices . Media devices of broadly represent any computing device capable of accessing and receiving media content from a content distribution computer system . Types of media devices may include traditional mobile phones smart phones tablet computers other handheld computers laptop computers netbook computers ultrabook computers portable media players gaming devices and so forth. Examples of commercially available media devices include IPHONE IPAD or other IOS devices ANDROID devices and MICROSOFT WINDOWS devices.

In an embodiment a plurality of media devices is coupled to a content distribution computer system via one or more networks . Network broadly represents one or more LANs WANs cellular networks e.g. LTE HSPA 3G and older technologies and or internetworks using any of wired wireless terrestrial microwave or satellite links and may include the public Internet.

In an embodiment each media device may host or execute one or more media device applications that are capable of accessing content distribution computer system and or playing media content items made available by content distribution computer system . For instance a media device application may be or comprise a web browser which a user may use to access a website hosted by content distribution computer system . Another example of a media device application may comprise a mobile application or app. For example an operator of content distribution computer system may provide a mobile app that is configured to execute on some or all of media devices and enables users to access components of content distribution computer system . Other examples of media device applications may include without limitation media player applications embedded software systems such as the APPLE IOS GOOGLE ANDROID or any of several other specialized operating systems. The media device applications may be a background process that conducts various activities such as described herein without directly interacting with the user. As yet another example a media device application may include a plug in or extension to another application such as to a media player or web browser.

In an embodiment a content distribution computer system includes one or more computers virtual machine instances and or data centers that are configured to host or execute one or more instances of application server s search engine s media transcoding cluster s and analytics component . Each of the components of content distribution computer system may be coupled together by one or more networks.

In an embodiment application server s are configured to receive and process requests from media devices relating to media content and other resources made available by an operator of content distribution computer system . Depending on the embodiment media content may include any of a variety of media content items such as digital video files digital music files installable computer game files or other software applications and so forth. An application server may be configured to communicate directly with web browsers and or other media device applications on the media devices to provide user interfaces for browsing available media content items and to provide users of the media devices access to media content items.

Each application server may be configured to process requests from one or more particular types of media device applications . For example one application server may comprise a web server that is configured to process requests sent by web browsers and other similar applications operating on media devices . Another example application server may comprise a server configured to process requests sent by mobile apps operating on the media devices . As described in more detail hereinafter an application server may process a request received from a media device in coordination with one or more other components of content distribution computer system and or device information identification computer system .

Search engine s are configured to receive search requests for media content items and to return search results comprising one or more listings of media content items satisfying a search query. A user of a media device may use a web browser or mobile app to generate a search query for media content items available from content distribution computer system for example related to baseball or movie trailers. An application server may receive a search request based on the user query and use a search engine to locate media content items satisfying the user s search query. In response to receiving a search request a media content search engine may return one or more references to media content items satisfying the search query which an application server may in turn format into search result listings returned to the user s media device . In other embodiments a media device may directly submit search requests and receive results from search engine .

Media transcoding clusters are configured to store retrieve and process media content that is accessible to users of content distribution computer system . In general a media transcoding cluster may be configured to receive requests from application servers for media content items to process the requested media content items for playback on a particular type of media device e.g. by transcoding a media content item to a format usable by the media device locating a media content item in a format usable by the media device etc. and to return the processed media content items to a requesting application server and or media device . In one embodiment a media transcoding cluster includes or is connected to one or more data repositories not depicted storing media content. The data repositories storing the media content may take any of a variety of forms such as file systems databases and so forth. A media transcoding cluster may also be coupled to one or more external services hosting media content and which may be accessible via one or more application programming interfaces APIs or other interfaces.

The data repositories of media transcoding clusters may further store metadata associated with the media content that describe various aspects of each individual item of media content. Example metadata may include content titles descriptions thumbnails categorical data digital rights management DRM data such as licensing constraints or decryption keys rendering information and so forth. For example an application server may use some or all of the metadata information to respond to playback requests from media device and a search engine may use some or all of the metadata to locate particular media content items in response to user search requests.

As indicated above a media transcoding cluster may be configured to process requested media content items based on a type of media device requesting the content. In one embodiment a media transcoding cluster processing requested media content may include transcoding the content. In general transcoding media content refers to a process for converting the media content from one from one encoding to another and may involve selection of one or more codecs to perform the transcoding. A codec generally refers to a device or computer program that is configured to encode and or decode the video and or audio components of the media content into a particular format. Depending on one or more request parameters a media transcoding cluster may use any of a number of different codecs to encode decode requested media content into particular formats each of which may be compatible with one or more types of media devices . Examples of requests parameters that may be sent to a media transcoding cluster include a specification of a particular video and or audio format a maximum minimum height and width for video content an indication of whether a requesting media device is capable of receiving streaming media content a bit rate for the media content and so forth. In an embodiment a media transcoding cluster may select a video codec separately from an audio codec or the video and audio may be encoded as part of the same codec.

As described above a content distribution computer system is configured to receive and process requests from a plurality of media devices . According to an embodiment a content distribution computer system may communicate with a device information identification computer system in order to identify a type of media device sending a request among other functionality described herein. A device information identification computer system includes one or more computers virtual machine instances and or data centers that are configured to host or execute one or more instances of an identification management application a profile data store a profile cache a device information collection component and device information editor .

Identification management application is configured to process requests from a content distribution computer system or other sources related to identifying a type of media device . As used herein a type of media device may be defined by any combination of one or more attributes of a media device including a manufacturer of the device a device model hardware and or software device specifications and so forth. As one particular example one type of media device may correspond to a BLACKBERRY CURVE smart phone another type of media device may correspond to an APPLE IPAD AIR 2 tablet computer yet another type of media device may correspond to a NINTENDO 3DS portable gaming device. As described in more detail hereinafter each type of media device may be associated with a device profile that provides information related to one or more characteristics of the device type.

In one embodiment an identification management application may comprise a web server that is configured to receive and process requests from other components of system including application servers of a media content distribution computer system . For example an identification management application may comprise a RESTful web service that is configured to receive and process such requests. Although depicts a device information identification computer system in communication with a content distribution computer system the device information identification computer system generally may provide an independent service that is accessible by any other device or system to identify media devices based on user agent strings and to obtain information related to the identified devices. For example a system that is configured to generate user interface displays may interface with the device information identification computer system to format requested user interface displays based on a particular type of requesting device. As another example a system that is configured to monitor network security may interface with the device information identification computer system to identify types of devices that are requesting resources from a particular computer network.

As indicated above each type of media device may be associated with a device profile that includes information about the media device type. For example each device profile may include information related to a device type s hardware specifications e.g. a type of processor storage capacity whether the device includes a touchscreen or other particular input components etc. software specifications e.g. a default operating system available user applications whether the device supports JavaScript HTML5 or other standards etc. and so forth. In one embodiment device profiles are stored in a data store and or a profile cache which may include one or more databases memory and or disk caches distributed data stores flat files etc. The types of information stored in a device profile for a particular device type may the same across profiles for other device types. For example some or all device profiles may include information that identifies a manufacturer of the device with which each device profile is associated. Each device profiles may also include one or more types of information is particular to only one or fewer than all of the device profiles stored in a profile cache . For example some types of information e.g. whether a device supports a particular streaming protocol codec etc. may be relevant only to newer types of devices and thus only those devices may include the information in an associated device profile.

In one embodiment in addition to information related to a media device type s hardware and software specifications a device profile may further include information about a media device type s capabilities relating to media content playback. For example a device profile for a particular media device type may include information indicating video and or audio formats supported by the device type a display screen size playable video dimensions which may or may be different from the device s display screen size whether the device type is capable of playing streaming media content etc.

In an embodiment information about the performance of various media device types in different geographic regions may be stored as part of the device profiles or separately from the device profiles. For example one type of media device may support streaming of media content in one geographic region but may not support streaming media content in another geographic region due to differences in wireless carriers or other geographic specific device specifications. Other information specific to various geographic regions may be stored for one or more device types such as types of network technologies supported in the region e.g. 3G LTE or other wireless communication technologies information about network performance in the region etc.

Device information collection component is configured to retrieve device information from one or more third party device information sources to interface with a device information editor and to store and or modify the device profile information in a data store . In an embodiment a device information collection component may for example be configured to access one or more third party resources that store media device information and to incorporate the information into the information stored in data store . A device information collection component may access the third party resources on a periodic basis in response to a user request for information related to particular media device type in response to a failure of identification management application to identify a requested media device type or at any other time.

Device information editor may be configured to provide one or more user interfaces that enable a system administrator or other user to add modify or remove device profile data stored in a data store . For example a device information editor may provide one or more web or other application interfaces that enable a user to view existing device profiles to modify information stored in existing device profiles or to add new device profiles.

For purposes of illustrating a clear example shows one or a limited number of each element that has been previously described and practical embodiments or commercial implementations of the techniques herein may use many instances of various elements. For example there may be thousands or millions of media devices distributed across many different geographic regions which provide access to a content distribution computer system via many different types of networks .

The arrangement of may implement a media content distribution system that includes a media device information identification solution. According to an embodiment a media content distribution system is configured to receive requests from a plurality of media devices to identify a type of media device sending each request and to retrieve a device profile for the identified type of media device from a device information identification computer system. By identifying a type of media device sending each request and retrieving a device profile for the identified media device type requested media content and other resources may be adapted for each media device type thereby facilitating access to the media content distribution system across a wide range of media device types.

In various embodiments as further described herein users of media devices can request media content and other resources using online portals provided by a content distribution computer system accessible using a web browser mobile app or other device application.

Such online portals generally may enable users to browse available media content and to request playback of particular media content items.

At block a media content distribution system receives a request from a media device. For example a media device may send a request to an application server of media content distribution computer system via network . The request may be generated by a media device application of a media device . If a media device application is a web browser for example a user may direct the web browser to a website associated with media content distribution computer system and provide additional input at the website such as a search request for media content items or a selection of one or more particular media content items for playback. As another example a user may use a mobile app developed by an operator of a content distribution computer system to browse available media content items and to request playback of content items of interest to the user. As yet another example a media device application may generate and send requests without user involvement for example to update a stored listing of available media content items or for any other purpose.

In an embodiment sending a request may include a media device application generating one or more messages that are communicated to an application server . Each message may include information related to the request such as a type of request an identification of a requested resource a time the request was sent and other information. As one example if the request is generated by a web browser operating on a media device the messages may conform to the HTTP application protocol and various information may be included in one or more header fields and other portions of the message as defined by the protocol. Messages formatted according to the HTTP application protocol may be processed for example by a web server and other types of application servers . Mobile apps and other types of media device applications may also generate requests based on the HTTP protocol or may instead use other types of message protocols.

According to an embodiment information included in a request generated by a media device application may comprise user agent identification data. In general user agent identification data may include one or more items of information that serve to identify a media device application and or a media device hosting the media device application including a type of user agent application an operating system hosted by the media device a software vendor and or version etc. In an embodiment user agent identification data may be included in one or more of the messages generated by the media device application and or any other part of a request. In the example of a request based on the HTTP protocol user agent identification information typically may be included in an HTTP header field referred to as the User Agent header field that is reserved for that purpose.

To illustrate one example of user agent identification data that may be included in a request sent from a media device assume that a user of an IPAD tablet computing device is using an instance of the FIREFOX web browser to request playback of a media content item available from media content distribution computer system . For example the user may direct the web browser to a website hosted by an application server and provide input at the website selecting a media content item for viewing. In response to receiving the user s input selecting the media content item the web browser software may generate an HTTP request that is sent to an application server . Among other information the request may for example include the following user agent identification data in the User Agent header field Mozilla 5.0 iPad CPU OS 6 0 like Mac OS X AppleWebKit 536.26 KHTML like Gecko Version 6.0 Mobile 10A5355d Safari 8536.25 .

The example user agent identification data illustrated above includes a number of tokens that provide information related to the user agent application e.g. Mozilla 5.0 indicating a version of the FIREFOX web browser software a type of device sending the request e.g. an iPad tablet among other information. As described in more detail in reference to all or portions of such a user agent identification data string may be used to identify a type of media device sending a request and to retrieve a corresponding device profile.

While standards exist for properly formatting a user agent string in the HTTP and other application protocols in general the developers of each media device application may determine what information that is included in each request. Thus while one media device application e.g. a mobile app may include extensive and detailed user agent identification data in each request another media device application e.g. a particular type of web browser may provide less detailed information. Various techniques for identifying a type of media device when less detailed or otherwise unrecognized user agent identification information is provided is described in reference to .

At block user agent identification data is extracted from the request. For example an application server receiving a request from a media device may extract the user agent identification data from the request. In general the location of the user agent identification data may depend on a number of factors including a type of request received a type of media device application sending the request and so forth. Referring again to the example of an HTTP request generated by a web browser user agent identification data typically may be extracted from one or more header fields e.g. a User Agent header field included in the request. Other types of requests may include user agent identification in other parts of the request. Extracting user agent identification request may also include extracting information from the request that is not specifically included in the request for the purpose of identifying a user agent application such as an IP address and other information that may provide information about a geographic location and or type of network from which request may have originated.

At block a request is sent for device information based on the extracted user agent identification data. For example subsequent to an application server extracting the user agent identification data from a request received from a media device the application server may send a request to an identification management application of a device information identification computer system for device information for the requesting media device. The request may include all or a portion of the user agent identification data extracted from the media device request at block .

In response to the request and based on the user agent identification data included in the request an identification management application may locate and return a device profile to the requesting application server or other component. The device profile generally may include information related to an identified type of media device corresponding to the media device from which the request sent to the application server originated. For example the device profile may include both device identifying information e.g. a device manufacturer model name etc. and device capability information e.g. operating system type screen size supported media content formats etc. . Techniques for identifying a type of media device based on user agent identification data and retrieving a corresponding device profile is described in greater detail hereinafter in reference to .

In an embodiment an application server or other component of a content distribution computer system may use a device profile retrieved for a requesting media device for a number of purposes. For example if the request received from a media device was a search request for media content items then in block the application server may retrieve search results for the media device based on the device profile. The application server may use the device profile for example to determine particular types and or formats of media content that are playable by the requesting media device and to request from a search engine media content results that include only media content items playable by the requesting media device . At block the application server may further format and send the customized search results to the requesting media device .

As another example if the request received from the media device is a request to playback a particular media content item then at block the requested media content item may be transcoded and otherwise formatted based on the device profile prior to sending the media content to the media device . For example an application server may retrieve and cause the requested media content item to be formatted in a particular way by sending a request for the media content item to a media transcoding cluster .

In an embodiment a request sent to a media transcoding cluster may identify the requested media content item and include one or more parameters related to options for formatting the requested media content item. An application server may select the parameters based on information included in the retrieved device profile. For example a particular device profile may include information indicating one or more media content formats playable by a device a maximum height and width of video content playable at the device and whether the device is capable of receiving and playing streaming video content etc. In an embodiment a media transcoding cluster receiving such a request may in turn use the parameters to retrieve the identified media content item from storage and perform one or more processing steps on the media content item. Example processing steps may include selecting and using one or more codecs to transcode the media content item into a particular video and or audio format scaling the media content to particular dimensions selecting a bit rate and transport protocol for sending the content item and or other performing other steps to optimize playback of the media content item by the requesting media device .

At block the media content item is sent to the media device for playback. For example an application server may receive the processed media content from a media transcoding cluster and send the media content item to the requesting media device or a media transcoding cluster may send the media content item directly to the media device . A user of the media device may then view the media content at the media device or at a display device connected to media device .

As indicated above a system may include a device information identification computer system that is configured to receive requests to identify a type of media device and to return a device profile for the identified type of media device. illustrates an example flow for determining a device profile for a media device sending a request to a content distribution computer system.

At block a request to identify a type of media device is received the request including user agent identification data. For example device information identification computer system may receive the request from an application server or other component of content distribution computer system . As indicated above an application server may send the request to the device information identification computer system in response to receiving a request from a media device . The user agent identification data included in the request may for example correspond to data extracted by an application server from a media device request as described in reference to block of .

At block based on the user agent identification data included in the request a device profile is located for the requesting media device. In one embodiment an identification management application may locate a device profile based on the user agent identification data by using the user agent identification or one or more portions thereof as a search key to search one or more profile caches and or data stores . If a device profile cannot be found further analysis of the user agent identification data may be performed including analyzing tokens contained the data and or using other techniques as described in more detail hereinafter in reference to .

In an embodiment as part of any of the steps for locating a device profile based on user agent identification data as described in and the user agent identification data may be transformed into a format more suitable for processing. For example if the user agent identification data includes a text string an identification management application may normalize the text string convert the text string to a hashed value or transform the data in any other manner.

At block it is determined whether a device profile corresponding to the user agent identification data is located in a profile cache. For example an identification management application may use the user agent identification data or portions thereof to search a profile cache for a corresponding device profile. If the user agent identification data includes a text string for example all or part of the text string may be used to search one or more mappings between text strings and device profiles stored in the profile cache . The mappings may represent for example known relationships between user agent identification strings and device profiles based on previous requests received or based on mapping information received from one or more external sources. If a mapping that includes the user agent identification data is located in the profile cache then at block a corresponding device profile or any portion of the device profile may be returned to the requesting component of a content distribution computer system .

In an embodiment an identification management application may be configured to store recently accessed user agent identification data to device profile mappings in a profile cache . By storing recently accessed mappings in a profile cache popular types of media devices that frequently access a content distribution computer system may be readily identified by an identification management application .

At block if a device profile for the received user agent identification data is not located in a profile cache it is determined whether a device profile is located in a profile data store. For example similar to the process for locating a device profile in a profile cache identification management application may use some or all of the user agent identification data as a search key and or to generate one or more queries to locate any corresponding mappings between user agent identification data and device profiles stored in a data store . In an embodiment relative to a profile cache a data store may represent a more comprehensive collection of stored user agent identification data to device profile mappings.

If a device profile is located in the data store identification management application may send the device profile or one or more portions thereof to the application server or other component of content distribution computer system requesting the device profile. As indicated above identification management application may also store the recently accessed user agent identification data to device profile mapping in the profile cache in order to improve the response time of subsequent requests based on the same or similar user agent identification data.

If a device profile based on the received user agent identification data is not located in either a profile cache or in data store then in block the user agent identification data may be further analyzed to identify a device profile as described in further detail below in reference to . A device profile may not be located in either a profile cache or data store for example because the media device application sending the original request is an application that has not previously accessed the content distribution computer system or because a previously recognizable media device application has changed the format of the user agent identification included in requests possibly due to a software upgrade or other change to functioning of the user agent.

In one embodiment in response to a request to identify a particular media device a device information identification computer system may return additional information about the operation of a media device based on other aspects of a request. For example an identification management application may be configured to analyze one or more attributes of a media device request e.g. an IP address included GPS information or other information and to determine a geographic region from which a media device is sending the request. Based on a geographic region determined for a particular requesting media device an identification management application may modify or supplement information included a device profile to account for regional differences such as network capabilities device restrictions and so forth. An application server may use this information for example as part of determining how to format media content or other resources returned to the requesting media device .

In an embodiment other attributes of a request such as those described above may also be used to disambiguate user agent identification data that may not uniquely identify a media device type. For example some media device applications are capable of operating on two or more types of media devices but may produce user agent identification data that is indistinguishable from one device type to another. Thus based on the user agent identification data alone an identification management application may be unable to distinguish whether a request generated by the user agent application originates from one type of media device or another. However in an embodiment an identification management application may use certain other request attributes such as an IP address to better identify a media device type. For example one type of media device may be known to send requests through a set of servers having a set or range of known IP addresses which may be used to identify the media device type. As another example some media device types may be associated with particular geographic regions and attributes of a request identifying a particular geographic region may be used to identify a device type.

As indicated above in reference to block of requests to identify a type of media device may include user agent identification data that is unrecognized by a device information identification system. For example an identification management application may receive a request including user agent identification data which the application is unable to use to locate a corresponding device profile in either a profile cache or data store . User agent identification data may not be recognized for example because a media device and or media device application that created the user agent identification data is sending a request for the first time because a media device application creating the identification data has been updated or modified or for any other reason. According to an embodiment a device information identification system may be configured to parse and analyze unrecognized user agent identification data to determine an existing device profile that may be suitable for the device or to create a new device profile for the device type.

At block unrecognized user agent identification data is received. As described above in reference to block of the user agent identification data may be received as part of a request to identify a type of media device. The identification management application may determine that the user agent identification data is unrecognized based on the system not locating the user agent identification data in one or more profile caches and or data stores .

At block the unrecognized user agent identification data may be normalized. For example if the user agent identification data includes text data an identification management application may normalize the text data by removing extraneous mark up characters removing extraneous spacing or modifying other elements in the text data that are not useful for analyzing the data.

At blocks A and B the user agent identification data is searched for the presence of one or more keywords. In an embodiment each of the keywords may be associated with an existing device profile and the existence of one or more defined keywords in the user agent identification data may indicate that the user agent identification data is associated with the existing device profile. The keywords may also be used as search parameters to search one or more external resources for device information as described in more detail below.

At block A the user agent identification data is searched for one or more keywords corresponding to device manufacturer and or model names e.g. a manufacturer and or model name of the media device generating the request etc. . Similarly at block B the user agent identification data is searched for one or more keywords corresponding to platform and software version information e.g. a type and version of operating system installed on the device a type and version of client application generating the request etc. .

At block if an existing device profile is not located based on the identified keywords one or more external device information resources may be queried using the identified keywords as search parameters. For example a device information collection component may be configured to access and collect information from one or more external websites databases or other resources that include information about media devices. The collected information may be stored as part of one or more existing device profiles in data store or used to create one or more new device profiles.

In one embodiment a device information collection component may collect media device identification information from one or more social networking channels. For example if an identification management application is unable to identify a media device type in or in order to confirm an identification a user of a media device may be prompted to complete a survey via a social networking or other website. For example a device information collection component may cause a URL to be sent to a media device that includes a survey requesting the user to identify a type of the media device . In response to receiving the user s input a mapping is stored.

At block it is determined whether the pattern of keywords identified in the unrecognized user agent identification data is unique relative to the existing profiles stored in profile cache and or data stores . A unique pattern of keywords for example ensures that identification management application is able to map future occurrences of the same user agent identification data to the appropriate device profile information. The identification management application may determine if the pattern of keywords is unique by searching existing device profiles in the profile cache and or data store to determine if any existing user agent identification associated with a device profile uses the same pattern of keywords. At block based on searching the existing device profiles the uniqueness of the keyword pattern is determined. If it is determined that the pattern of keywords is unique than at block the pattern is stored in association with the device profile information collected for the particular device. If it is determined that the pattern of keywords is not unique then at block the pattern may be discarded or modified to create a unique pattern.

As described above a media content distribution system may be configured to identify types of media devices accessing the system and to respond to requests for media content items and other resources by formatting the requested resources based on the identified type of media device. As a result once the content distribution system is able to correctly identify a particular media device type and provide media devices of that type with compatible content network traffic for the particular media device type is expected to increase or remain relatively stable. However situations may arise where a device profile provides incorrect information for a particular type of media device for example because the device profile contains incorrect information about the device or because the type of media device is mapped to the wrong device profile. In such situations users of the particular media device type may be unable to access media content and other service resources for example because the content is sent in a format that is not capable of playback or rendering on the devices and network traffic from the media devices may suddenly decrease.

In order to address these and other issues a media content distribution system may be configured to monitor media device interactions with the system and to perform one or more corrective actions in response to detecting a significant decrease in network traffic from one or more particular media device types. According to one embodiment network traffic information and other usage data for each type of media device requesting content may be collected and analyzed to detect anomalies in traffic which may in turn be used to identify possible device profile mismatches for correction.

At block requests for media content items and or other resources are received from a plurality of media device types. For example one or more application servers of a content distribution computer system may receive requests from a plurality of media devices including media devices of different types. The requests may include requests to view one or more webpages search requests for media content items requests to playback particular media content items or any other type of requests.

At block information related to network traffic for each media device type is collected and stored. In this context network traffic refers to any aspect of communication between media devices and a content distribution computer system via networks . For example the network traffic information collected may include a number of requests for webpages hosted by one or more application server information about requests for media content items information about a duration with which users of media devices view particular webpages and or media content items network latency information etc.

At block an anomaly in the network traffic pattern for a particular media device type is detected. For example an analytics component of a content distribution computer system may continuously or periodically analyze the network traffic data collected for a plurality of media device types to detect significant changes in the amount of network traffic received from particular types of media devices . A significant decrease in an amount of network traffic detected for a particular type of media device may for example indicate that the particular type of media device is experiencing technical issues viewing media content or other resources received from the content distribution computer system . In an embodiment a significant decrease in network traffic may be measured in relation to a configurable threshold value for example a certain percentage decrease in network traffic or a total volume decrease amount.

In one embodiment detecting an anomaly in the network traffic pattern for a particular media device type may include detecting a disparity between a number of requests for webpages and a number of requests to view media content items. Such a disparity may indicate for example that users of the type of media device are able to access and view the content provider s website but may be experiencing difficulty playing back the media content items on the users devices. The difficulty playing back the media content items for example may be a result of incorrect information in a device profile about media content formats that are playable on that particular type of media device or other user agent identification to device profile mapping issues.

At block in response to detecting an anomaly in the network traffic pattern for a particular type of media device one or more modifications may be made to a device profile associated with the particular media device type. As indicated above a significant decrease in a particular media device type s traffic patterns may indicate an inability of the media device type to playback video on the devices or otherwise access the media content distribution system. Thus one or more modifications may be made to a device profile associated with the media device type in order to correct any compatibility issues.

In one embodiment modifying a device profile in response to detecting a network traffic pattern anomaly may include generating an alert message or other indication to an administrator or other user that a possible device profile issue exists. For example an alert message may be presented in a device information editor and the device information editor may further provide one or more interfaces that enable a user to modify one or more attributes of a device profile in an attempt to correct issues the particular media device type may be experiencing. For example a user may modify information in a particular device profile related to supported media content formats streaming capabilities and or other attributes based on the user s estimation of the device type s actual capabilities. As another example a user may modify an association between one or more particular user agent identification data elements and device profiles so that future requests including the particular data elements are associated with a different device profile.

In one embodiment in response to detecting a network traffic pattern anomaly for a particular media device type a device information editor analytics component or other component of system may automatically modify a device profile for the media device type. For example in one embodiment an analytics component may comprise an expert system that is configured to modify one or more device profiles in response to detecting network traffic anomalies. After a modification to a device profile is made an analytics component may continue to collect and analyze network traffic patterns to determine whether the modifications were successful in stabilizing network traffic patterns for the particular media device type. If the network traffic patterns for the media device type do not improve another modification to the device profile may be made and so forth until an improvement is detected. In this manner an analytics component may use a feedback loop to self correct any issues that may arise from a misidentification of a media device type or other issues with one or more device profiles.

In an embodiment an apparatus comprises a processor and is configured to perform any of the foregoing methods.

In an embodiment a non transitory computer readable storage medium storing software instructions which when executed by one or more processors cause performance of any of the foregoing methods.

Note that although separate embodiments are discussed herein any combination of embodiments and or partial embodiments discussed herein may be combined to form further embodiments.

According to one embodiment the techniques described herein are implemented by one or more special purpose computing devices. The special purpose computing devices may be hard wired to perform the techniques or may include digital electronic devices such as one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs or field programmable gate arrays FPGAs that are persistently programmed to perform the techniques or may include one or more general purpose hardware processors programmed to perform the techniques pursuant to program instructions in firmware memory other storage or a combination. Such special purpose computing devices may also combine custom hard wired logic ASICs or FPGAs with custom programming to accomplish the techniques. The special purpose computing devices may be desktop computer systems portable computer systems handheld devices networking devices or any other device that incorporates hard wired and or program logic to implement the techniques.

For example is a block diagram that illustrates a computer system upon which an embodiment of the invention may be implemented. Computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information and a hardware processor coupled with bus for processing information. Hardware processor may be for example a general purpose microprocessor.

Computer system also includes a main memory such as a random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device coupled to bus for storing information and instructions to be executed by processor . Main memory also may be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions to be executed by processor . Such instructions when stored in non transitory storage media accessible to processor render computer system into a special purpose machine that is customized to perform the operations specified in the instructions.

Computer system further includes a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to bus for storing static information and instructions for processor . A storage device such as a magnetic disk or optical disk is provided and coupled to bus for storing information and instructions.

Computer system may be coupled via bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT for displaying information to a computer user. An input device including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to bus for communicating information and command selections to processor . Another type of user input device is cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to processor and for controlling cursor movement on display . This input device typically has two degrees of freedom in two axes a first axis e.g. x and a second axis e.g. y that allows the device to specify positions in a plane.

Computer system may implement the techniques described herein using customized hard wired logic one or more ASICs or FPGAs firmware and or program logic which in combination with the computer system causes or programs computer system to be a special purpose machine. According to one embodiment the techniques herein are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions may be read into main memory from another storage medium such as storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in main memory causes processor to perform the process steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions.

The term storage media as used herein refers to any non transitory media that store data and or instructions that cause a machine to operation in a specific fashion. Such storage media may comprise non volatile media and or volatile media. Non volatile media includes for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as main memory . Common forms of storage media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk solid state drive magnetic tape or any other magnetic data storage medium a CD ROM any other optical data storage medium any physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM NVRAM any other memory chip or cartridge.

Storage media is distinct from but may be used in conjunction with transmission media. Transmission media participates in transferring information between storage media. For example transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infra red data communications.

Various forms of media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to processor for execution. For example the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk or solid state drive of a remote computer. The remote computer can load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to computer system can receive the data on the telephone line and use an infra red transmitter to convert the data to an infra red signal. An infra red detector can receive the data carried in the infra red signal and appropriate circuitry can place the data on bus . Bus carries the data to main memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor .

Computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link that is connected to a local network . For example communication interface may be an integrated services digital network ISDN card cable modem satellite modem or a modem to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links may also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information.

Network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to data equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP in turn provides data communication services through the world wide packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet . Local network and Internet both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams. The signals through the various networks and the signals on network link and through communication interface which carry the digital data to and from computer system are example forms of transmission media.

Computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s network link and communication interface . In the Internet example a server might transmit a requested code for an application program through Internet ISP local network and communication interface . The received code may be executed by processor as it is received and or stored in storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution.

In an embodiment some or all of the systems described herein may be or comprise server computer systems including one or more server computer devices that collectively implement various components of the system as a set of server side processes. The server computer systems may include web server application server database server and or other conventional server components that the depicted components utilize to provide the described functionality. The server computer systems may receive network based communications comprising input data from any of a variety of sources including without limitation user operated client computing devices such as desktop computers tablets or smartphones remote sensing devices and or other server computer systems.

In an embodiment certain server components may be implemented in full or in part using cloud based components that are coupled to the systems by one or more networks such as the Internet. The cloud based components may expose interfaces by which they provide processing storage software and or other resources to other components of the systems. In an embodiment the cloud based components may be implemented by third third party entities on behalf of another entity for whom the components are deployed. In other embodiments however the described systems may be implemented entirely by computer systems owned and operated by a single entity.

As used herein the terms first second certain and particular are used as naming conventions to distinguish queries plans representations steps objects devices or other items from each other so that these items may be referenced after they have been introduced. Unless otherwise specified herein the use of these terms does not imply an ordering timing or any other characteristic of the referenced items.

In the foregoing specification embodiments of the invention have been described with reference to numerous specific details that may vary from implementation to implementation. Thus the sole and exclusive indicator of what is the invention and is intended by the applicants to be the invention is the set of claims that issue from this application in the specific form in which such claims issue including any subsequent correction. In this regard although specific claim dependencies are set out in the claims of this application it is to be noted that the features of the dependent claims of this application may be combined as appropriate with the features of other dependent claims and with the features of the independent claims of this application and not merely according to the specific dependencies recited in the set of claims

Any definitions expressly set forth herein for terms contained in such claims shall govern the meaning of such terms as used in the claims. Hence no limitation element property feature advantage or attribute that is not expressly recited in a claim should limit the scope of such claim in any way. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

In the foregoing specification embodiments of the invention have been described with reference to numerous specific details that may vary from implementation to implementation. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The sole and exclusive indicator of the scope of the invention and what is intended by the applicants to be the scope of the invention is the literal and equivalent scope of the set of claims that issue from this application in the specific form in which such claims issue including any subsequent correction.

In the appended claims any clause element or limitation of a claim that does not include the words means for is not intended to invoke or to be construed under 35 U.S.C. 112 f . In the appended claims any clause element or limitation that is expressed as a thing for performing or configured to perform a specified function without the recital of structure material or acts in support thereof is intended to be construed to cover the corresponding structure material or acts described in the specification and any other structure material or acts that were known or in use as of the priority date to which this patent document is entitled or reasonably foreseeable to those of ordinary skill in the art in view of the disclosure as a whole herein and equivalents thereof.

