---

title: Home audio video display device (AVDD) as sensor monitor
abstract: Method, computer storage device, and system that establish communication with at least first and second sensors, receive information from the sensors, and determine whether the information from the first sensor satisfies a first alert threshold. It is also determined whether the information from the second sensor satisfies a second alert threshold. Responsive to a determination that the information from the first sensor satisfies the first alert threshold and that the information from the second sensor does not satisfy the second alert threshold, an alert signal is not generated. On the other hand, responsive to a determination that the information from the first sensor satisfies the first alert threshold and that the information from the second sensor satisfies the second alert threshold, the alert signal is generated for output thereof to a display device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09473728&OS=09473728&RS=09473728
owner: SONY CORPORATION
number: 09473728
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20150113
---
The present application relates generally to the use of home audio video display devices AVDD such as TVs as sensor monitors.

Current sensors such as household environmental sensors light sensors and motion sensors typically have individual displays associated with each sensor to display data from each sensor. Present principles recognize that the displays are often small and or low quality making the displays difficult to read understand and ascertain useful information from among other things.

Also understood herein the displays are typically positioned in close proximity to its respective sensor such that multiple displays associated with different sensors are often not located in the same general location of e.g. a personal residence. Thus a need has arisen to aggregate the information produced by one or more sensors in a single location for convenient viewing rather than requiring multiple displays scattered in different locations to the display data and or information and thereby making monitoring of the data and or information from the sensors burdensome.

An audio video display device AVDD system includes a display and a processor controlling the display. The AVDD also includes a computer readable storage medium accessible to the processor and programmed with instructions that cause the processor to establish communication with at least one sensor. The instructions also cause the processor to receive information from the sensor conforming to an application programming interface API provided by a manufacturer of the AVDD to an entity affiliated with the sensor or sent from the AVDD to the sensor and then present the information from the sensor on the display in accordance with the API.

If desired the API can define relative to the information from the sensor content in the information from the sensor to be presented on the display where the content is to be presented on the display and when the content is to be presented on the display. As indicated above in some embodiments the API may be provided by a manufacturer of the AVDD to an entity affiliated with the sensor while in other embodiments API may be sent from the AVDD to the sensor. Even further in some embodiments the API is sent from the AVDD to the sensor only in response to a viewer input command.

In accordance with present principles the sensors may be selected though not required to be exclusively selected from a group of sensors consisting of environmental sensors ambient light sensors door position sensors window covering position sensors pool heater energization sensors motion sensors and valve position sensors. Though present principles are described in reference to a personal residential environment it is to be understood that the same principles may be applied to sensors and monitoring equipment in. e.g. a hospital or a public security environment as well.

If desired the content can include alpha numeric information only an icon only or both an icon and alpha numeric information. Moreover in some embodiments the system also includes the sensor. The sensor includes a processor accessing the API and sending the information to the AVDD in accordance with the API.

In another aspect a method includes establishing communication between an audio video display device AVDD including a display and at least one sensor. The method then includes receiving information from the sensor s conforming to an application programming interface API provided by a manufacturer of the AVDD to an entity affiliated with the sensor s or sent from the AVDD to the sensor s . According to the method the information from the sensor s is then presented on the display in accordance with the API.

In yet another aspect an audio video display device includes a display and a processor controlling the display. The device also includes a computer readable storage medium accessible to the processor and programmed with instructions that cause the processor to establish communication with at least one sensor. The instructions then cause the processor to receive information from the sensor s conforming to a software interface understandable by the AVDD. Thereafter the instructions cause the processor to present the information from the sensor s on the display in accordance with the interface.

In other aspects multiple sensors are monitored simultaneously to determine if an event has occurred e.g. a combination of medical sensors or home automation sensors indicating sound movement etc. that suggests a break in . A system according to present principles may re send the sensor information to the cloud to either facilitate processing or to be made available to a third party for monitoring the sensor data parents concerned about a child s security home security company medical professionals etc. .

The details of the present invention both as to its structure and operation can best be understood in reference to the accompanying drawings in which like reference numerals refer to like parts and in which 

Referring initially to a block diagram of an example system including an audio video display device AVDD communicating with several example sensors for presenting information from the sensors on the AVDD is shown. It is to be understood that an AVDD in accordance with present principles may be a home AVDD such as but not limited to a TV. In some embodiments the TV may further be an Internet TV. Notwithstanding the foregoing it is to be further understood that still other audio video display devices may be used in accordance with present principles such as smart phones tablet computers notebook computers other types of computers etc.

Thus a non limiting system includes an audio video display device AVDD . The AVDD includes a TV tuner that receives TV programming and or data and or content for presentation on the AVDD . Further the TV tuner communicates with a processor accessing a tangible computer readable storage medium such as but not limited to disk based or solid state storage. It is to be understood that the processor can execute logic in accordance with present principles. The AVDD may also include a non limiting TV signal input allowing the AVDD to connect to e.g. a television head end cable communication link or satellite communication link for receiving TV programming and or data or content for presentation on the AVDD . Additionally the AVDD can output audio on one or more speakers .

Continuing in reference to it is to be understood that the AVDD can connect to the Internet using an internet interface such as built in wired or wireless modem that communicates with the processor to e.g. send and receive data over the internet I or receive streaming video. Without limitation the Internet interface may be a Wi Fi interface. Wireless telephony interfaces may also be used. The Internet I includes computers typically servers and data storage along with communication switches.

Regardless of the source of the content video is presented under control of the processor on a display such as a high definition TV HDTV flat panel display. In some embodiments the display may be a touch screen display. Also user commands to the processor may be wirelessly received from a remote commander RC using e.g. RF or infrared.

The AVDD shown in also has a sensor communication interface that communicates with the processor to execute the functions and logic in accordance with present principles among other things. It is to be understood that the sensor communication interface can also establish communication with one or more communication interfaces of respective sensors in accordance with present principles. therefore shows various exemplary sensors with respective communication interfaces for communicating with the sensor communication interface of the AVDD .

Thus an irrigation valve position sensor assembly includes a communication interface that can communicate with the sensor communication interface to send information sensed or gathered or the like by a valve position sensor . Note that while the interfaces are shown as separate components in addition to the Internet interface it is to be understood that the communication interfaces between the AVDD and the sensors may be via Internet interfaces such as Wi Fi interfaces. Or the interfaces may be short range interfaces such as sonic interfaces IR interfaces or Bluetooth interfaces. Thus information from the sensors herein may be sent to the cloud e.g. Internet I to facilitate processing of the sensor data and then sent back to the AVDD and or to facilitate making the data available to a third party for monitoring of the data and providing output signals and alarms to e.g. wireless computing devices of parents for home child security medical professionals etc.

The information pertains to the operation and or status of one or more irrigation valves . The valve position sensor assembly also includes a processor communicating with the communication interface . In non limiting embodiments the processor may cause the valve position sensor to sense and or gather information regarding the operation of the irrigation valves and or may receive information from the valve position sensor regarding the operation of the irrigation valves . If desired the processor may store the information from the valve position sensor on a storage medium . Regardless of whether the information is stored on the storage medium the processor being in communication with the communication interface can provide the information from the valve position sensor to the communication interface and cause the communication interface to send the information to the sensor communication interface of the AVDD so that the AVDD can present the information.

It is to be understood that the assemblies and include respective processors and for causing each assembly s respective sensor to sense gather and or receive information from the respective sensor in accordance with present principles. The respective processors and also communicate with respective sensor communication interfaces and in accordance with present principles to send information sensed gathered and or received or the like from each assembly s respective sensor to the sensor communication interface of the AVDD for presentation thereon. It is to be understood that the communication interfaces referenced herein including the interfaces and may support and or include a universal serial bus USB connection wired TCP IP WiFi TCP IP and or built in RF transceivers such as ZWAVE ZigBee etc. in non limiting embodiments. Furthermore if desired the respective processors and of the assemblies and may store the information from the respective sensors on respective storage mediums and .

One or more biometric sensors may also be provided and may send signals representing biometric parameters of a person to the AVDD. A biometric sensor typically may include a processor P computer memory M and communication interface CI according to principles above. Non limiting examples of biometric sensors include heart rate sensors temperature sensors blood pressure sensors blood sugar sensors and the like.

Moving now to a flow chart of example logic an AVDD such as the AVDD executes in accordance with present principles is shown. Beginning with block in an example embodiment one or more sensors such as the irrigation valve sensor or the pool heater sensor referenced above can be discovered through device discovery principles known in the art although in other embodiments a user can enter sensor communication information into the AVDD to establish communications manually. E.g. the sensors may be discovered based on wireless signals emitted by a sensor within a particular radius of a given location such as a personal residence. Moving from block to block the logic prompts a user of the AVDD to decide to connect to the one or more sensors that were discovered at block . If the user provides input e.g. via a remote commander such as the RC described above in response to the prompt commanding the AVDD to connect to the discovered sensors the logic continues to block .

At block the logic pushes and or provides an application programming interface API from the AVDD to the sensor s . However it is to be understood that in some embodiments the API may be provided by a manufacturer of the AVDD to an entity affiliated with the sensor s in accordance with present principles rather than having the AVDD push the API to the sensors. In such an embodiment the sensor s and or their processors are already capable of providing information in the desired API when the sensor is discovered back at block . Thus in non limiting embodiments an entity affiliated with the sensor s may be e.g. a sensor manufacturer vending sensor s already being able to provide information in the appropriate API. In other instances e.g. an entity affiliated with the sensor may be a third party such as a sensor technician that provides and or pushes the API to the sensor when installing the sensor at a particular location and thus prior to being discovered by the AVDD in accordance with present principles .

Continuing in reference to at block the logic receives information back from the sensor s . Concluding at block the information from the sensor s is displayed on the AVDD in accordance with the API.

Thus it is to be understood that one or more sensors such as but not limited to the sensors described herein include respective processors accessing the API and sending the information to an AVDD such as the AVDD in accordance with the API. To reiterate sensors in accordance with present principles may include but are not limited to environmental sensors ambient light sensors such as photodiodes in monitored rooms or areas door position sensors window covering position sensors pool heater energization sensors motion sensors such as the motion sensor s described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 755 052 incorporated herein by reference valve position sensors biometric sensors and or other sensors including simple switch sensors.

Now referring to a schematic diagram showing a data structure of an exemplary API that may be pushed and or provided by the AVDD to various sensors automatically when the viewer selects to connect to discovered sensors or that may be published by a manufacturer of the AVDD to sensor manufacturers so that the sensor manufacturers may pre program their sensors with the API is shown. It is to be understood that the API defines relative to the information from the sensor content in the information from the sensor to be presented on a display of an AVDD such as the display referenced above. In some embodiments the API also defines when and where the content is to be presented on the display.

Thus as may be appreciated from a data structure includes various parameters such as whether an icon from a sensor should be presented whether an icon from an AVDD such as the AVDD should be presented and or whether alpha numeric information from the sensor should be presented. Accordingly content parameters can include types of content to be presented such as one or more icons and or alpha numeric information. Furthermore in some embodiments the content may include e.g. only one icon or only alpha numeric information. As may also be appreciated from the data structure may also include parameters regarding where and or how content should be presented. For example content may be presented in a full screen mode such that only the content is displayed or in e.g. a bottom portion of the display or a top portion of the display such that the content may be simultaneously displayed with unrelated content such as a television program or motion picture.

In addition to the above the data structure may also include parameters regarding when the content from the sensors should be presented. For example content may be presented only upon receipt of the content or information and or receipt of a message containing the content and or information. Accordingly in non limiting embodiments extensible markup language XML messaging may be used such that e.g. the XML is used to encapsulate the content information and or message. Alternatively or in addition to the above content may be presented at predetermined intervals such as e.g. every 5 minutes or every hour. Thus shows that the data structure includes a parameter for both presenting content upon receipt and at least one reminder such as five minutes after the content is received. If desired reminders can also be repeatedly presented at predetermined intervals. Furthermore in some embodiments audio alerts and or audible content pertaining to information and or content received from the sensor s may be presented on the AVDD through e.g. the speakers in lieu of or in addition to presentation of visual content.

Now in reference to illustrative exemplary screen shots from an AVDD presenting information and or content from various sensors such as those referenced above are shown. Thus shows that live video may be displayed along with a visual indication on the bottom portion of a display such as the display referenced above that an irrigation system such as lawn sprinklers is on being based on information received from a valve position sensor. shows that live video may be displayed along with a visual indication on the bottom portion of the display that window blinds are opening being based on information received from a window coverings position sensor. shows that live video may be displayed along with a visual indication on the bottom portion of the display that a pool heater is on being based on information received from a pool heater sensor. shows that live video may be displayed along with a visual indication on the bottom portion of the display of non limiting environmental statistics such as temperature and humidity levels being based on information received from an environment sensor. shows that a visual indication may be presented on the display indicating e.g. an intruder alert based on the motion of a person sensed by a motion sensor.

Continuing in reference to the exemplary screen shots disclosed herein. shows that live video may be displayed along with a visual indication on the bottom portion of the display that the garage door of the residence where the AVDD is disposed is opening being based on information received from a door position sensor. Concluding with live video may be displayed along with a visual indication including an icon on the bottom portion of the display that a light has been turned on in another room of a personal residence in which the AVDD is disposed being based on information received from a light sensor.

Additionally note that a user of an AVDD such as the AVDD may choose whether or not to display information and or content from the sensors in accordance with present principles. Thus for example a user interface may be presented on the AVDD allowing a user to enable presentation of the information and or content from one or more sensors or to disable presentation of the information and or content. Furthermore it is to be understood that one AVDD presenting information and or content may e.g. using Internet capabilities forward the information and or content to other AVDDs for presentation thereon. Thus for example an AVDD such as a TV may present a user interface to a user allowing the user to forward information and or content from one or more sensors from the TV to the user s laptop computer or smart phone so that the information and or content may still be monitored by a user when not viewing the TV.

Furthermore the HAP or a sensor or the AVDD or a cloud server can aggregate data from multiple sensors and provide that aggregated data to the AVDD . For example the HAP may provide to the AVDD for display data indicating that a thermostat has reached a threshold and is activating a climate control unit such as a heater or air conditioner in response as indicated by a climate control sensor that the fan associated with the unit is at a particular speed as indicated by a fan speed sensor and that the current room temperature as sensed by a temperature sensor is at a particular value. In essence the HAP correlates input from different but related sensors and provides that input to the AVDD for convenient simultaneous presentation of the various inputs from the different but related sensors. Furthermore the provision of the HAP facilitates the AVDD working with legacy sensors that may not have the capability to execute the API discussed above but that can communicate with the HAP using legacy protocols different from the above discussed API with the HAP then communicating with the AVDD using the above discussed API.

In some examples one or more of the devices above e.g. the HAP or AVDD monitor plural sensors as described and output an event only if two or more sensor outputs meet event criteria. For example a sound sensor and a motion sensor may both output signals representing the presence of moving humans and animals and an event intruder alert may be generated only responsive to both sensor signals indicating an intruder i.e. only in response to the sound sensor outputting a signal indicating noise or human speech above or below a threshold and the motion sensor indicating a moving object. Responsive to only one sensor outputting a signal indicating an intruder the intruder alert may not be presented e.g. on the AVDD in audible and or visible form. The intruder alert may be sent to the cloud Internet for provisioning of the alert to e.g. a wireless device registered in the cloud to the owner of the premises in which the sensors are disposed and or to law enforcement agencies.

As a further example a medical alert may be generated by e.g. the HAP or AVDD responsive to two or more biometric sensors outputting signals satisfying a medical alert threshold but not responsive to only a single biometric sensor outputting such a signal. For example a medical alert may be output locally and or to the cloud responsive to two or more biometric sensors outputting signals satisfying alert thresholds. Thus a medical alert may be generated only responsive to both a heart rate sensor indicating a pulse in excess of a threshold and a temperature in excess of a threshold but not responsive to only a single biometric sensor outputting a signal indicating a medical emergency.

On the other hand if the AVDD does not accept sensor communication at decision diamond the logic flows to block in which the sensor waits in standby for future instructions if any from the AVDD.

While the particular HOME AUDIO VIDEO DISPLAY DEVICE AVDD AS SENSOR MONITOR is herein shown and described in detail it is to be understood that the subject matter which is encompassed by the present invention is limited only by the claims.

