---

title: Devices, systems, and methods and associated display screens for assessment of vessels
abstract: Devices, systems, and methods for visually depicting a vessel and evaluating treatment options are disclosed. The methods can include obtaining pressure measurements from first and second instruments positioned within a vessel of a patient while the second instrument is moved longitudinally through the vessel from a first position to a second position and the first instrument remains stationary within the vessel; and outputting a visual representation of the pressure measurements obtained by the first and second instruments on a display, the output visual representation including a graphical display of a pressure ratio of the obtained pressure measurements and at least a portion of a pressure waveform of the obtained pressure measurements identifying a diagnostic period utilized in calculating the pressure ratio.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09364153&OS=09364153&RS=09364153
owner: Koninklijke Philips N.V.
number: 09364153
owner_city: Amsterdam
owner_country: NL
publication_date: 20150428
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. Ser. No. 14 627 441 filed on Feb. 20 2015 which claims priority to and the benefit of the U.S. Provisional Patent Application Nos. 61 942 338 filed Feb. 20 2014 and 61 943 168 filed Feb. 21 2014 which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The present disclosure relates generally to the assessment of vessels and in particular the assessment of the severity of a blockage or other restriction to the flow of fluid through a vessel. Aspects of the present disclosure are particularly suited for evaluation of biological vessels in some instances. For example some particular embodiments of the present disclosure are specifically configured for the evaluation of a stenosis of a human blood vessel.

A currently accepted technique for assessing the severity of a stenosis in a blood vessel including ischemia causing lesions is fractional flow reserve FFR . FFR is a calculation of the ratio of a distal pressure measurement taken on the distal side of the stenosis relative to a proximal pressure measurement taken on the proximal side of the stenosis . FFR provides an index of stenosis severity that allows determination as to whether the blockage limits blood flow within the vessel to an extent that treatment is required. The normal value of FFR in a healthy vessel is 1.00 while values less than about 0.80 are generally deemed significant and require treatment. Common treatment options include angioplasty and stenting.

Coronary blood flow is unique in that it is affected not only by fluctuations in the pressure arising proximally as in the aorta but is also simultaneously affected by fluctuations arising distally in the microcirculation. Accordingly it is not possible to accurately assess the severity of a coronary stenosis by simply measuring the fall in mean or peak pressure across the stenosis because the distal coronary pressure is not purely a residual of the pressure transmitted from the aortic end of the vessel. As a result for an effective calculation of FFR within the coronary arteries it is necessary to reduce the vascular resistance within the vessel. Currently pharmacological hyperemic agents such as adenosine are administered to reduce and stabilize the resistance within the coronary arteries. These potent vasodilator agents reduce the dramatic fluctuation in resistance predominantly by reducing the microcirculation resistance associated with the systolic portion of the heart cycle to obtain a relatively stable and minimal resistance value.

However the administration of hyperemic agents is not always possible or advisable. First the clinical effort of administering hyperemic agents can be significant. In some countries particularly the United States hyperemic agents such as adenosine are expensive and time consuming to obtain when delivered intravenously IV . In that regard IV delivered adenosine is generally mixed on a case by case basis in the hospital pharmacy. It can take a significant amount of time and effort to get the adenosine prepared and delivered to the operating area. These logistic hurdles can impact a physician s decision to use FFR. Second some patients have contraindications to the use of hyperemic agents such as asthma severe COPD hypotension bradycardia low cardiac ejection fraction recent myocardial infarction and or other factors that prevent the administration of hyperemic agents. Third many patients find the administration of hyperemic agents to be uncomfortable which is only compounded by the fact that the hyperemic agent may need to be applied multiple times during the course of a procedure to obtain FFR measurements. Fourth the administration of a hyperemic agent may also require central venous access e.g. a central venous sheath that might otherwise be avoided. Finally not all patients respond as expected to hyperemic agents and in some instances it is difficult to identify these patients before administration of the hyperemic agent.

Accordingly there remains a need for improved devices systems and methods for assessing the severity of a blockage in a vessel and in particular a stenosis in a blood vessel. In that regard there remains a need for improved devices systems and methods for assessing the severity of a stenosis in the coronary arteries that do not require the administration of hyperemic agents. Further there remains a need for improved devices systems and methods for providing visual depictions of vessel that allow assessment of the vessel and in particular any stenosis or lesion of the vessel.

Embodiments of the present disclosure are configured to assess the severity of a blockage in a vessel and in particular a stenosis in a blood vessel. In some particular embodiments the devices systems and methods of the present disclosure are configured to provide screen displays that allow assessment of the vessel and in particular any stenosis or lesion of the vessel.

In some embodiments methods of evaluating a vessel of a patient are provided. The method includes obtaining pressure measurements from first and second instruments positioned within a vessel of a patient while the second instrument is moved longitudinally through the vessel from a first position to a second position and the first instrument remains stationary within the vessel and outputting a visual representation of the pressure measurements obtained by the first and second instruments on a display the output visual representation including a graphical display of a pressure ratio of the obtained pressure measurements and at least a portion of a pressure waveform of the obtained pressure measurements identifying a diagnostic period utilized in calculating the pressure ratio. In some implementations the first position is distal of at least one stenosis of the vessel and the second position is proximal of the at least one stenosis of the vessel such that moving the second instrument longitudinally through the vessel comprises a pullback. In some instances the graphical display of the pressure ratio of the obtained pressure measurements includes a numerical value of the pressure ratio. In some instances the graphical display of the pressure ratio of the obtained pressure measurements includes a graph of the pressure ratio. In other instances the graphical display of the pressure ratio of the obtained pressure measurements includes a graph of a change in the pressure ratio. In other instances the graphical display of the pressure ratio of the obtained pressure measurements includes separate plots of the pressure measurements obtained with the first instrument and the pressure measurements obtained with the second instrument. In some instances the screen display further includes a graph of a difference in the pressure measurements obtained with the first instrument and the pressure measurements obtained with the second instrument.

A system for evaluating a vessel of a patient is also provided that includes a first instrument sized and shaped for introduction into the vessel of the patient a second instrument sized and shaped for introduction into the vessel of the patient a processing system in communication with the first and second instruments the processing unit configured to obtain pressure measurements from the first and second instruments while the second instrument is moved longitudinally through the vessel of the patient from a first position to a second position while the first instrument is maintained in a fixed longitudinal position with respect to the vessel and output a screen display having visual representations of the pressure measurements obtained by the first and second instruments on a display in communication with the processing system the screen display including a graphical display of a pressure ratio of the obtained pressure measurements and at least a portion of a pressure waveform of the obtained pressure measurements identifying a diagnostic period utilized in calculating the pressure ratio.

Additional aspects features and advantages of the present disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description.

For the purposes of promoting an understanding of the principles of the present disclosure reference will now be made to the embodiments illustrated in the drawings and specific language will be used to describe the same. It is nevertheless understood that no limitation to the scope of the disclosure is intended. Any alterations and further modifications to the described devices systems and methods and any further application of the principles of the present disclosure are fully contemplated and included within the present disclosure as would normally occur to one skilled in the art to which the disclosure relates. In particular it is fully contemplated that the features components and or steps described with respect to one embodiment may be combined with the features components and or steps described with respect to other embodiments of the present disclosure. For the sake of brevity however the numerous iterations of these combinations will not be described separately.

Referring to shown therein is a vessel having a stenosis according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. In that regard is a diagrammatic perspective view of the vessel while is a partial cross sectional perspective view of a portion of the vessel taken along section line of . Referring more specifically to the vessel includes a proximal portion and a distal portion . A lumen extends along the length of the vessel between the proximal portion and the distal portion . In that regard the lumen is configured to allow the flow of fluid through the vessel. In some instances the vessel is a blood vessel. In some particular instances the vessel is a coronary artery. In such instances the lumen is configured to facilitate the flow of blood through the vessel .

As shown the vessel includes a stenosis between the proximal portion and the distal portion . Stenosis is generally representative of any blockage or other structural arrangement that results in a restriction to the flow of fluid through the lumen of the vessel . Embodiments of the present disclosure are suitable for use in a wide variety of vascular applications including without limitation coronary peripheral including but not limited to lower limb carotid and neurovascular renal and or venous. Where the vessel is a blood vessel the stenosis may be a result of plaque buildup including without limitation plaque components such as fibrous fibro lipidic fibro fatty necrotic core calcified dense calcium blood fresh thrombus and mature thrombus. Generally the composition of the stenosis will depend on the type of vessel being evaluated. In that regard it is understood that the concepts of the present disclosure are applicable to virtually any type of blockage or other narrowing of a vessel that results in decreased fluid flow.

Referring more particularly to the lumen of the vessel has a diameter proximal of the stenosis and a diameter distal of the stenosis. In some instances the diameters and are substantially equal to one another. In that regard the diameters and are intended to represent healthy portions or at least healthier portions of the lumen in comparison to stenosis . Accordingly these healthier portions of the lumen are illustrated as having a substantially constant cylindrical profile and as a result the height or width of the lumen has been referred to as a diameter. However it is understood that in many instances these portions of the lumen will also have plaque buildup a non symmetric profile and or other irregularities but to a lesser extent than stenosis and therefore will not have a cylindrical profile. In such instances the diameters and are understood to be representative of a relative size or cross sectional area of the lumen and do not imply a circular cross sectional profile.

As shown in stenosis includes plaque buildup that narrows the lumen of the vessel . In some instances the plaque buildup does not have a uniform or symmetrical profile making angiographic evaluation of such a stenosis unreliable. In the illustrated embodiment the plaque buildup includes an upper portion and an opposing lower portion . In that regard the lower portion has an increased thickness relative to the upper portion that results in a non symmetrical and non uniform profile relative to the portions of the lumen proximal and distal of the stenosis . As shown the plaque buildup decreases the available space for fluid to flow through the lumen . In particular the cross sectional area of the lumen is decreased by the plaque buildup . At the narrowest point between the upper and lower portions the lumen has a height which is representative of a reduced size or cross sectional area relative to the diameters and proximal and distal of the stenosis . Note that the stenosis including plaque buildup is exemplary in nature and should be considered limiting in any way. In that regard it is understood that the stenosis has other shapes and or compositions that limit the flow of fluid through the lumen in other instances. While the vessel is illustrated in as having a single stenosis and the description of the embodiments below is primarily made in the context of a single stenosis it is nevertheless understood that the devices systems and methods described herein have similar application for a vessel having multiple stenosis regions.

Referring now to the vessel is shown with instruments and positioned therein according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. In general instruments and may be any form of device instrument or probe sized and shaped to be positioned within a vessel. In the illustrated embodiment instrument is generally representative of a guide wire while instrument is generally representative of a catheter. In that regard instrument extends through a central lumen of instrument . However in other embodiments the instruments and take other forms. In that regard the instruments and are of similar form in some embodiments. For example in some instances both instruments and are guide wires. In other instances both instruments and are catheters. On the other hand the instruments and are of different form in some embodiments such as the illustrated embodiment where one of the instruments is a catheter and the other is a guide wire. Further in some instances the instruments and are disposed coaxial with one another as shown in the illustrated embodiment of . In other instances one of the instruments extends through an off center lumen of the other instrument. In yet other instances the instruments and extend side by side. In some particular embodiments at least one of the instruments is as a rapid exchange device such as a rapid exchange catheter. In such embodiments the other instrument is a buddy wire or other device configured to facilitate the introduction and removal of the rapid exchange device. Further still in other instances instead of two separate instruments and a single instrument is utilized. In some embodiments the single instrument incorporates aspects of the functionalities e.g. data acquisition of both instruments and .

Instrument is configured to obtain diagnostic information about the vessel . In that regard the instrument includes one or more sensors transducers and or other monitoring elements configured to obtain the diagnostic information about the vessel. The diagnostic information includes one or more of pressure flow velocity images including images obtained using ultrasound e.g. IVUS OCT thermal and or other imaging techniques temperature and or combinations thereof. The one or more sensors transducers and or other monitoring elements are positioned adjacent a distal portion of the instrument in some instances. In that regard the one or more sensors transducers and or other monitoring elements are positioned less than 30 cm less than 10 cm less than 5 cm less than 3 cm less than 2 cm and or less than 1 cm from a distal tip of the instrument in some instances. In some instances at least one of the one or more sensors transducers and or other monitoring elements is positioned at the distal tip of the instrument .

The instrument includes at least one element configured to monitor pressure within the vessel . The pressure monitoring element can take the form a piezo resistive pressure sensor a piezo electric pressure sensor a capacitive pressure sensor an electromagnetic pressure sensor a fluid column the fluid column being in communication with a fluid column sensor that is separate from the instrument and or positioned at a portion of the instrument proximal of the fluid column an optical pressure sensor and or combinations thereof. In some instances one or more features of the pressure monitoring element are implemented as a solid state component manufactured using semiconductor and or other suitable manufacturing techniques. Examples of commercially available guide wire products that include suitable pressure monitoring elements include without limitation the PrimeWire PRESTIGE pressure guide wire the PrimeWire pressure guide wire and the ComboWire XT pressure and flow guide wire each available from Volcano Corporation as well as the PressureWire Certus guide wire and the PressureWire Aeris guide wire each available from St. Jude Medical Inc. Generally the instrument is sized such that it can be positioned through the stenosis without significantly impacting fluid flow across the stenosis which would impact the distal pressure reading. Accordingly in some instances the instrument has an outer diameter of 0.018 or less. In some embodiments the instrument has an outer diameter of 0.014 or less.

Instrument is also configured to obtain diagnostic information about the vessel . In some instances instrument is configured to obtain the same diagnostic information as instrument . In other instances instrument is configured to obtain different diagnostic information than instrument which may include additional diagnostic information less diagnostic information and or alternative diagnostic information. The diagnostic information obtained by instrument includes one or more of pressure flow velocity images including images obtained using ultrasound e.g. IVUS OCT thermal and or other imaging techniques temperature and or combinations thereof. Instrument includes one or more sensors transducers and or other monitoring elements configured to obtain this diagnostic information. In that regard the one or more sensors transducers and or other monitoring elements are positioned adjacent a distal portion of the instrument in some instances. In that regard the one or more sensors transducers and or other monitoring elements are positioned less than 30 cm less than 10 cm less than 5 cm less than 3 cm less than 2 cm and or less than 1 cm from a distal tip of the instrument in some instances. In some instances at least one of the one or more sensors transducers and or other monitoring elements is positioned at the distal tip of the instrument .

Similar to instrument instrument also includes at least one element configured to monitor pressure within the vessel . The pressure monitoring element can take the form a piezo resistive pressure sensor a piezo electric pressure sensor a capacitive pressure sensor an electromagnetic pressure sensor a fluid column the fluid column being in communication with a fluid column sensor that is separate from the instrument and or positioned at a portion of the instrument proximal of the fluid column an optical pressure sensor and or combinations thereof. In some instances one or more features of the pressure monitoring element are implemented as a solid state component manufactured using semiconductor and or other suitable manufacturing techniques. Currently available catheter products suitable for use with one or more of Siemens AXIOM Sensis Mennen Horizon XVu and Philips Xper IM Physiomonitoring 5 and include pressure monitoring elements can be utilized for instrument in some instances.

In accordance with aspects of the present disclosure at least one of the instruments and is configured to monitor a pressure within the vessel distal of the stenosis and at least one of the instruments and is configured to monitor a pressure within the vessel proximal of the stenosis. In that regard the instruments are sized and shaped to allow positioning of the at least one element configured to monitor pressure within the vessel to be positioned proximal and or distal of the stenosis as necessary based on the configuration of the devices. In that regard illustrates a position suitable for measuring pressure distal of the stenosis . In that regard the position is less than 5 cm less than 3 cm less than 2 cm less than 1 cm less than 5 mm and or less than 2.5 mm from the distal end of the stenosis as shown in in some instances. also illustrates a plurality of suitable positions for measuring pressure proximal of the stenosis . In that regard positions and each represent a position that is suitable for monitoring the pressure proximal of the stenosis in some instances. In that regard the positions and are positioned at varying distances from the proximal end of the stenosis ranging from more than 20 cm down to about 5 mm or less. Generally the proximal pressure measurement will be spaced from the proximal end of the stenosis. Accordingly in some instances the proximal pressure measurement is taken at a distance equal to or greater than an inner diameter of the lumen of the vessel from the proximal end of the stenosis. In the context of coronary artery pressure measurements the proximal pressure measurement is generally taken at a position proximal of the stenosis and distal of the aorta within a proximal portion of the vessel. However in some particular instances of coronary artery pressure measurements the proximal pressure measurement is taken from a location inside the aorta. In other instances the proximal pressure measurement is taken at the root or ostium of the coronary artery.

In some embodiments at least one of the instruments and is configured to monitor pressure within the vessel while being moved through the lumen . In some instances instrument is configured to be moved through the lumen and across the stenosis . In that regard the instrument is positioned distal of the stenosis and moved proximally i.e. pulled back across the stenosis to a position proximal of the stenosis in some instances. In other instances the instrument is positioned proximal of the stenosis and moved distally across the stenosis to a position distal of the stenosis. Movement of the instrument either proximally or distally is controlled manually by medical personnel e.g. hand of a surgeon in some embodiments. In other embodiments movement of the instrument either proximally or distally is controlled automatically by a movement control device e.g. a pullback device such as the Trak Back II Device available from Volcano Corporation . In that regard the movement control device controls the movement of the instrument at a selectable and known speed e.g. 2.0 mm s 1.0 mm s 0.5 mm s 0.2 mm s etc. in some instances. Movement of the instrument through the vessel is continuous for each pullback or push through in some instances. In other instances the instrument is moved step wise through the vessel i.e. repeatedly moved a fixed amount of distance and or a fixed amount of time . Some aspects of the visual depictions discussed below are particularly suited for embodiments where at least one of the instruments and is moved through the lumen . Further in some particular instances aspects of the visual depictions discussed below are particularly suited for embodiments where a single instrument is moved through the lumen with or without the presence of a second instrument.

In some instances use of a single instrument has a benefit in that it avoids issues associated with variations in pressure measurements of one instrument relative to another over time which is commonly referred to as drift. In that regard a major source of drift in traditional Fractional Flow Reserve FFR measurements is divergence in the pressure reading of a guide wire relative to the pressure reading of a guide catheter. In that regard because FFR is calculated as the ratio of the pressure measurement obtained by the guide wire to the pressure measurement obtained by the catheter this divergence has an impact on the resulting FFR value. In contrast where a single instrument is utilized to obtain pressure measurements as it is moved through the vessel drift is negligible or non existent. For example in some instances the single instrument is utilized to obtain relative changes in pressures as it is moved through the vessel such that the time period between pressure measurements is short enough to prevent any impact from any changes in pressure sensitivity of the instrument e.g. less than 500 ms less than 100 ms less than 50 ms less than 10 ms less than 5 ms less than 1 ms or otherwise .

Referring now to shown therein is a system according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. In that regard is a diagrammatic schematic view of the system . As shown the system includes an instrument . In that regard in some instances instrument is suitable for use as at least one of instruments and discussed above. Accordingly in some instances the instrument includes features similar to those discussed above with respect to instruments and in some instances. In the illustrated embodiment the instrument is a guide wire having a distal portion and a housing positioned adjacent the distal portion. In that regard the housing is spaced approximately 3 cm from a distal tip of the instrument . The housing is configured to house one or more sensors transducers and or other monitoring elements configured to obtain the diagnostic information about the vessel. In the illustrated embodiment the housing contains at least a pressure sensor configured to monitor a pressure within a lumen in which the instrument is positioned. A shaft extends proximally from the housing . A torque device is positioned over and coupled to a proximal portion of the shaft . A proximal end portion of the instrument is coupled to a connector . A cable extends from connector to a connector . In some instances connector is configured to be plugged into an interface . In that regard interface is a patient interface module PIM in some instances. In some instances the cable is replaced with a wireless connection. In that regard it is understood that various communication pathways between the instrument and the interface may be utilized including physical connections including electrical optical and or fluid connections wireless connections and or combinations thereof.

The interface is communicatively coupled to a computing device via a connection . Computing device is generally representative of any device suitable for performing the processing and analysis techniques discussed within the present disclosure. In some embodiments the computing device includes a processor random access memory and a storage medium. In that regard in some particular instances the computing device is programmed to execute steps associated with the data acquisition and analysis described herein. Accordingly it is understood that any steps related to data acquisition data processing instrument control and or other processing or control aspects of the present disclosure may be implemented by the computing device using corresponding instructions stored on or in a non transitory computer readable medium accessible by the computing device. In some instances the computing device is a console device. In some particular instances the computing device is similar to the s5 Imaging System or the s5i Imaging System each available from Volcano Corporation. In some instances the computing device is portable e.g. handheld on a rolling cart etc. . Further it is understood that in some instances the computing device comprises a plurality of computing devices. In that regard it is particularly understood that the different processing and or control aspects of the present disclosure may be implemented separately or within predefined groupings using a plurality of computing devices. Any divisions and or combinations of the processing and or control aspects described below across multiple computing devices are within the scope of the present disclosure.

Together connector cable connector interface and connection facilitate communication between the one or more sensors transducers and or other monitoring elements of the instrument and the computing device . However this communication pathway is exemplary in nature and should not be considered limiting in any way. In that regard it is understood that any communication pathway between the instrument and the computing device may be utilized including physical connections including electrical optical and or fluid connections wireless connections and or combinations thereof. In that regard it is understood that the connection is wireless in some instances. In some instances the connection includes a communication link over a network e.g. intranet internet telecommunications network and or other network . In that regard it is understood that the computing device is positioned remote from an operating area where the instrument is being used in some instances. Having the connection include a connection over a network can facilitate communication between the instrument and the remote computing device regardless of whether the computing device is in an adjacent room an adjacent building or in a different state country. Further it is understood that the communication pathway between the instrument and the computing device is a secure connection in some instances. Further still it is understood that in some instances the data communicated over one or more portions of the communication pathway between the instrument and the computing device is encrypted.

The system also includes an instrument . In that regard in some instances instrument is suitable for use as at least one of instruments and discussed above. Accordingly in some instances the instrument includes features similar to those discussed above with respect to instruments and in some instances. In the illustrated embodiment the instrument is a catheter type device. In that regard the instrument includes one or more sensors transducers and or other monitoring elements adjacent a distal portion of the instrument configured to obtain the diagnostic information about the vessel. In the illustrated embodiment the instrument includes a pressure sensor configured to monitor a pressure within a lumen in which the instrument is positioned. The instrument is in communication with an interface via connection . In some instances interface is a hemodynamic monitoring system or other control device such as Siemens AXIOM Sensis Mennen Horizon XVu and Philips Xper IM Physiomonitoring 5. In one particular embodiment instrument is a pressure sensing catheter that includes fluid column extending along its length. In such an embodiment interface includes a hemostasis valve fluidly coupled to the fluid column of the catheter a manifold fluidly coupled to the hemostasis valve and tubing extending between the components as necessary to fluidly couple the components. In that regard the fluid column of the catheter is in fluid communication with a pressure sensor via the valve manifold and tubing. In some instances the pressure sensor is part of interface . In other instances the pressure sensor is a separate component positioned between the instrument and the interface . The interface is communicatively coupled to the computing device via a connection .

Similar to the connections between instrument and the computing device interface and connections and facilitate communication between the one or more sensors transducers and or other monitoring elements of the instrument and the computing device . However this communication pathway is exemplary in nature and should not be considered limiting in any way. In that regard it is understood that any communication pathway between the instrument and the computing device may be utilized including physical connections including electrical optical and or fluid connections wireless connections and or combinations thereof. In that regard it is understood that the connection is wireless in some instances. In some instances the connection includes a communication link over a network e.g. intranet internet telecommunications network and or other network . In that regard it is understood that the computing device is positioned remote from an operating area where the instrument is being used in some instances. Having the connection include a connection over a network can facilitate communication between the instrument and the remote computing device regardless of whether the computing device is in an adjacent room an adjacent building or in a different state country. Further it is understood that the communication pathway between the instrument and the computing device is a secure connection in some instances. Further still it is understood that in some instances the data communicated over one or more portions of the communication pathway between the instrument and the computing device is encrypted.

It is understood that one or more components of the system are not included are implemented in a different arrangement order and or are replaced with an alternative device mechanism in other embodiments of the present disclosure. For example in some instances the system does not include interface and or interface . In such instances the connector or other similar connector in communication with instrument or instrument may plug into a port associated with computing device . Alternatively the instruments may communicate wirelessly with the computing device . Generally speaking the communication pathway between either or both of the instruments and the computing device may have no intermediate nodes i.e. a direct connection one intermediate node between the instrument and the computing device or a plurality of intermediate nodes between the instrument and the computing device.

Referring now to shown therein are various visual depictions of screen displays for evaluating a vessel based on obtained pressure measurements according to embodiments of the present disclosure. Referring more specifically to shown therein is a screen display according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. The screen display includes multiple tabs including an iFR tab an FFR tab a patient tab and a settings tab . In the iFR tab has been selected and displayed to a user. As shown the iFR tab includes a graph and a corresponding a pressure waveform plot . The screen display also includes a window that shows a calculated pressure ratio e.g. FFR iFR or otherwise . The screen display also includes a window showing the runs or pullbacks available for display to the user. In the illustrated embodiment two different runs are available and identified by a corresponding time stamp. In that regard a user can select the desired run from the window and the data shown in the graph and pressure waveform plot will update accordingly.

The screen display also includes zoom buttons that allow a user to zoom out or in respectively on the graph and the pressure waveform plot . To this end the screen display includes a ruler showing the relative scale of the graph and the pressure waveform plot . In some instances the ruler provides a dimensional scale of the graphical display of the graph and or the pressure waveform plot relative to the vessel length and or the pullback length. The scale of the ruler automatically updates in response to selective actuation of the zoom buttons in some implementations.

The screen display also includes a slider . The slider allows the user to move along the length of the vessel and or the corresponding pullback data. For example in some instances the left end of the slider corresponds to the beginning of the pullback and the right end of the slider corresponds to the end of the pullback. By moving the slider between the first and second ends a user can see corresponding portions of the pressure data in the graph and the pressure waveform plot . Accordingly a user can focus on certain portions of the vessel and pullback data using the zoom buttons in combination with the slider . In some instances the numerical value of the pressure ratio displayed in window is updated based on the position of the slider and or. In that regard in some instances the numerical value of the pressure ratio displayed in window is based solely on the pressure data being displayed in the graph and the pressure waveform plot . However in other instances the numerical value of the pressure ratio displayed in window is based one of or a combination of the pressure data being displayed in the graph and the pressure waveform plot and pressure data not displayed in the graph and the pressure waveform plot .

In that regard the graph and pressure waveform plot of screen display illustrate aspects of pressure measurements obtained as one instrument is moved through the vessel and another instrument is maintained at a fixed location. In that regard in some instances the pressure measurements are representative of a pressure ratio between a fixed location within the vessel and the moving position of the instrument as the instrument is moved through the vessel. For example in some instances a proximal pressure measurement is obtained at a fixed location within the vessel while the instrument is pulled back through the vessel from a first position distal of the position where the proximal pressure measurement is obtained to a second position more proximal than the first position i.e. closer to the fixed position of the proximal pressure measurement . For clarity in understanding the concepts of the present disclosure this arrangement will be utilized to describe many of the embodiments of the present disclosure. However it is understood that the concepts are equally applicable to other arrangements. For example in some instances the instrument is pushed through the vessel from a first position distal of the proximal pressure measurement location to a second position further distal i.e. further away from the fixed position of the proximal pressure measurement . In other instances a distal pressure measurement is obtained at a fixed location within the vessel and the instrument is pulled back through the vessel from a first position proximal of the fixed location of the distal pressure measurement to a second position more proximal than the first position i.e. further away from the fixed position of the distal pressure measurement . In still other instances a distal pressure measurement is obtained at a fixed location within the vessel and the instrument is pushed through the vessel from a first position proximal of the fixed location of the distal pressure measurement to a second position less proximal than the first position i.e. closer the fixed position of the distal pressure measurement .

The pressure differential between the two pressure measurements within the vessel e.g. a fixed location pressure measurement and a moving pressure measurement is calculated as a ratio of the two pressure measurements e.g. the moving pressure measurement divided by the fixed location pressure measurement in some instances. In some instances the pressure differential is calculated for each heartbeat cycle of the patient. In that regard the calculated pressure differential is the average pressure differential across a heartbeat cycle in some embodiments. For example in some instances where a hyperemic agent is applied to the patient the average pressure differential across the heartbeat cycle is utilized to calculate the pressure differential. In other embodiments only a portion of the heartbeat cycle is utilized to calculate the pressure differential. The pressure differential is an average over the portion or diagnostic window of the heartbeat cycle in some instances.

In some embodiments a diagnostic window is selected using one or more of the techniques described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 460 296 published as U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2013 0046190 on Feb. 21 2013 and titled DEVICES SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR ASSESSING A VESSEL which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. As discussed therein the diagnostic windows and associated techniques are particularly suitable for use without application of a hyperemic agent to the patient. In general the diagnostic window for evaluating differential pressure across a stenosis without the use of a hyperemic agent is identified based on characteristics and or components of one or more of proximal pressure measurements distal pressure measurements proximal velocity measurements distal velocity measurements ECG waveforms and or other identifiable and or measurable aspects of vessel performance. In that regard various signal processing and or computational techniques can be applied to the characteristics and or components of one or more of proximal pressure measurements distal pressure measurements proximal velocity measurements distal velocity measurements ECG waveforms and or other identifiable and or measurable aspects of vessel performance to identify a suitable diagnostic window.

In the illustrated embodiment of the graph shows the pressure ratio over time. In particular the graph shows the pressure ratio calculated over the time of a pullback. More specifically the graph shows an iFR pressure ratio value during a pullback. In that regard the iFR pressure ratio may be calculated as described in one or more of PCT Patent Application Publication No. WO 2012 093260 filed Jan. 6 2012 and titled APPARATUS AND METHOD OF CHARACTERISING A NARROWING IN A FLUID FILLED TUBE PCT Patent Application Publication No. WO 2012 093266 filed Jan. 6 2012 and titled APPARATUS AND METHOD OF ASSESSING A NARROWING IN A FLUID FILLED TUBE U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 460 296 published as U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2013 0046190 on Feb. 21 2013 and titled DEVICES SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR ASSESSING A VESSEL PCT Patent Application Publication No. WO 2013 028612 filed Aug. 20 2012 and titled DEVICES SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR VISUALLY DEPICTING A VESSEL AND EVALUATING TREATMENT OPTIONS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 335 603 published as U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2015 0025330 on Jan. 22 2015 and titled DEVICES SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR ASSESSMENT OF VESSELS and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 335 680 published as U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2015 0025398 on Jan. 22 2015 and titled DEVICES SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR ASSESSING A VESSEL WITH AUTOMATED DRIFT CORRECTION each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The graph can illustrate the pressure ratio and or the underlying pressure measurements in any suitable way. In that regard described below illustrate various exemplary embodiments. Generally speaking the representation of the data in graph can be utilized to identify gradients changes in the pressure ratio and or the underlying pressure measurements that can be indicative of a significant lesion in the vessel. In that regard the visual representation of the data can include the pressure measurement s a ratio of the pressure measurements a difference in the pressure measurements a gradient of the pressure measurement s the ratio of the pressure measurements and or the difference in the pressure measurements first or second derivatives of the pressure measurement s the ratio of the pressure measurements and or the difference in the pressure measurements and or combinations thereof.

Likewise the pressure waveform plot shows the corresponding pressure data. In that regard the pressure waveform plot can include the pressure waveform for the pressure sensing device moved through the vessel during the pullback the pressure waveform for the stationary pressure sensing device or both. In the illustrated embodiment the pressure waveform plot includes the pressure waveforms for both. As will be discussed below with respect to in some instances the pressure waveform plot is augmented to highlight or otherwise accentuate the pressure data corresponding to the diagnostic window utilized for the pressure ratio calculations.

As shown in the screen display includes a button indicating that the data is being displayed in a Live mode which indicates that the screen display including graph pressure waveform plot and or the window is being updated in real time as a procedure is being performed. In other instances the button of the screen display will indicated that it is in Playback or Review mode which indicates that the screen display is showing data obtained previously. With respect to the Live mode it should be noted that the determination of the diagnostic window and or the calculation of the pressure differential are performed in approximately real time or live to identify the diagnostic window of the heartbeat cycle and calculate the pressure differential. In that regard calculating the pressure differential in real time or live within the context of the present disclosure is understood to encompass calculations that occur within 10 seconds of data acquisition. It is recognized however that often real time or live calculations are performed within 1 second of data acquisition. In some instances the real time or live calculations are performed concurrent with data acquisition. In some instances the calculations are performed by a processor in the delays between data acquisitions. For example if data is acquired from the pressure sensing devices for 1 ms every 5 ms then in the 4 ms between data acquisitions the processor can perform the calculations. It is understood that these timings are for example only and that data acquisition rates processing times and or other parameters surrounding the calculations will vary. In other embodiments the pressure differential calculation is performed or more seconds after data acquisition. For example in some embodiments the data utilized to identify the diagnostic window and or calculate the pressure differential are stored for later analysis.

By comparing the calculated pressure differential to a threshold or predetermined value a physician or other treating medical personnel can determine what if any treatment should be administered. In that regard in some instances a calculated pressure differential above a threshold value e.g. 0.80 on a scale of 0.00 to 1.00 is indicative of a first treatment mode e.g. no treatment drug therapy etc. while a calculated pressure differential below the threshold value is indicative of a second more invasive treatment mode e.g. angioplasty stent etc. . In some instances the threshold value is a fixed preset value. In other instances the threshold value is selected for a particular patient and or a particular stenosis of a patient. In that regard the threshold value for a particular patient may be based on one or more of empirical data patient characteristics patient history physician preference available treatment options and or other parameters.

In that regard the coloring and or other visually distinguishing aspect of the pressure differential measurements depicted in graph and or window of the screen display of are configured based on the threshold value in some instances. For example a first color e.g. green white or otherwise can be utilized to represent values well above the threshold value e.g. where the threshold value is 0.80 on a scale of 0.00 to 1.00 values above 0.90 a second color e.g. yellow gray or otherwise can be utilized to represent values near but above the threshold value e.g. where the threshold value is 0.80 on a scale of 0.00 to 1.00 values between 0.81 and 0.90 and a third color e.g. red black or otherwise can be utilized to represent values equal to or below the threshold value e.g. where the threshold value is 0.80 on a scale of 0.00 to 1.00 values of 0.80 and below . Further in some instances the graph includes one or more horizontal lines or other depictions representing the threshold value s . It is appreciated that any number of color combinations scalings categories and or other characteristics can be utilized to visually represent the relative value of the pressure differential to the threshold value. However for the sake of brevity Applicants will not explicitly describe the numerous variations herein.

Referring now to shown therein are various displays of pressure waveform plots according to the present disclosure. In particular the embodiments of may be used in place of the pressure waveform plot in any of the screen displays of the present disclosure. To that end the pressure waveform plots of highlight emphasis and or otherwise accentuate the portion s of the pressure data utilized in making the pressure ratio calculations depicted in the other graphs and or windows of the screen displays. In particular in some implementations the pressure waveform plots of identify the diagnostic window utilized in making iFR calculations.

Referring more specifically to shown therein is a pressure waveform plot that corresponds to the same data as shown in pressure waveform plot of but where the pressure data for each heartbeat that is within the diagnostic window utilized for making the iFR calculations shown in graph and window has been highlighted. For example for the first heartbeat cycle on the left side of the pressure waveform plot the pressure data within a diagnostic window has been highlighted. By highlighting the portions of the pressure waveform plot within the diagnostic window for each heartbeat cycle a user can quickly visualize the pressure data being relied upon for the resulting pressure ratio calculations.

Referring now to shown therein is a screen display according to another embodiment of the present disclosure. The screen display is similar in many respects to screen display described above. However the screen display includes a graph that shows a pressure difference during a pullback instead of an iFR value over time of the pullback as shown in graph of screen display . In particular the graph includes a plot that represents the difference in pressure between the instrument maintained at a fixed location for sake of brevity this will be referred to as Pa below and the instrument moved through the vessel for the pullback over time for sake of brevity this will be referred to as Pd below . In some implementations the difference in pressure is calculated as follows P Pa Pd for each heartbeat cycle. In some instances the difference in pressure may be referred to as the pressure gradient. In that regard a mean median mode and or other suitable value e.g. filtering to remove outliers then using mean median and or mode etc. is calculated and utilized for each of Pa and Pd for each heartbeat cycle. In that regard in some instances the mean median mode and or other suitable value used to represent Pa and or Pd for each heartbeat cycle is calculated using the pressure data within the diagnostic window s for each heartbeat cycle as highlighted in .

The graph also includes a plot that is shown in a faded or phantom manner. In some implementations the plot represents raw iFR data while the plot represents conditioned and or filtered iFR data. In that regard due to various reasons noise interference physiological effects e.g. patient movement coughing irregular heartbeat etc. and or other disruptions in the pressure measurements the raw iFR data may include variations that are not realistically representative of actual changes in iFR values during a pullback. Accordingly in some instances the raw iFR data of plot is smoothed filtered conditioned and or otherwise treated to remove abnormalities in the iFR values. For example plot has been constrained such that the pressure differences are equal to or less than the pressure differences for positions more distal during the pullback and therefore equal to or greater than the pressure ratios for positions more proximal during the pullback. Generally any suitable processing techniques can be utilized to adjust the values of the raw iFR data shown in plot to create the conditioned iFR data of plot . In some instances the Pa Pd and or iFR data is conditioned filtered or otherwise treated as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 335 680 published as U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2015 0025398 on Jan. 22 2015 and titled DEVICES SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR ASSESSING A VESSEL WITH AUTOMATED DRIFT CORRECTION which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Referring now to shown therein is a screen display according to another embodiment of the present disclosure. The screen display is similar in many respects to screen displays and described above. However the screen display includes a graph that shows a cumulative change in a pressure ratio value over time during a pullback. In particular the graph includes a plot that represents the cumulative change in iFR value over time. In some implementations the cumulative change in iFR value displayed in graph is calculated as follows iFR iFR iFR iFR. In that regard n represents each heartbeat cycle in some implementations. In other instances n represents a fixed amount of time or a fixed amount of pullback length. Further a mean median mode and or other suitable value e.g. filtering to remove outliers then using mean median and or mode etc. is calculated and utilized for Pa Pd and or the resulting iFR values for each heartbeat cycle. In that regard in some instances the mean median mode and or other suitable value used to represent Pa Pd and or the iFR value for each heartbeat cycle is calculated based on the pressure data within the diagnostic window s for each heartbeat cycle as highlighted in . Again the iFR value can be calculated using the techniques described in one or more of applications incorporated by reference above. By utilizing a cumulative iFR change in graph the location of significant changes in iFR values which are often associated with the presence of a lesion or stenosis can be visually identified by a user. In addition the relative significance of the change in iFR value to total change in iFR value along the length of the pullback can be visualized. In this way the relative impact of the lesion or stenosis can be estimated visually.

Referring now to shown therein is a screen display according to another embodiment of the present disclosure. The screen display is similar in many respects to screen displays and described above. However the screen display includes a graph that shows a change in a pressure ratio value over time during a pullback. In particular the graph includes a plot that represents a localized change in iFR value over time. In that regard the localized iFR change is calculated as the difference between the immediately preceding or following point in some instances. For example in some implementations the change in iFR value displayed in graph is calculated as follows iFR iFR iFRor iFR iFR iFRIn that regard n represents each heartbeat cycle in some implementations. In other instances n represents a fixed amount of time or a fixed amount of pullback length. Further a mean median mode and or other suitable value e.g. filtering to remove outliers then using mean median and or mode etc. is calculated and utilized for Pa Pd and or the resulting iFR values for each heartbeat cycle. In that regard in some instances the mean median mode and or other suitable value used to represent Pa Pd and or the iFR value for each heartbeat cycle is calculated based on the pressure data within the diagnostic window s for each heartbeat cycle as highlighted in . Again the iFR value can be calculated using the techniques described in one or more of applications incorporated by reference above. By utilizing a localized iFR change in graph the location of significant changes in iFR values which are often associated with the presence of a lesion or stenosis can be visually identified by a user.

Referring now to shown therein is a screen display according to another embodiment of the present disclosure. The screen display is similar in many respects to screen displays and described above. However the screen display includes a graph that shows Pa and Pd pressures over time during a pullback. In particular the graph includes a plot that represents Pa during the pullback and a plot that represents Pd during the pullback. In that regard a mean median mode and or other suitable value e.g. filtering to remove outliers then using mean median and or mode etc. is calculated and utilized for each of Pa and Pd for each heartbeat cycle. In that regard in some instances the mean median mode and or other suitable value used to represent Pa and or Pd for each heartbeat cycle is calculated using the pressure data within the diagnostic window s for each heartbeat cycle as highlighted in .

Persons skilled in the art will also recognize that the apparatus systems and methods described above can be modified in various ways. Accordingly persons of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the embodiments encompassed by the present disclosure are not limited to the particular exemplary embodiments described above. In that regard although illustrative embodiments have been shown and described a wide range of modification change and substitution is contemplated in the foregoing disclosure. It is understood that such variations may be made to the foregoing without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Accordingly it is appropriate that the appended claims be construed broadly and in a manner consistent with the present disclosure.

