---

title: Device-based authentication for secure online access
abstract: Methods, systems, and computer-readable media for providing device-based authentication for secure online access are provided. An authentication request is received from an online service. The authentication request may be associated with a login request received by the online service from a user. The authentication request may further indicate a list of device identifiers for computing devices connected to a provider network and previously designated by the user as authorized to access the online service. Communication logs collected from the provider network are analyzed to determine whether the login request originated from one of the authorized computing devices based on the list of device identifiers. If it is determined that the login request originated from one of the authorized computing devices, an indication is returned to the online service that the login request was received from an authorized computing device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09426161&OS=09426161&RS=09426161
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, L.P.
number: 09426161
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151102
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 462 913 entitled Device Based Authentication for Secure Online Access filed May 3 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 178 879 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This disclosure relates generally to the field of online authentication. More specifically the disclosure provided herein relates to strategies for providing device based authentication for online services.

Online service providers often rely on user names and passwords for authenticating users of their online services. The drawback of a simple user name password scheme is that once a user s credentials have been compromised an attacker can utilize these credentials to log into the user s account s from any location anywhere in the world using any device. Providers of critical online services such as online banking might impose additional authentication means or steps for added security. For example the online service provider may require complex passwords and or ensure that passwords are changed frequently.

Additionally or alternatively the online service provider may send a one time code to another device of the user such as a mobile phone via short message service SMS text message or provide a security token that provides a code that is valid in a specific time window in which the user must enter the code in addition to the user name and password to log into the service. However these schemes may still be susceptible to man in the middle attacks where the one time code is stolen in addition to the user name and password and relayed to the attacker in real time facilitating the attacker to log into the online service within that time window.

It should be appreciated that this Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Embodiments of the disclosure presented herein include methods systems and computer readable media for providing device based authentication for secure online access. According to aspects upon receiving a login request from a user an online service sends an authentication request to a device based authentication module. The authentication request may indicate a list of device identifiers for computing devices connected to a provider network and previously designated by the user as authorized to access the online service. The device based authentication module analyzes communication logs collected from the provider network to determine whether the login request originated from one of the authorized computing devices based on the list of device identifiers. If it is determined that the login request originated from one of the authorized computing devices the device based authentication module returns an indication to the online service that the login request was received from an authorized computing device.

Other systems methods and or computer program products according to embodiments will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon review of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods and or computer program products be included within this description be within the scope of the present invention and be protected by the accompanying claims.

The following detailed description is directed to methods systems and computer readable media for providing device based authentication for secure online access. Utilizing the technologies described herein a user may designate one or more specific devices as authorized to access a secure online service. The devices may operate within a communications network provided by a network provider such as a mobility carrier a wireless internet service provider a metropolitan area network MAN provider or the like. When the user logs into the online service the online service provider system may send an authentication request to an authentication system implemented by the network provider or a trusted third party authentication provider which in turn verifies that the login request originated from one of the designated authorized devices.

The device based authentication solutions described herein may provide extra protection for users of secure online services such as banking services without requiring the user to carry additional devices such as security tokens or to install additional software on their devices such as soft tokens. In addition if the user s credentials are compromised the user is still protected from access to their online service account by a remote attacker. The network provider may also be provided with an additional fee based product to offer to users and or online service providers.

In the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and that show by way of illustration specific embodiments or examples. In referring to the drawings it is to be understood that like numerals represent like elements through the several figures and that not all components described and illustrated with reference to the figures are required for all embodiments.

Referring now to an illustrative operating environment and several software components for providing device based authentication for secure online access is shown according to embodiments. The operating environment includes a secure online service implemented by an online service provider system . The secure online service may comprise one or more software modules executing on application servers and or other components of the online service provider system for example. The secure online service may provide online services to users such as the user . For example a bank may provide online banking services to account holders over the Internet. The user may utilize one or more computing devices A B referred to herein generally as computing devices to access the secure online service through one or more networks . The computing devices may include personal computers PCs desktop workstations laptops netbooks personal digital assistants PDAs mobile phones tablet devices and the like. The network s may include local area networks LANs wide area networks WANs mobile carrier networks the Internet and or any other networking topologies that connect the computing devices of the user to the online service provider system .

According to embodiments the network s include a provider network A. The provider network A may be implemented by a network provider at least in part to provide connectivity of specific computing devices of the user such as a mobile computing device B to the other network s . For example the provider network A may provide connectivity between the mobile computing device B and the Internet allowing the user to utilize the mobile computing device to access the secure online service . The provider network A may be a wireless network such as a digital cellular network or mobile broadband network an Internet service provider network a tier 3 network or any combination of these and or other types of networks known in the art in which the network provider 1 may uniquely and securely identify the computing devices connected to the provider network and 2 has visibility into the network traffic originating from the connected devices.

According to further embodiments the secure online service provides the user with the ability to designate one or more computing devices connected to the provider network A such as the mobile computing device B as authorized to access the secure online service. The secure online service may then restrict the computing devices that are allowed to log into service to those designated by the user . For example the user may utilize the mobile computing device B or some other computing device to log into the secure online service and access a Web page provided by the service that allows the user to specify a device identifier for each of the one or more computing devices authorized to access the secure online service .

The device identifier of a computing device provided to the secure online service may comprise a hardware identifier for the device such as an international mobile equipment identity IMEI number a media access control MAC address or the like. The device identifier may also comprise an identity of the pairing of the user with the computing device such as an international mobile subscriber identity IMSI number for example. The device identifier may also comprise a combination of these and other identifiers of the computing device in order to provide an identifier of the device that is more difficult to spoof In some embodiments the device identifier provided to the secure online service comprises a combination of the IMEI and IMSI numbers for the computing device .

Other methods of designating the one or more computing devices as authorized to access the secure online service may be envisioned beyond the Web page described above. For example an application or app executing on the mobile computing device B may obtain the device identifier directly from the device and provide the device identifier to the secure online service as part of an Authorize Device function of the app. It is intended that all such methods of designating the one or more computing devices as authorized to access the secure online service be included in the scope of this application. The secure online service may store the device identifiers for the authorized computing devices in an authorized device list for the user . The authorized device list may be stored in a database a file system or some other data storage system in the online service provider system for example.

The operating environment further includes a device based authentication module executing in an authentication system . The device based authentication module provides device based authentication services to the secure online service across the network s . According to some embodiments the authentication system may be implemented by the network provider associated with the provider network A. In other embodiments the authentication system may be implemented by a trusted entity or third party authentication provider. The device based authentication module may comprise any combination of software and or hardware components in the authentication system implemented in any technology known in the art. For example the device based authentication module may comprise a software module executing on one or more application servers in the authentication system .

In some embodiments the device based authentication module implements an application programming interface API that may be utilized by the secure online service to authenticate that login requests such as login request originate from an authorized computing device connected to the provider network A. The API may comprise a Web service or any other calling interface known in the art that may be accessed by the secure online service across the network s . As will be described in more detail below in regard to upon receiving a login request from the user the secure online service may send an authentication request to the API implemented by the device based authentication module .

The authentication request may include data identifying the secure online service an identifier of the user from which the login request was received and or a list of the device identifiers for the computing devices designated by the user as authorized to access the secure online service . The secure online service may obtain the list of the device identifiers from the authorized device list for the user for example. The authentication request may contain other information to identify the login request the user and or the authorized computing devices beyond that described herein such as an IP address of the computing device from which the login request originated for example.

Upon receiving the authentication request the device based authentication module may utilize communication logs stored in the authentication system to check that one of the identified authorized computing devices such as the mobile computing device B is online and that the login request originated from an authorized computing device such as the computing device B. The communication logs may comprise packet data generated by computing devices connected to the provider network A and collected in real time for example. The communication logs may be stored in a database one or more data files or other data storage systems implemented in or available to the authentication system for example. If it is determined that the login request originated from one of the identified authorized computing devices connected to the provider network A the device based authentication module may then return an indication to the secure online service that the computing device is authorized.

Referring now to additional aspects regarding the operation of the software modules and components described above in regard to will be provided. It should be appreciated that the logical operations described herein are implemented 1 as a sequence of computer implemented acts or program modules executing in a computing system and or 2 as interconnected machine logic circuits or circuit modules within the computing system. The implementation is a matter of choice and may depend on the performance and other requirements of the computing system. Accordingly the logical operations described herein are referred to variously as operations structural devices acts or modules. These operations structural devices acts and modules may be implemented in software in firmware in special purpose digital logic and any combination thereof.

It should also be appreciated that while the operations are depicted in as occurring in a sequence various operations described herein may be performed by different components or modules at different times. In addition more or fewer operations may be performed than shown and the operations may be performed in a different order than illustrated in .

The secure online service may send the authentication request after validating any user credentials provided in the login request or the secure online service may call the device based authentication module to validate that the login request originated from an authorized computing device before prompting the user for additional credentials such as a password. As further described above the authentication request may include data identifying the secure online service such as prearranged ID for the secure online service known by the authentication system an IP address where the login request was received and or the like. The authentication request may further include data regarding the associated login request such as user name or user ID of the user from which the login request was received an IP address or other origin address from which the login request originated a timestamp indicating when the login request was received and the like.

From operation the routine proceeds to operation where the device based authentication module retrieves a list of device identifiers for the computing devices designated by the user as authorized to access the secure online service . In some embodiments the list of device identifiers may be included in the authentication request by the secure online service based on the user from which the associated login request was received. In other embodiments the secure online service or another module in the online service provider system may periodically send authorized device lists for a number of users to the device based authentication module for storage in the authentication system . Upon receiving an authentication request identifying the secure online service and the user from which the associated login request was received the device based authentication module may retrieve the list of device identifiers from the authorized device list for the user stored in the authentication system . As discussed above the device identifier for each of the authorized computing devices may comprise an IMEI number an IMSI number a MAC address or any combination of these and other identifiers of the computing device.

The routine then proceeds from operation to operation where the device based authentication module analyzes the communication logs collected from the provider network A to locate network traffic originating from each of the authorized computing devices connected to the provider network such as the mobile computing device B. As further discussed above the communication logs may comprise packet data generated by computing devices connected to the provider network A and collected in real time. The device based authentication module may utilize the device identifiers for the authorized computing devices such as a combination of the IMEI and IMSI numbers described above to locate recent network packet data originating from the devices.

Next the routine proceeds from operation to operation where the device based authentication module uses the located network packet data to determine if the login request associated with the received authentication request originated from one of the authorized computing devices connected to the provider network A. In some embodiments the device based authentication module may parse the recent network packet data originating from the authorized computing devices located in the communication logs to determine if one of the authorized devices is currently connected to the provider network A and has network traffic directed to the secure online service that substantially coincides with the related login request i.e. within a certain temporal proximity of the time that the authentication request was received by the device based authentication module and or the time that the login request was received by the secure online service.

In further embodiments the device based authentication module may use additional information provided in the authentication request to verify the origin of the associated login request . For example the IP address from which the login request was received may be included in the authentication request and the device based authentication module may further verify that the authorized computing device that has transmitted data to the secure online service is currently assigned the specified IP address. It will be appreciated by one skilled in the art that other methods of utilizing the communication logs and the information included in the authentication request to determine if the associated login request originated from one of the authorized computing devices connected to the provider network A may be imagined beyond those described above and it is intended that all such methods be included in the scope of this application.

If the device based authentication module determines that the login request associated with the received authentication request originated from one of the authorized computing devices then the routine proceeds from operation to operation where the device based authentication module returns an indication to the secure online service that the device from which the login request was received is authorized. If the device based authentication module cannot locate an authorized computing device connected to the provider network A from which the login request may have originated the routine proceeds from operation to operation where the device based authentication module returns an indication to the secure online service that the device from which the login request was received is not authorized. From operation or the routine ends.

In further embodiments the login request may be generated by an app executing on a computing device that has access to the device identifier s such as the IMEI and or IMSI numbers of the device. The app may further include the device identifier information along with user credentials for the user in the login request . Upon receiving the login request the secure online service may send the device identifier along with the authentication request to the appropriate device based authentication module . The device identifier serves to identify the computing device that the user claims to be using. If this device identifier is stolen and used from a different computing device the device based authentication module may distinguish the requests based on the communication logs .

The processing unit may be a standard central processor that performs arithmetic and logical operations a more specific purpose programmable logic controller PLC a programmable gate array or other type of processor known to those skilled in the art and suitable for controlling the operation of the computer. Processing units are well known in the art and therefore not described in further detail herein.

The memory communicates with the processing unit via the system bus . In one embodiment the memory is operatively connected to a memory controller not shown that enables communication with the processing unit via the system bus . The memory includes an operating system and one or more program modules according to embodiments. Examples of operating systems such as the operating system include but are not limited to WINDOWS WINDOWS CE and WINDOWS MOBILE from MICROSOFT CORPORATION LINUX SYMBIAN from SYMBIAN SOFTWARE LTD. BREW from QUALCOMM INCORPORATED MAC OS from APPLE INC. and FREEBSD operating system. An example of the program modules includes the device based authentication module described above in regard to . In one embodiment the program modules are embodied in computer readable media containing instructions that when executed by the processing unit performs the routine for providing device based authentication for secure online access as described in greater detail above in regard to . According to further embodiments the program modules may be embodied in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof.

By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Communication media includes signals. Computer storage media includes volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for the non transitory storage of information such as computer executable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM Erasable Programmable ROM EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory or other solid state memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information in a non transitory fashion and which can be accessed by the computer system .

The user interface devices may include one or more devices with which a user accesses the computer system . The user interface devices may include but are not limited to computers servers personal digital assistants cellular phones or any suitable computing devices. The I O devices enable a user to interface with the program modules . In one embodiment the I O devices are operatively connected to an I O controller not shown that enables communication with the processing unit via the system bus . The I O devices may include one or more input devices such as but not limited to a touch screen a keyboard a mouse or an electronic stylus. Further the I O devices may include one or more output devices such as but not limited to a display screen or a printer.

The network interface controllers enable the computer system to communicate with other networks or remote systems via a network . Examples of the network interface controllers may include but are not limited to a modem a radio frequency RF or infrared IR transceiver a telephonic interface a bridge a router or a network card. The network may include a wireless network such as but not limited to a Wireless Local Area Network WLAN such as a WI FI network a Wireless Wide Area Network WWAN a Wireless Personal Area Network WPAN such as BLUETOOTH a Wireless Metropolitan Area Network WMAN such a WiMAX network or a cellular network. Alternatively the network may be a wired network such as but not limited to a Wide Area Network WAN such as the Internet a Local Area Network LAN such as the Ethernet a wired Personal Area Network PAN or a wired Metropolitan Area Network MAN . It will be appreciated that the computer system may not include all of the components shown in may include other components that are not explicitly shown in or may utilize an architecture completely different than that shown in .

Although the subject matter presented herein has been described in conjunction with one or more particular embodiments and implementations it is to be understood that the embodiments defined in the appended claims are not necessarily limited to the specific structure configuration or functionality described herein. Rather the specific structure configuration and functionality are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

The subject matter described above is provided by way of illustration only and should not be construed as limiting. Various modifications and changes may be made to the subject matter described herein without following the example embodiments and applications illustrated and described and without departing from the true spirit and scope of the embodiments which is set forth in the following claims.

