---

title: Identity management via cloud
abstract: A system and method of maintaining a user profile for a handheld computer in a shared, scalable computing resource is described. The method includes receiving user profile data from the handheld computer at the shared, scalable computing resource, the user profile data comprising a user security factor. The user profile data is received via a secure wireless communication protocol having authentication of an identity of the handheld computer. The method includes storing the user profile data on the shared, scalable computing resource as a portion of a user profile, the user profile further comprising user preference data. The method further includes receiving the user security factor from a second computing device. The user security factor is received via a secure wireless communication protocol having authentication of an identity of the second computing device. The method further includes downloading user preference data to the second computing device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09560031&OS=09560031&RS=09560031
owner: QUALCOMM INCORPORATED
number: 09560031
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150106
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 869 516 filed Aug. 26 2010 entitled IDENTITY MANAGEMENT VIA CLOUD which is a non provisional application of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 351 229 filed Jun. 3 2010 entitled IDENTITY MANAGEMENT VIA CLOUD each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present application relates generally to user accounts or identities for mobile computing devices.

One or more embodiments described herein may provide for easier upgrading of customers with a new phone. One or more embodiments may allow use of a mobile device to securely consolidate private user information such as bank account numbers credit card information email messages etc. One or more embodiments may use account information to secure the identity of a user because the account information is encrypted and can not be spoofed. One or more embodiments may provide a strict certification of who the user is and allow financial transactions using a handheld computing device.

Referring first to a block diagram of a system for storing and managing a user profile or user identity will be described according to an exemplary embodiment. A user profile is maintained in a cloud so that when accessing a new computing device all the user needs to provide is their a user security factor such as a unique user identifier and password to the cloud via the new computing device. At that point the cloud can download the user s data such as user preferences etc. and attach the user s identity to the new device. User data can include billing information passwords used to login and maintain financial transactions etc. The devices may be mobile phones which are personal and encrypted which will allow the user to uniquely identify him or herself in financial and personal transactions. Further a user can have multiple devices which can use the same user identity.

The shared scalable computing resource is a cloud computing resource in this exemplary embodiment but may alternatively be other server based computing resources. Computing resource may comprise a data center having one or more computer servers accessible via the Internet. The resource is shared in that different business entities or computing processes may use the resource or infrastructure simultaneously to serve the multiple users. Computing resource is scalable in that resources may be provisioned or allocated in real time on a self service basis. Resource may be configured to provide a support infrastructure to devices while reducing the need for the devices to need information about the specific server computer or computers providing services.

In this embodiment a user profile or user account is stored in or on the computing resource making it available to a plurality of different networks and a plurality of different computing devices. User profile is a data file or files comprising data representing a user identity. User profile may also comprise data representing user preferences such as password first last name email address security questions answer billing address mailing address bookmarks favorites screen color background photo or any of a wide range of other user preferences such as those described herein. User profile may comprise a user identifier such as a username e mail address or other identifier. The identifier may uniquely identify a person in that the identifier may be used by only one person who uses the system described herein. User profile may comprise a user password such as an alphanumeric code chosen by the person or assigned to the person by the system. Applications may comprise data associated with one or more software applications operable on device which have been associated with user profile through user selection for example from an application store accessible operable on cloud or another server computer and accessible by device and or associated with user profile by a manufacturer of device wireless carrier associated with device corporate enterprise associated with device or other source. The data associated with each application may comprise a uniform resource locator identifying a location from which the application can be downloaded and or updated an alphanumeric code identifying the application a version number of the application a developer name of an entity that developed the application high scores for a gaming application personal preferences set by a user for the application such as screen color defaults favorites etc. or other data.

User profile may further comprise financial information . The financial information may comprise bank account numbers credit card numbers balances account information of accounts with third party payment services such as Paypal personal identification numbers PINs username passwords for financial accounts billing information such as billing address or other financial information. User profile may further comprise other resources associated with the user such as Microsoft Exchange account information for e mail calendar and or contact accounts pictures or photograph files stored in or synchronized between the cloud and a device video files stored in or synchronized between the cloud and the device profile data that is shared between devices such as PIM data etc.

User profile may further comprise a number representing a maximum number of devices that the user profile may be associated with at one time such as one two three or more than three. Number may be set by a user manufacturer of device a wireless carrier associated with device a corporate enterprise associated with device or other entity. Cloud may then be configured to monitor the number of devices being associated with or used with user profile and to deny further devices from using user profile after the predetermined number has been met. Cloud may then allow further devices to use user profile after at least one device has been disassociated with user profile .

User profile may further comprise information about the one or more devices associated with the user profile. For example a device identifier may comprise a device serial number or other unique device identifier e.g. which may be an encrypted value of data on a SIM data card or unencrypted data . Device characteristics may comprise information such as primary function e.g. personal computer printer picture frame smartphone etc. data network and or voice network compatibility GSM CDMA EV DO LTE etc. an operating system and version operating on device e.g. webOS Windows Mobile etc. screen size and or resolution location based determination circuits and types e.g. GPS assisted GPS cell ID dead reckoning etc. wireless circuits and capabilities e.g. Wi Fi infrared Bluetooth etc. and or other characteristics of the device.

User profile may further be configured to store data indicative of a current state of the one or more devices associated with the user profile. Current states may comprise in use not in use locked not locked active inactive etc. Account states may comprise active inactive e mail verified not verified suspended locked not locked etc.

Part or all of the user profile may be stored in encrypted or unencrypted format on computing resource and or on one or more of devices .

Referring now to a method of managing or maintaining a user profile or identity in a cloud will be described. The user profile or account may be created for example at the time of purchase and first use of device . Device may be configured to operate a first use or registration application configured to collect user data from a person using the device and to use the device to create the user profile and or a user account in the cloud . The user account may be the same account or a different account than an account used for wireless services with a wireless carrier. According to one exemplary embodiment device is configured to allow the use of wireless services e.g. via a device activation process only if a user profile is created in the cloud e.g. via a user registration process otherwise device is configured to not allow a user to use wireless services i.e. the device is not activated on with the wireless carrier perhaps except for emergency services such as voice services data services etc. According to another embodiment a wireless carrier manufacturer of device or other entity may create the user profile. The user may then populate the user profile as described herein.

At operation device is configured to receive user profile data from a user and or from memory and to transmit the user profile data to the shared scalable computing resource . At operation resource is configured to receive the user profile data from handheld computer . The user profile data comprises at least a user security factor such as user identifier and a password in this exemplary embodiment which may also comprise a single private key a token a SAML Security Assertion Markup Language assertion security information verification information or other user security data. The user profile data is received via a secure wireless communication protocol having authentication of an identity of the handheld computer. According to one exemplary embodiment each of computing devices may comprise a circuit configured to store and communicate an authentication key to be used by the shared scalable computing resource to authenticate the identities computing devices . The secure protocol may comprise two layers a transport layer and an application layer. At the transport layer the secure protocol may use an HTTPS SSL Hyper Text Transfer Protocol Secure over Secure Socket Layer encrypted communication channel to interact between the device and resource . At the application layer for communications between the device and resource the device provides three items a unique token one way encrypted hash a device ID and a user email address. These are provided in addition to the functional payload used for the API being called. Using these the server can validate the authenticity of the device making the call. Alternative secure wireless communication protocols may be used.

At operation shared resource is configured to create or update if already created a user profile stored on resource . Resource is configured to store the user profile data on the shared scalable computing resource as a portion of a user profile the user profile further comprising user preference data. According to one embodiment handheld computer is configured to send user preference data at operation which is received at an operation by resource . The user preference data may be directly entered by a user collected from device or collected over time based on usage of device by the user e.g. the setting of a bookmarked web page a favorite downloaded applications etc. .

According to one advantageous feature the second computer may use a different wireless carrier to access the resource than the handheld computer. For example the user profile data may be received from the handheld computer via a wireless communication network operated by a first wireless carrier wherein the user identifier and password are received from the second computing device via a wireless communication network operated by a second wireless carrier different than the first wireless carrier. The account management service operating on resource may be agnostic to the transport and may function as long as there is network connectivity as it may be TCP IP based. In this manner user of the user profile by different devices may be carrier independent.

The identity management service of resource described herein may allow users to switch devices and manage resources in the cloud by strictly identifying the device with the account. Examples of resources that may be managed are backups of data exporting backup information executing a remote device wipe or data delete action viewing pictures stored in the cloud accessing shared data or other resource management actions.

According to one advantageous feature a non handheld computer such as a personal computer or a laptop computer could operate as the second computer. The second computer may receive a user ID and password for a user profile previously created for a user s handheld computing device. The second computer may be configured to transmit the user ID and password to the cloud and the cloud may be configured to respond by downloading an application such as a thin client having code configured to present a user interface similar to the user interface provided by the handheld computing device. For example a similar or same color scheme arrangement of application icons arrangement of contacts calendar e mail icons background photograph keyboard layout hard button arrangement etc. may be shown on a display coupled to the second computer as would be seen when holding the handheld computer. Application virtualization may be operable on one or more of the handheld computer cloud and second computing device to provide this feature. According to one embodiment user inputs may be received from the second computing device by interaction with a virtual image of the handheld computing device. Cloud may then pass the user inputs to the handheld device to control the handheld device. The handheld device may transmit changes in the user interface to the cloud to be passed to the second computing device for display to the user. In this way a user may access and control the handheld computing device from a second computing device.

According to another exemplary embodiment resource may be configured to authenticate each of the handheld device and the second computing device prior to associating each with the user profile. Resource may then be configured to facilitate synchronization of data between the handheld device and the second computing device because resource has certified the authenticity of both devices. Synchronization of data may comprise establishing consistency of data among two or more devices as well as maintaining consistency. The data may be personal data such as contacts calendar appointments e mails browser favorites etc.

According to one advantageous aspect the user profile may provide a roaming identity for a person which is unique to the person though available to multiple devices. A person may be allowed to switch devices and manage resources in the cloud because the cloud can identify the device with the account or user profile. The account or user profile then may become a secure way to store personal or private data.

According to another advantageous aspect the second computing device may be a replacement for a lost or stolen handheld computing device.

According to one embodiment data in the user profile can be used to access or retrieve other services available on or via the shared resource such as backup and restore of personal data software updates of an operating system and or applications operating on handheld device kill pill or lock operations to delete personal data from device or prevent access to part or all of device in the event it is lost or stolen and or other services. The other services may access data in the user profile as needed to operate their respective functionalities.

According to another exemplary embodiment the shared resource is configured to store conversion data used to convert or adapt data protocols formats graphics etc. from one to another of the computing devices as needed to allow the use of the user profile with the different device types having different device characteristics.

According to one embodiment the system operable in the shared resource is maintained or controlled by a manufacturer of device or another of devices while the shared resource may be maintained or controlled by a third party such as Google Amazon Microsoft or other companies.

According to another exemplary embodiment the user profile or account may comprise one or more of the data below. In some embodiments this user profile can be encoded as a text flat file in XML and or in other suitable formats.

According to another embodiment resource may be configured to provide a web page accessible via the Internet to allow a user to go online and change or add a configuration for device to move from one wireless carrier to another different wireless carrier. In this case the user profile data will go with the user from the first carrier to the second carrier without requiring a new registration or creation of a user profile or account. In this manner a user s personal data travels with the user instead of with the carrier by way of the user profile.

According to some advantageous aspects a user profile is carrier independent and or independent of the device. One user may be associated with more than one device. User profile information is tied to a user not to a device. When a user downloads an application resource registers that application against the user. When resource backs up data such as personal information management data the data is backed up against the user. Further a user may move from one device to another but still retain the user s identity. The devices may have the same operating system such as a webOS operating system or may have different operating systems.

According to some embodiments the systems and methods described herein may uniquely identify the user and the device they are using in a way that the user profile is re usable when the user moves between devices. The systems and methods may further deterministically determine that a same user is moving between devices and therefore provide services and manage user data without any direct dependency on a specific device.

According to some embodiments as the systems and methods described herein can determine the device they can together with the information about the user profile of the user using it provide services that are appropriate for that device specifically for example download only applications that are compatible with that device.

Referring now to a method of creating an account or establishing an identity or user profile will be described according to an exemplary embodiment. During a first use of the device e.g. after purchase an account service on the device e.g. part of the operating system of the device is configured to operate an account creation function. At operation account service is configured to request or retrieve a configuration or preferences from a preferences server operating in the cloud. The request may be an anonymous call which may not require authentication. Preferences server is configured to store data indicating where the various account services are e.g. their URLs or what the device needs to do to call them. Preferences server may be configured to return one or more account services URLs at an operation .

At operation account service is configured to request or retrieve device profile data from a device profile utility service . Device profile data may include for example the device ID identification of the cellular network the device is on etc. Some of the device profile data may be obtained from a telephony service operating on the device. All retrieved device profile data is returned to account service .

At operation a request is made to account server operable in the cloud to create an account with user and device profile. In this process the device is configured to prompt a user for an email address and password. The device sends credentials e.g. email and password to account server . Account server may validate the email to confirm that the communication is allowed authenticated and or that the device is not in use already. If the email is already in use by a user the user password is validated to a match. If not matched the user is prompted to re enter the password via account service . If the user fails to authenticate the password against an existing email the user cannot use the phone for wireless communications. If the user is authenticated with an existing email and password by account server at operation the user is logged in to the new device and logged out of a previous device if existing .

If the email is not in use the user is prompted for signing an end user license agreement EULA . If a new account is needed new account data is created in the cloud with new credentials and the user is asked for first name and last name which are sent to the server. The account server generates a token e.g. a GUID or global unique identifier which may comprise a one way hash function of certain data such as hardware identifiers MAC identifiers etc. At operation the account token is returned to account service . In future communications at least one or more of the e mail token and device ID are used to verify authenticity of communications from the device. In one embodiment all calls from the device to the server provide the e mail token and device ID which are checked at the server for a match as part of the authentication process.

At operation the account token is stored in a database local to the device. The database limits access to only certain applications to maintain security of the account token.

At operation an SMS is sent through an SMS service on the device to the server system in the cloud. This SMS may be a mobile originated message and may be used by the system to get a guaranteed phone number for the device.

The method described with reference to may provide one or more of uniquely identifying a device uniquely identifying a user associating a device with a user and generating and storing a unique token for authentication.

According to another exemplary embodiment resource may control access to user profile to allow multiple users to share a device but not at the same time.

Referring to a mobile device is shown. The teachings herein can be applied to device or to other electronic devices e.g. a desktop computer such as mobile computing devices e.g. a laptop computer or handheld computing devices such as a personal digital assistant PDA smartphone mobile telephone personal navigation device handheld digital camera handheld relative navigation device etc. According to one embodiment device may be a smartphone which is a combination mobile telephone and handheld computer having PDA functionality. PDA functionality can comprise one or more personal information management applications e.g. including personal data applications such as email calendar contacts etc. database functions word processing spreadsheets voice memo recording Global Positioning System GPS functionality etc. Device may be configured to synchronize e.g. two way file synchronization personal information from these applications with a computer e.g. a desktop laptop server etc. . Device may be further configured to receive and operate additional applications provided to device after manufacture e.g. via wired or wireless download such as from an application store operable on remote server computers Secure Digital card etc.

As shown in device includes a housing and a front and a back . Device further comprises a display and a user input device e.g. a QWERTY keyboard buttons touch screen microphone for speech recognition engine etc. . Display may comprise a touch screen display in order to provide user input to a processor see to control functions such as to select options displayed on display enter text input to device or enter other types of input. Display also provides images e.g. a geographic map application icons a web browser etc. that are displayed and may be viewed by users of device . User input device can provide similar inputs as those of touch screen display . An input button may be provided on front and may be configured to perform pre programmed functions. Device can further comprise a speaker a stylus not shown to assist the user in making selections on display a camera a camera flash a microphone and an earpiece . Display may comprise a capacitive touch screen a mutual capacitance touch screen a self capacitance touch screen a resistive touch screen a touch screen using cameras and light such as a surface multi touch screen proximity sensors or other touch screen technologies. Display may be configured to receive inputs from finger touches at a plurality of locations on display at the same time. Display may be configured to receive a finger swipe or other directional input which may be interpreted by a processing circuit to control certain functions distinct from a single touch input. Further a gesture area may be provided adjacent e.g. below above to a side etc. or be incorporated into display to receive various gestures as inputs including taps swipes drags flips pinches and so on including multiple touch and multiple swipe commands e.g. to zoom and or pan an image such as a geographic map . One or more indicator areas e.g. lights etc. may be provided to indicate that a gesture has been received from a user.

According to an exemplary embodiment housing is configured to hold a screen such as display in a fixed or movable e.g. slidable rotatable hinged etc. relationship above a user input device such as user input device in a substantially parallel or same plane or in a different plane. This fixed relationship excludes a hinged or movable relationship between the screen and the user input device e.g. a plurality of keys in the fixed embodiment.

Device may be a handheld computer which is a computer small enough to be carried in a hand of a user comprising such devices as typical mobile telephones and personal digital assistants but excluding typical laptop computers and tablet PCs. The various input devices and other components of device as described below may be positioned anywhere on device e.g. the front surface shown in the rear surface shown in the side surfaces as shown in etc. . Furthermore various components such as a keyboard etc. may be retractable to slide in and out from a portion of device to be revealed along any of the sides of device etc. For example as shown in front may be slidably adjustable relative to back to reveal input device such that in a retracted configuration see input device is not visible and in an extended configuration see input device is visible.

According to various exemplary embodiments housing may be any size shape and have a variety of length width thickness and volume dimensions. For example width may be no more than about 200 millimeters mm 100 mm 85 mm or 65 mm or alternatively at least about 30 mm 50 mm or 55 mm. Length may be no more than about 200 mm 150 mm 135 mm or 125 mm or alternatively at least about 70 mm or 100 mm. Thickness may be no more than about 150 mm 50 mm 25 mm or 15 mm or alternatively at least about 10 mm 15 mm or 50 mm. The volume of housing may be no more than about 2500 cubic centimeters cc or 1500 cc or alternatively at least about 1000 cc or 600 cc.

Device may provide voice communications or telephony functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems may include Code Division Multiple Access CDMA cellular radiotelephone communication systems Global System for Mobile Communications GSM cellular radiotelephone systems etc.

In addition to voice communications functionality device may be configured to provide data communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems offering data communications services may include GSM with General Packet Radio Service GPRS systems GSM GPRS CDMA 1 RTT systems Enhanced Data Rates for Global Evolution EDGE systems Evolution Data Only or Evolution Data Optimized EV DO systems Long Term Evolution LTE systems etc.

Device may be configured to provide voice and or data communications functionality in accordance with different types of wireless network systems. Examples of wireless network systems may include a wireless local area network WLAN system wireless metropolitan area network WMAN system wireless wide area network WWAN system and so forth. Examples of suitable wireless network systems offering data communication services may include the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.xx series of protocols such as the IEEE 802.11a b g n series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiFi the IEEE 802.16 series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiMAX the IEEE 802.20 series of standard protocols and variants and so forth.

Device may be configured to perform data communications in accordance with different types of shorter range wireless systems such as a wireless personal area network PAN system. One example of a suitable wireless PAN system offering data communication services may include a Bluetooth system operating in accordance with the Bluetooth Special Interest Group SIG series of protocols including Bluetooth Specification versions v1.0 v1.1 v1.2 v2.0 v2.0 with Enhanced Data Rate EDR as well as one or more Bluetooth Profiles etc.

As shown in the embodiment of device may comprise a processing circuit having a dual processor architecture including a host processor and a radio processor e.g. a base band processor . The host processor and the radio processor may be configured to communicate with each other using interfaces such as one or more universal serial bus USB interfaces micro USB interfaces universal asynchronous receiver transmitter UART interfaces general purpose input output GPIO interfaces control status lines control data lines shared memory and so forth.

The host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as application programs and system programs to provide computing and processing operations for device . The radio processor may be responsible for performing various voice and data communications operations for device such as transmitting and receiving voice and data information over one or more wireless communications channels. Although embodiments of the dual processor architecture may be described as comprising the host processor and the radio processor for purposes of illustration the dual processor architecture of device may comprise additional processors may be implemented as a dual or multi core chip with both host processor and radio processor on a single chip etc.

In various embodiments the host processor may be implemented as a host central processing unit CPU using any suitable processor or logic device such as a general purpose processor. The host processor may comprise or be implemented as a chip multiprocessor CMP dedicated processor embedded processor media processor input output I O processor co processor a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic device PLD or other processing device in alternative embodiments. In an exemplary embodiment host processor is an OMAP2 such as an OMAP2431 processor manufactured by Texas Instruments Inc.

The host processor may be configured to provide processing or computing resources to device . For example the host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as application programs and system programs to provide computing and processing operations for device . Examples of application programs may include for example a telephone application voicemail application e mail application instant message IM application short message service SMS application multimedia message service MMS application web browser application personal information manager PIM application contact management application calendar application scheduling application task management application word processing application spreadsheet application database application video player application audio player application multimedia player application digital camera application video camera application media management application a gaming application and so forth. The application software may provide a graphical user interface GUI to communicate information between device and a user.

System programs assist in the running of the computer system. System programs may be directly responsible for controlling integrating and managing the individual hardware components of the computer system. Examples of system programs may include for example an operating system OS device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries an application programming interface API graphical user interface GUI a username password protection program and so forth. Device may utilize any suitable OS in accordance with the described embodiments such as a Palm webOS Palm OS Palm OS Cobalt Microsoft Windows OS Microsoft Windows CE Microsoft Pocket PC Microsoft Windows Mobile Symbian OS Embedix OS Linux Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS a Wireless Application Protocol WAP OS etc.

Device may comprise a memory coupled to the host processor and a memory coupled to the radio processor . In various embodiments memories may be configured to store one or more software programs to be executed by the host processor and or radio processor . The memory may be implemented using any machine readable or computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Examples of machine readable storage media may include without limitation random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM read only memory ROM flash memory or any other type of media suitable for storing information.

Although the memory may be shown as being separate from the host processor for purposes of illustration in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as the host processor . Alternatively some portion or the entire memory may be disposed on an integrated circuit or other medium e.g. hard disk drive external to the integrated circuit of host processor . In various embodiments device may comprise an expansion slot to support a multimedia and or memory card for example.

Device may comprise a user input device coupled to the host processor . The user input device may comprise for example a QWERTY and or alphanumeric key layout and an integrated number dial pad. Device also may comprise various keys buttons and switches such as for example input keys preset and programmable hot keys left and right action buttons a navigation button such as a multidirectional navigation button phone send and power end buttons preset and programmable shortcut buttons a volume rocker switch a ringer on off switch having a vibrate mode a keypad an alphanumeric keypad and so forth.

The host processor may be coupled to a display . The display may comprise any suitable visual interface for displaying content to a user of device . For example the display may be implemented by a liquid crystal display LCD such as a touch sensitive color e.g. 16 bit color thin film transistor TFT LCD screen. In some embodiments the touch sensitive LCD may be used with a stylus and or a handwriting recognizer program.

Device may comprise an input output I O interface coupled to the host processor . The I O interface may comprise one or more I O devices such as a serial connection port an infrared port integrated Bluetooth wireless capability and or integrated 802.11x WiFi wireless capability to enable wired e.g. USB cable and or wireless connection to a local computer system such as a local personal computer PC . In various implementations device may be configured to transfer and or synchronize information with the local computer system.

The host processor may be coupled to various audio video A V devices that support A V capability of device . Examples of A V devices may include for example a microphone one or more speakers an audio port to connect an audio headset an audio coder decoder codec an audio player a digital camera a video camera a video codec a video player and so forth.

The host processor may be coupled to a power supply configured to supply and manage power to the elements of device . In various embodiments the power supply may be implemented by a rechargeable battery such as a removable and rechargeable lithium ion battery to provide direct current DC power and or an alternating current AC adapter to draw power from a standard AC main power supply.

As mentioned above the radio processor may perform voice and or data communication operations for device . For example the radio processor may be configured to communicate voice information and or data information over one or more assigned frequency bands of a wireless communication channel. In various embodiments the radio processor may be implemented as a communications processor using any suitable processor or logic device such as a modem processor or base band processor. The radio processor may comprise or be implemented as a digital signal processor DSP media access control MAC processor or any other type of communications processor in accordance with the described embodiments. Radio processor may be any of a plurality of modems manufactured by Qualcomm Inc. or other manufacturers.

In various embodiments the radio processor may perform analog and or digital base band operations for device . For example the radio processor may perform digital to analog conversion DAC analog to digital conversion ADC modulation demodulation encoding decoding encryption decryption and so forth.

Device may comprise a transceiver module coupled to the radio processor . The transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers configured to communicate using different types of protocols communication ranges operating power requirements RF sub bands information types e.g. voice or data use scenarios applications and so forth. In various embodiments the transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers configured to support voice communication for a cellular radiotelephone system such as a GSM UMTS CDMA and or LTE system. The transceiver module also may comprise one or more transceivers configured to perform data communications in accordance with one or more wireless communications protocols such as WWAN protocols e.g. GSM GPRS protocols CDMA 1 RTT protocols EDGE protocols EV DO protocols EV DV protocols HSDPA protocols etc. WLAN protocols e.g. IEEE 802.11a b g n IEEE 802.16 IEEE 802.20 etc. PAN protocols Infrared protocols Bluetooth protocols EMI protocols including passive or active RFID protocols and so forth.

The transceiver module may be implemented using one or more chips as desired for a given implementation. Although the transceiver module may be shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration in various embodiments some portion or the entire transceiver module may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor .

Device may comprise an antenna system for transmitting and or receiving electrical signals. As shown the antenna system may be coupled to the radio processor through the transceiver module . The antenna system may comprise or be implemented as one or more internal antennas and or external antennas.

Device may comprise a subscriber identity module SIM coupled to the radio processor . The SIM may comprise for example a removable or non removable smart card configured to encrypt voice and data transmissions and to store user specific data for allowing a voice or data communications network to identify and authenticate the user. The SIM also may store data such as personal settings specific to the user.

Device may comprise an I O interface coupled to the radio processor . The I O interface may comprise one or more I O devices to enable wired e.g. serial cable etc. and or wireless e.g. WiFi short range etc. communication between device and one or more external computer systems.

In various embodiments device may comprise location or position determination capabilities. Device may employ one or more absolute position determination techniques including for example Global Positioning System GPS techniques Cell Global Identity CGI techniques CGI including timing advance TA techniques Assisted GPS AGPS techniques hybrid techniques etc. A Wi Fi Positioning System may be used as another type of absolute positioning system such as one provided by Skyhook Wireless Inc. Boston Mass. For example an absolute positioning circuit may be configured to collect Wi Fi identifier data from a plurality of nearby Wi Fi access points e.g. any wireless transceiver communicating according to an IEEE 802.11x protocol and retrieve a latitude longitude or other absolute position from a database by looking up the Wi Fi access point identifiers received in the position of interest. In another example a Wi Fi access point may be configured to transmit its absolute position and device may be configured to determine that its absolute position is the position of the Wi Fi access point within a predetermined error. Another type of absolute positioning system having less accuracy than GPS is a Cell ID triangulation positioning system such as one provided by Telmap Ltd. London United Kingdom.

Referring again to processing circuit may comprise a relative position determination circuit shown in exemplary form as a part of the radio processor though circuit may be part of host processor or any other portion of processing circuit . The relative position determination circuit may comprise circuitry and or software configured to provide relative position data for device relative to an object.

In various embodiments device may comprise dedicated hardware circuits or structures or a combination of dedicated hardware and associated software to support absolute and or relative position determination. For example the transceiver module and the antenna system may comprise GPS receiver or transceiver hardware and one or more associated antennas coupled to the radio processor to support position determination.

The host processor may comprise and or implement at least one LBS location based service application. In general the LBS application may comprise any type of client application executed by the host processor such as a GPS application configured to communicate location requests e.g. requests for position fixes and location responses. Examples of LBS applications include without limitation wireless emergency services roadside assistance asset tracking fleet management friends and family locator services dating services and navigation services which may provide the user with maps directions routing traffic updates mass transit schedules information regarding local points of interest POI such as restaurants hotels landmarks and entertainment venues and other types of LBS services in accordance with the described embodiments.

Radio processor also may set request response parameters to request and return various types of position information. Examples of request response parameters may include current location latitude longitude altitude heading vector information such as horizontal and vertical velocity sector based position location position fix method level of accuracy time offset position uncertainty device orientation client initialization and registration and so forth.

Various embodiments disclosed herein may include or be implemented in connection with computer readable media configured to store machine executable instructions therein and or one or more modules circuits units or other elements that may comprise analog and or digital circuit components e.g. a processor or other processing circuit configured or arranged to perform one or more of the steps recited herein. By way of example computer readable media may include non transitory media such as RAM ROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage flash memory or any other medium capable of storing and providing access to desired machine executable instructions. The use of circuit or module herein is meant to broadly encompass any one or more of discrete circuit components analog and or digital circuit components integrated circuits solid state devices and or programmed portions of any of the foregoing including microprocessors microcontrollers ASICs programmable logic or other electronic devices.

While the detailed drawings specific examples and particular formulations given describe exemplary embodiments they serve the purpose of illustration only. The hardware and software configurations shown and described may differ depending on the chosen performance characteristics and physical characteristics of the computing devices. The systems shown and described are not limited to the precise details and conditions disclosed. Furthermore other substitutions modifications changes and omissions may be made in the design operating conditions and arrangement of the exemplary embodiments without departing from the scope of the present disclosure as expressed in the appended claims.

