---

title: Methods and systems for electronic payment for on-street parking
abstract: This disclosure describes a method of payment for parking of a vehicle including determining the location of the vehicle with a wireless communication device. Determining the location includes using a satellite radio navigation system such as GPS with the facility for user provided corrections and avoiding the use of zone IDs. The method also includes automatically extending an initiated parking session with subsequent prepaid time durations until certain predetermined conditions are met. The method includes automatically determining the end of an initiated parking session based on detecting movement of the vehicle away from a parking spot provided the Handset containing the parking payment App has sensed a Bluetooth tag in the vehicle or paired with the built-in Bluetooth system of the vehicle. The method also includes targeted parking enforcement where parked vehicles are identified wirelessly by short range radio beacons emitted by tags placed in/on the vehicles and their session status checked with information downloaded from a parking application server.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09373197&OS=09373197&RS=09373197
owner: TRANSPARENT WIRELESS SYSTEMS, LLC
number: 09373197
owner_city: Vienna
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150715
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 482 369 filed Sep. 10 2014 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 862 619 filed Apr. 15 2013 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 687 333 filed Apr. 23 2012 hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties. This application also claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 880 001 filed Sep. 19 2013 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 888 793 filed Oct. 9 2013 and U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 970 161 filed Mar. 25 2014 hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

The invention relates to the fields of wireless mobile commerce cashless parking and wireless payment for parking including on street parking.

Any parking system consists of the following main features a authorization a method of seeking permission to park by the user and by the Parking Authority to grant authorization b payment a method of collecting payment from the user c validation a method of checking whether the authorized time has run out or the vehicle was never authorized d enforcement a method used by the parking authority for penalizing vehicles that have not paid or have overstayed their authorized time. The term targeted enforcement refers to enforcement that is selectively targeted at a subset of the general population of vehicles.

These requirements are fundamental they are present in legacy systems and continue to be requirements for new systems. Modern systems and methods are using wireless technologies to improve consumer experience and reduce the cost of providing service while still meeting the above requirements. Some examples of prior art methods are described below.

A mechanical device known as a parking meter is permanently mounted on the sidewalk and associated with a particular marked parking space on the street. The user person wishing to occupy a parking space inserts coins of denominations usually specified on the parking meter into a slot in the meter. The total value of the coins inserted corresponds to an authorized parking duration which is displayed by the meter. As time elapses a clockwork mechanism in the meter reduces the authorized time until the latter is completely exhausted. Thereupon a prominent sign often a red flag that the authorized time has expired is displayed. If a vehicle is parked in a spot where the meter has run out it is liable to be penalized by the parking authority often by being given a paper ticket. Human collectors periodically collect the coins deposited in the meters.

More recently owing to the difficulty of maintenance and payment collection coin operated parking meters are being replaced with multi space payment kiosks. A kiosk may serve a large number of open access i.e. non gated numbered or un numbered parking spaces. The user parks his vehicle in an available space enters his space number if the parking spaces are numbered on the operating console of the kiosk and requests to occupy the specified space for a specified time period. The kiosk issues a paper ticket or token containing the space number and the authorized time sometimes by specifying the time of day when the token expires. If the parking spaces are un numbered the ticket does not contain a space number field. The user is required to display the ticket prominently so that parking authority agents may inspect vehicles for enforcement.

In the past several years a number of wireless payment systems have been introduced to replace the coin operated meter and the payment kiosks described in the previous sections. In most cases a cellphone or Handset is involved and the systems are generally referred to as pay by cell. This has been facilitated by the fact that modern cellphones Handsets can engage in payment transactions with a remote server either via commonly available cellular data services or through automated voice activated systems. The Verrus system is an example of prior art use of wireless means for parking authorization and payment.

In the Verrus system the user s credentials such as mobile phone number vehicle license plate number credit card number and other information are required to be pre registered with Verrus . Once registered the user can park his vehicle in parking lots with which Verrus has established a business arrangement to allow its method of remote payment. The following are prominently displayed in the lot a the fact that this is a Verrus authorized parking lot and b a parking lot ID number. The user sends an SMS or makes a phone call to communicate the parking lot ID and her requested parking duration. Parking authority agents Checkers can verify the authorization status of parked vehicles by accessing the Verrus server which is remotely accessible to the Checker.

Other similar systems have also been deployed in many major cities. For example a cashless parking system has been developed by Parkmobile and deployed in several states in the United States. As in the Verrus system the user has a prearranged payment agreement with Parkmobile which is the Parking Service Provider. In order to initiate a parking session the user has to communicate a Parking Zone ID to a Parkmobile server via his mobile phone. This communication can occur by calling a phone number or entering data on the user s mobile phone as part of executing a downloaded mobile application. The method of enforcement is based on a Checker determining the compliance status of each individual vehicle with respect to the duration of stay and the paid parking fee using a handheld Checking Terminal to access the Parking Application Server.

Although remote wireless payment systems and methods in support of parking applications are burgeoning in the prior art these systems currently offer suboptimal user and Checker experiences. Some examples are provided below.

In the prior art systems requesting parking authorization requires the user to perform one or more of the following operations a make a phone call and verbally communicate various information including the Parking Zone ID b manually send an SMS with the above information c find and read the zone ID applicable to given parking spot launch an application on a smart phone and enter data in response to a query from the application. Performing these operations while parked on a busy and noisy street is inconvenient and potentially risky.

Both user and Checker experiences are significantly improved in the present invention. The Checker s job has actually been made more difficult in some prior art wireless parking payment systems. For example in the Parkmobile system vehicle s belonging to Parkmobile customers are parked beside other vehicles with no features distinguishing the Parkmobile vehicles. A vehicle of the latter type may be parked in front of a legacy coin meter with an indication of expired session e.g. a red flag . For every vehicle so parked the Checker has to first ascertain if it is a Parkmobile vehicle before he can issue a fine ticket . This ascertaining may be performed by the Checker manually entering the license plate number of the vehicle on to a handheld Checking Terminal connected wirelessly to a Parkmobile server and the server responding with a message stating whether the vehicle is a Parkmobile customer s vehicle with an expired session. The task may be slightly lightened by the license plate being scanned and uploaded to the server electronically. Nevertheless it is noteworthy that even if a single Parkmobile vehicle is present among ten other vehicles which are not Parkmobile vehicles the Checker has to perform the above process for each one of the eleven vehicles. Before the Parkmobile system was introduced the Checker could issue tickets purely based on the indicated status of the coin meter.

It is further noteworthy that as present pay by cell systems do not indicate the parked locations of their vehicles with a spatial resolution better than a city block a city block is the range typically covered by a Zone ID in the Parkmobile system and Zone ID is the highest resolution of vehicle location information available in that system the Checker has to do a considerable amount of hunting to find the approximate locations of vehicles participating in these systems. As explained above when these vehicles are intermingled with legacy vehicles not participating in the pay by cell system it greatly increases the workload of the Checker.

Embodiments are drawn to methods and systems of payment for parking of a vehicle including determining the location of the vehicle with a wireless communication device. Determining the location includes using a satellite navigation system such as GPS and additionally allows the user to make corrections to the indicated position if desired. The method also includes initiating a parking session having a first prepaid time duration with the server and transmitting the location of the wireless communication device and an identity of the vehicle to the server. The method also includes automatically extending the parking session with subsequent prepaid time durations until at least one of the following conditions is reached the user closes the parking session a maximum parking session is reached a free parking period begins or the parking session closes on detection of movement of the vehicle away from a parking spot.

In embodiments of the present invention the location is automatically sensed by a User Platform which may be a cellular Handset or equivalent functionality built into a vehicle the platform using a positioning technology such as the Global Positioning System GPS . This location estimate may be augmented by other positioning technologies such as those using known locations of WiFi access point locations of cellular base stations and in the case where the parking application is built into the electronic system of the vehicle on board motion sensors like inertial navigation systems.

An embodiment relates to a system of payment for parking of a vehicle including a wireless communication device including a positioning module configured to determine a location of the wireless communication device a transceiver configured to communicate with a server a processor operably connected to the positioning module and the transceiver. The processor is configured to determine the location of the wireless device initiate a parking session with the server and transmit the location of the wireless communication device and an ID of the vehicle or the user to the server and allow a user to provide corrections to the location determined by positioning module.

It is well known that in dense urban canyons satellite navigation such as GPS often provides relatively large position errors owing to limited satellite visibility and multipath propagation. This was recognized in U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 215 255 and 8 140 265 where complex filtering methods were proposed to improve the accuracy nevertheless it was admitted that in spite of such filtering dependence on motion sensors might be necessary to improve the accuracy. In the present invention user inputs are used to correct the indicated position. The user input may be realized though several embodiments.

In one embodiment of user provided correction a User Platform indicates an estimated position on an electronic map which position may be corrected by the user based on an awareness of his whereabouts. As in prior art navigation systems currently available in Handsets and vehicles the user may be aided by the map displaying prominent landmarks and street names. The user may correct the User Platform indicated position by selecting a position on the displayed map different from the indicated position. The inputting of an alternate position may be performed by the user touching a touch sensitive display screen using technologies known in the prior art.

When the User Platform is a Handset as opposed to similar electronics built into the car it is clear that it may be used with different vehicles at different times. In prior art systems such as Parkmobile the user is required to enter the license plate number of the vehicle that is to be associated with a given Handset whose ID is known to the Parking Application Server shortcuts such as defaulting to the last used vehicle or selecting one of a list of stored vehicle IDs are also supported . In an embodiment the vehicle associated with a Handset is determined automatically by enabling the Handset to sense the vehicle s ID with an identification device located in on the vehicle and causing this identification device to trigger a software application App in the Handset. The App reads the vehicle ID transmitted by the identification device and stores it in the Handset s memory. The stored vehicle ID is used in parking applications executed on the Handset and remains the default vehicle ID until and unless it is overwritten by another act of automatic sensing by the Handset of vehicle ID or an act of manual override to the automatically sensed vehicle ID.

Various methods of vehicle ID sensing are possible including but not limited to the following optical scanning of a bar code including QR code RFID interrogation of an RFID tag located in on the vehicle Bluetooth transaction performed with a Bluetooth device located in on the vehicle the Bluetooth device ID being associated with the vehicle ID.

An embodiment relates to a system to determine the identity of a vehicle by a wireless communications device located in vehicle using a separate identification device also located in the vehicle. The wireless communication device is able to sense a beacon signal emitted by the identification device with a sensor or receiver in the wireless communication device. The wireless communications device includes a transceiver configured to communicate with a server and a processor. The processor is configured to sense an identity of the vehicle from the identification device and communicate the identity to the server. The beacon signal may comprise a Bluetooth Low Energy BLE signal.

It is preferable for the Parking Application Server to know when a parking session has ended. The termination time of the parking session determines the expired unexpired status of the session making the user potentially liable for fines if the session has expired. Furthermore knowledge of the time overage the time by which the user has overstayed the parking session may be used by a parking authority to graduate the fine e.g. smaller fines for smaller overages . In some markets by Parking Authority policy the user is required to buy a predetermined amount of session time at the onset of the session. In such markets some legacy systems such as Parkmobile provide no provision for the user to end an active parking session although such provision is made in other markets where the Parking Authority policy allows the user to pay for the actual duration of stay. In the present system regardless of whether the user is required to buy a predetermined amount of session time or pay for actually consumed session time the user is allowed and incentivized to close the session as this unambiguously determines the session status expired or unexpired of all parked vehicles belonging to the present system. In case the user forgets to close the session the present system is able to automatically determine that the session has ended that is the user has moved the vehicle from the parked location as described below.

When the position location function or module is always physically tied to the vehicle as in the case where the parking application is run on the vehicle s electronic system the ending of a session may be determined without user cooperation by monitoring i the location indicated by the vehicle s position location subsystem and ii the time rate of change of the indicated location. If both i and ii show changes greater than appropriately chosen threshold values it may be concluded that the vehicle has left its parked spot. Examples of threshold values may be 20 200 m such as 50 150 m such as 100 m and 6 20 km hour such as 10 15 km hour but other values may be used without departing from the teachings of this invention. In an embodiment both location and speed may be used to determine if the vehicle has moved as limited satellite visibility and multipath in dense urban canyons can cause the indicated position to wander slowly around an indicated mean position.

When the position location function e.g. GPS is part of a portable wireless communications device such as a Handset carried by the user the above determination may be more difficult. This is because the user leaving the vehicle and walking away might trigger a similar response from the GPS as when the vehicle is moved. In the present embodiment of the system this problem is solved by making a determination that the user is in the vehicle as a precondition for automatically declaring session closure. The determination that the user is in the vehicle is made by the Handset checking that a wireless beacon emitted by an identification device located in on the vehicle can be sensed by the Handset. That is the power of the signal received from the identification device is above a threshold value. The above identification device may be the same device that is used for identifying the vehicle to the Handset as described above.

When the Handset automatically closes a parking session an advisory alerting message may be sent to the user and the Parking Application Server to distinguish this type of session closure from one initiated by the user.

As described in the Background section above the Checker s experience has deteriorated with the recently introduced pay by cell systems. Embodiments described herein improve the checking experience. This is done by the means described below.

Real time access to vehicle attributes and presentation thereof The Checker is provided with a handheld Checking Terminal which is wirelessly connected such as via a cellular data link to the Parking Application Server. The Terminal may be also equipped with the following capabilities position location ability based on a technology such as GPS display software applications. In one embodiment the Checker determines an area to be surveyed for targeted enforcement parking session validation and fine ticket issuance . This targeted area is uploaded by the user using the Checking Terminal to the Parking Application Server. In response the Server downloads the list and attributes of all vehicles that are registered with the Server and located in the targeted area. This list may be displayed with symbols such as green and red dots on a map on the Checking Terminal together with the position of the Terminal the green dots indicating the locations of vehicles with unexpired sessions and the red dots indicating the locations of vehicles with expired sessions.

The method system of accessing real time vehicle attribute data and presenting the data to the Checker in a manner facilitating rapid checking of parked vehicles may be used in conjunction with other systems including legacy systems regardless of the means used to track the locations of parked vehicles. The vehicle locations may be known with less accuracy than in the system of the present invention but the teachings thereof may still be applicable to improve the Checker experience. Other symbols e.g. squares triangles diamonds etc. and colors e.g. blue yellow orange etc. and their combination may be used.

Rapid wireless determination of vehicle ID for Session Status Checking using RF Query Response In an embodiment all vehicles participating in the system of this invention have in on them a short range RF transponder referred to as a tag which is capable of responding with its identity ID and other information to a query using the same RF technology. One example of such a query response RF technology is RFID but the methods taught herein may be used with other wireless transponder technologies. The tag described above may be obtained separately from the vehicle but kept in or on it similar to present highway toll collection tags transponders. The tag function used to support parking operations may also be built into and combined with a high toll collection function thereby creating a multi function tag. As an alternative embodiment the tag function necessary to support parking operations may also be built into the vehicle s electronic system.

In an embodiment of the present system the Checker performs session validation targeted enforcement as follows. In the vicinity of the parked vehicles within the coverage range of the wireless technology the Checking Terminal either under user control or autonomously issues a set of queries in response to which all vehicles within coverage range respond with their IDs and other information. As described above the Checking Terminal has received from the Parking Application Server a downloaded file containing the IDs and session status of all vehicles in the targeted area. The file may also contain one or more attributes of the vehicles that may facilitate recognition such as some combination of license plate number physical description of the vehicle and an image of the vehicle. The Checking Terminal software compares the wireless responses from the parked vehicles with the expired vehicle data in the downloaded file and identifies the vehicles with expired vehicle sessions. In alternative embodiments less than all of the vehicles in the coverage area are queried.

In some embodiments the Checker may issue wireless queries from a slowly moving vehicle without leaving the vehicle this is referred to as drive by checking.

An embodiment relates to a system of identification of vehicles with an expired parking status including a wireless identification tag in or on a parked vehicle and a portable Checking Terminal capable of wirelessly reading the wireless identification tag. The portable Checking Terminal is configured to receive information associated with a parked vehicle from a server and the portable checking terminal wirelessly interrogates the wireless identification tags in or on the parked vehicle to identify the parked vehicles with expired parking sessions.

Rapid wireless determination of vehicle ID for Sessions Status Checking using RF Beacon located in on the vehicle In another embodiment of the present system the Checker s Terminal may receive beacon signals emitted by identification devices placed in on the vehicles when the Checker is within coverage range of the identification devices without issuing queries to the identification devices. As in the case of RFID based vehicle identification described above the beacon signals also allow the Checker s Terminal to identify the vehicles. The process of comparing the wirelessly sensed vehicle IDs with vehicle information downloaded from the Parking Application Server and thereby identifying vehicles with expired sessions is similar in both methods that is methods using RFID queries and beacons.

The identification devices used for sessions status checking using beacons described above may be the same device as used for identifying the vehicle to the Handset and for automatic session closure.

Another embodiment relates to a system of payment for parking in open streets using one or more functional subsystems built into the electronic system of a vehicle including a wireless data modem or User Platform configured to communicate with a server a parking application software loaded into an electronic system of the vehicle a positioning subsystem configured to use a satellite navigation technology and an inertial navigation technology. The positioning subsystem can automatically sense the vehicle s location and the parking application is configured to send a location and a vehicle identity or user identity to the server as inputs for starting a parking session.

The present invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which typical embodiments of the invention are shown. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided as examples of how to implement the principles described in this invention.

Checker An agent of a Parking Authority who is responsible for validating the status paid unpaid expired unexpired of a parking session for a given vehicle. In the literature the person is also referred to as an Enforcement Officer EO .

Checking Terminal A handheld terminal used by the Checker to perform validation of parking sessions or targeted enforcement of parked vehicles.

Handset Any wireless device such as a cellular Handset smartphone or personal data device carried by a user and used to access the internet.

Parking Application Server A server operated by the Parking Service Provider connected to the interne and running parking applications.

Parking Authority An entity that owns a parking facility and collects fees for its use. Examples are municipal parking authorities and commercial parking garages.

User Platform An electronic system including some or all of the following positioning location subsystems cellular radio modems and radio modems for short range RF technologies such as RFID where the electronic system supports a parking payment application. Examples are Handset and the electronic system of a vehicle.

Parking Service Provider PSP A service provider providing parking payment and other value added services.

Parking Zone ID An ID typically a string of letters and numbers used to identify a collection of parking spaces subject to a common tariff rate.

Payment Service Provider An entity providing payment services to the Parking Service Provider. Examples are VISA PayPal banks.

Street Parking Parking in any open area where there is no access barrier to the available parking spots. This category includes both actual street parking and parking in open lots with no access control.

In the present application the term User Platform is sometimes used to mean either a Handset or a vehicular electronic system especially when the functions described could be performed by either. However for specificity some examples are provided in of how some of the use cases described below for a Handset could be adapted to a vehicular electronic system.

The usage scenario or use case illustrated in involves a user parking in an open street and launching a parking App to Start a parking session. In modern Handsets a common way to launch an App is to touch an icon on a touch sensitive display screen. An exemplary list of App icons is shown in Handset Screen including one for parking PSP where PSP is an example of a Parking Service Provider company name . In all examples in this invention disclosure an icon selected by the user according to the narrative is shown shaded.

When the user selects or touches the PSP icon in Handset Screen which is shown as a root screen from which all Apps are launched in the examples described herein the browser opens a subsequent page where a number of parking options are displayed. As illustrated in Handset Screen may be thought of as a root screen for parking Apps as well as the starting screen for a number of administrative options such as Profile and Settings. It should be noted that the screen sequences described here are only examples of user interfaces for parking applications and that other designs are possible within the scope of the teachings of this disclosure.

For the present scenario street parking the user selects on Screen which leads by browser action to Handset Screen . Here the following may be displayed i the vehicle s license plate e.g. VA ABCD123 which may be sensed automatically as described below ii the location of the user as indicated by the Handset s position location subsystem iii option for the user to either accept the indicated location by selecting or correct the indicated position by selecting for example by touching a different position on the display screen than the one indicated.

The position indicated by a Handset s position location subsystem is expected to be sufficiently accurate for parking operations in most environments. In such environments with GPS unassisted by inertial navigation but assisted by other technologies such as knowledge of cellular base stations and Wi Fi access points an accuracy of 5 10 m is common. However in dense urban canyons owing to blockage of satellite signals and multipath propagation the accuracy may be degraded beyond that acceptable for parking applications such as introducing an ambiguity error regarding the street the vehicle is on. An example of such an ambiguous indication is shown in Handset Screen . When the User Platform is integrated into a vehicular electronic system assistance to the GPS subsystem may be available from an inertial navigation system which may increase the position accuracy to a level sufficient to enable parking in deep urban canyons without user corrections of the indicated position.

The selection of an alternate position may be performed in a variety of ways including but not limited to touching a selected location on a touch sensitive screen or moving a cursor to the selected location and pushing a button. In order to aid the user in gaining awareness of his whereabouts the displayed map may indicate major landmarks such as well known buildings and bridges as well as street names.

The selection of by the user on Handset Screen sends a message over a cellular data link to the Parking Application Server indicating that a Handset of specified ID and location wishes to initiate a street parking session. The Server authenticates the user and sends information back to the Handset about the current parking rates and restrictions at the stated location. This information is referred to as the parking terms and conditions. An example thereof is displayed in Handset Screen which also shows a screen allowing the user to enter a pre committed amount of parking session time.

Whether the user is required to purchase a pre committed amount of session time at the start of the session or whether he is allowed to pay only for the actual amount of consumed session time at the end of the session is largely driven by the parking authority s policy. Even when purchase of pre committed session time is mandated by policy most parking authorities allow remote extension of session time by the user using his Handset. In the present system in the case of pre committed session time a user experience corresponding to post session payment of consumed session time is created by automatic without user action renewal of the session by the Parking Application Server in small time quanta agreed to by the user. This relieves the user of having to manually perform remote session extensions which may be difficult if he is in a meeting or out of cellular coverage. It also ensures that his excess payment relative to a pure post session payment system is a fraction of the auto renewal time quantum. This is discussed further with respect to .

If the user has chosen the auto renewal option of the present system the requirement to enter the pre committed session time illustrated in is redundant. The screen may show that auto renewal mode is on and the user is simply required to select . It may be recalled that reducing the number of user inputs and thereby improving the user experience is one advantage of the present system.

In a variation of the embodiment described above information about the parking terms and conditions may be stored in the Handset. This avoids the exchange of a cellular data link message between the Handset and the Parking Application Server corresponding to the request and downloading of the parking rates and restriction information and thereby reduces the process latency but may increase the storage requirement on the Handset. The choice of a particular embodiment is a matter of design choice. If the parking terms and conditions are dynamic as is increasingly being preferred by many parking authorities changes to the above terms and conditions may be pushed out to all Handsets subscribing to the parking payment service and located in the geographic areas covered by the terms and conditions.

Handset Screen allows the user to cancel the transaction if for example the rates and restrictions are deemed unacceptable. This feature may increase in importance in the future as the present trend is for Parking Authorities to move to dynamic rates that change with parking spot occupancy levels. The user may choose not to park at the present location after reviewing the rates and restrictions.

The user s commitment to park at the selected spot occurs when he selects on Handset Screen . This leads to a request confirm cellular data transaction with the Parking Application Server responsive to which Handset Screen is displayed which is the last screen of this embodiment of the Start Parking process. The screen shows the session Start time the scheduled End time for pre committed session times the vehicle ID license plate number and the vehicle s location which may provide an additional user benefit in helping him to locate the vehicle on his return . This screen comprises and example of an Active Session status screen which the user may view remotely on his Handset at all times until the session has ended.

The transaction ladder diagram for End Parking in the Street Parking case is shown in . As in the diagram shows the sequence of steps in the time domain including the point at which a cellular data link transaction occurs with the Parking Application Server.

Effecting session closure is given importance in the present system owing to the checking targeted enforcement benefits derived from knowing clearly whether a car with an active session is still parked. Without this knowledge it is not possible to unambiguously identify vehicles with expired sessions. Therefore the present system has the ability to automatically cause session closure.

A session is closed automatically when it has been determined that a vehicle has been moved from its parked location. This determination is made by detecting movement of the vehicle based on a the change in the mean position of the vehicle exceeding a predetermined threshold and or b the speed of the vehicle as reported by the positioning subsystem in the User Platform exceeding a predetermined threshold. When the User Platform comprises the positioning subsystem built into the vehicle s electronics that is tied to the vehicle the position reported by the User Platform may be taken to be that of the vehicle hence session closure can be based exclusively on the reported mean position and time rate of change of the above mean position. Note that the mean position averaged over a selected time period such as 2 10 s such as 5 s is used in the above method instead of the instantaneous position. This is because the instantaneous position reported by a satellite navigation system such as GPS can experience small variations with time owing to multipath changes in satellites orbital positions and other factors.

When the User Platform comprises a Handset the platform is not necessarily tied to the vehicle. Therefore session closure cannot be based exclusively on the mean position and its time rate of change as reported by the positioning subsystem in the Handset. However position related information and the above method can still be used if it is known a priori that the user is in the vehicle. In the present embodiment of the system this is established by conditioning the automatic session closure decision on the Handset receiving a short range beacon signal emitted by an identification device kept in on the vehicle.

In summary in the case when the User Platform is a Handset the session may be closed automatically provided the Handset is determined to be in the vehicle by virtue of receiving a beacon emitted by an identification device in on the vehicle AND either or both of the following conditions are met a the mean position reported by the Handset s positioning subsystem averaged over a predetermined time period exceeds a predetermined threshold value b the time rate of change of the above mean position exceeds a threshold value.

In the example of the Checker has decided on a particular area that he is going to survey for checking or targeted enforcement. In one embodiment the area may be selected unilaterally by the Checker depending on his work plan which may be influenced by considerations other than the highest density of vehicles with expired sessions subscribing to a particular Parking Service Provider. In this embodiment the Checking Terminal sends a message to the Parking Application Server using a cellular data link requesting information about the parked locations session status and attributes of subscribing vehicles in the specified targeted enforcement area. The request may also include the Checker s present location. The Checking Terminal allows the Checker to select a target area and to send a message with the information described above. Screen shows an example of a selected area on such a map. Selecting causes the request message to be sent to the Parking Application Server.

In an alternative embodiment the Checker may request an advisement about the area to survey. This approach may be preferable when most parked vehicles are subscribers to the subject parking payment system or it is advantageous to check such vehicles separately from other vehicles. In this case the Checker sends a message to the Parking Application Server using a cellular data link requesting advisement on a target area the request may include the Checker s present location. Responsive to the above request the Parking Application Server downloads to the Checking Terminal using a cellular data link a recommended target area and the parked locations session status and attributes of subscribing vehicle in the specified area. The area may include the Checker s present location.

Responsive to the receipt of the request message from the Checking Terminal following either of the above methods for selecting the target area the Parking Application Server downloads to the Checking Terminal the requested information using a cellular data link. The information may be displayed to the user as shown in Screen . The location of each vehicle subscribing to the subject parking payment service is shown as an icon such as a dot with a distinguishing feature such as color or shape to indicate its session status. In the example shown the green dots represent vehicles with unexpired sessions and the red dots represent vehicles with expired sessions as expected by the Parking Application Server . If information about session closure is less than absolutely certain then the status of the red dots would be better described as expected expired . This means that there would be a non zero probability that an indicated vehicle with expired session had left the spot it may not be found by the Checker at the time of checking. This shows the value of session closure in the checking process. Even with the use of automatic session closure as described in this system there is a non zero possibility that in some cases the session closure process may fail because the Handset was switched off or lost. Owing to such error conditions the certainty of finding a vehicle with an indicated expired session status may be less than 100 .

Detailed attributes of vehicles represented by each icon may be blown up and displayed by selecting an icon and requesting more information thereof. In the example of Screen such selecting may be performed by moving a cursor over the icon and selecting . Other means of item selection on a displayed screen well known in the prior art may also be used.

An example of the detailed attributes is shown in Screen . Examples of key information are the vehicle license plate number and session information such as status unexpired expired start time end time and overage relative to present time. This information may be supplemented by an image of the vehicle if available and the approximate street location.

The method system described above of identifying a target area for enforcement wirelessly downloading information about the identities and parking session status of vehicles parked in the target area and displaying the information on a Checking Terminal in a way so as to facilitate checking or enforcement may be applied to other wireless parking payment systems using other methods of identifying a vehicle s parked locations such as zone IDs. In such cases the indicated vehicle locations may be less precise than in the system described here such as covering an entire city block. Nevertheless the systems methods taught here could still benefit such systems and lead to a reduction of enforcement effort.

The responses from the tags contain the vehicle IDs. These responded IDs are compared by the software in the Checking Terminal for matches with the downloaded IDs of subscriber vehicles located at that targeted area. Not all expired vehicles may be physically present for the reasons described above. Therefore the vehicles physically present at the targeted location which may be ticketed may be a subset of vehicles with expired status according to the information downloaded to the Checker s Terminal from the Parking Application Server. Based on these matches between the RFID responses and downloaded information and assisted by the attributes of the vehicles such as license plate number and image displayed on the Checking Terminal the Checker identifies the physical vehicles for enforcement.

In the walk around validation method according to this embodiment the Checker or Enforcement Officer gets sufficiently close to vehicles and of the present system such that his handheld Checker s Terminal will be able to sense the beacon signals and that are autonomously and periodically transmitted by the tags and respectively. The beacon transmitters in the tags and carry identification information as application data which may be related to the respective vehicles and or to the identification devices or tags themselves. In the former case the vehicle identity may be read directly from the beacon signals. In the latter case a short information exchange with the identification device is required to determine the vehicles identities.

One embodiment of this method comprises a Bluetooth Low Energy LE device transmitting in the advertising mode of the Bluetooth LE protocol. According to this protocol once the receiver of the beacon signal that is the Checker s Terminal senses the presence of the beacon transmitters in tags and it holds a short data exchange transaction with the tag transmitters to gather information from the transmitters. In the present application this information would be the vehicle IDs.

The beacon transmitters would also serve the purpose of vehicle ID recognition by a Handset carried by the user as described above and in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 862 619. Advantages of this approach over the use of RFID are that a an additional RFID tag is not required to be placed in on the vehicle and b no RFID query module is required in the Checker s Terminal. As RFID query devices consume more power than a device using other short range technologies such as BLE it is desirable to avoid incorporating an RFID query device in a handheld terminal if possible. Moreover the main advantage of RFID checking is that it enables drive by validation. As walk around validation is likely to be required for many years to accommodate legacy parking payment systems the advantage of RFID validation over beacon based validation may remain unrealized for many years.

Information about the session status of parked vehicles in the targeted geographic area as well as vehicle attributes have already been downloaded to the Checker s Terminal from the Parking Application Server in the same way as described above for checking with RFID. Software in the Checker s Terminal checks the session status of vehicles whose beacon it can sense and provides an indication if a vehicle is deemed to have expired session status. In the example of the IDs of vehicles with readable beacons are displayed on the Checker s Terminal with red 4 or green 2 dot to indicate expired and unexpired status respectively.

The example described above and illustrated in is one of many possible embodiments of the basic method taught here which comprises checking the parking session status of a parked vehicle using a short range beacon and downloaded information from a server. This involves less effort than present methods which involve scanning license plates of all cars that appear to be parked illegally uploading the information to a server and obtaining a reading back from the server on whether a the vehicle belongs to a particular pay by cell service and b if so if its session has expired.

In the present system an identification device is kept in on the vehicle and may be used for several purposes including i identifying the vehicle to the Handset ii automatic session closure and iii vehicle identification by the Checker or EO for session status checking or enforcement. These applications may be served by a common short range beacon signal such as BLE as mentioned above. However other alternatives are possible for i . These include the use of optical scanning of a pattern or code printed on a physical tag in on the vehicle and near field communications NFC involving an NFC tag placed in on the vehicle.

Automatic sensing of the vehicle ID may also be performed by other sensor technologies such as near field communications NFC and Bluetooth .

NFC may be used by locating a passive NFC tag in the car and bringing a Handset supporting NFC within coverage range few centimeters of the tag. The sensing of the tag automatically starts an App which can be programmed to accept the responded vehicle ID and overwrite the previous one if one exists in the data memory accessed by the parking applications described here.

Bluetooth may be used by either using the Bluetooth function provided as a part of the vehicle s built in electronic system or a low power Bluetooth tag such as a BLE tag placed in the vehicle. Bluetooth paring of a vehicle s electronic system and a Handset are commonplace in modern vehicles. The vehicle s ID for parking applications may be linked to the Bluetooth ID used in such pairing. Low power Bluetooth BLE tags have been used to track personal items and pets. Such tags may also be used in lieu of the vehicle s native Bluetooth system. An advantage of using Bluetooth over other sensor methods is that the vehicle ID sensing is automatic when the user enters the vehicle i.e. transparent to the user requiring no action on his part. A further advantage of using BLE over the native built in Bluetooth system of a vehicle is that the time required for sensing a BLE signal and performing a short data exchange with it is shorter than the standard Bluetooth pairing protocol.

The Parking Application Server responds with the parking terms and conditions information which are displayed in Vehicle Display Screen . If the terms and conditions are acceptable the user selects if not he selects . Assuming that he selects the former the next screen Vehicle Display Screen requests the user to enter a committed parking session time assuming that a pre committed session is required by parking policy. The browser may skip this step based on the vehicle s location and stored knowledge of the policy of the local Parking Authority or the if user has selected the auto renewal option of the present system.

Following the entering of committed parking session time in Vehicle Display Screen the user selects . This sends a message to the Parking Application Server which causes a parking session to be started at the server and a confirmatory Active Session status screen is returned to the User Platform which is displayed as Vehicle Display Screen . This screen may be different if auto renewal is selected there may be no entry under Ending Time and the choice of auto renewal may be displayed. The user may exit the parking App and return to the root screen Screen by selecting on this screen.

If Screen were deleted as described above and no user correction of the indicated position were required which is likely when the User Platform is integrated into the vehicle the number of user steps required to complete the Start Parking process would be reduced to two comprising those in Screens and . If the rate restriction information were known through other means the number of screens requiring user input could be reduced to one Screen leading to one touch parking.

As described above the policy of some parking authorities regarding on street parking is that at the onset of the parking session the user must commit to a predetermined prepaid amount of session time. This policy may have been modeled on legacy coin based meter parking but it has negative consequences when extended to pay by cell parking payment. Negative consequences include i the introduction of an additional step in the user s interaction with the device Handset or built in car app which queries the user about the amount of prepaid time requiring the user to enter this value and ii if the prepaid time is not fully used this time is wasted as there is no precedence in present parking policies of allowing a refund for unused time. shows a Handset screen that supports querying the user about the amount of prepaid time and allowing them to enter a value with a smartphone. shows the car displays for the same purpose when the User Platform is built into a car s electronic system.

It has been described above that in an embodiment of the present method the parking session can be renewed automatically by the Parking Application Server without user action. This process is described below in more detail and illustrated with the flow diagram of . The user agrees in the subscription contract to an initial prepaid time of a small amount such as a period between 5 and 15 minutes. Thereafter the session time is automatically extended by the Parking Application Server in small quanta such as 5 minutes without additional user inputs. The automatic session time extension continues until one of the following limits is encountered a the user closes the session b a parking policy determined limit on the maximum session time such as 2 hours is reached or c a free parking period ensues such as after peak office periods in downtown areas.

In an aspect of this embodiment at a number of fixed periods e.g. 30 minutes and 10 minutes before the maximum session time limit is reached the user may be sent a warning that the session is about to reach a hard stop beyond which it cannot be auto renewed thereby allowing the user an opportunity to return to the vehicle if possible. is a flow diagram illustrating an embodiment of the above method. The method includes a first step of initiating the parking program with a first predetermined prepaid time duration. In the second step a session timer is started. The session timer is decremented in the third step . In a first decision step the parking program asks if the parking session has been closed by the user or autonomously. If the answer is yes the vehicle status is set to inactive in step . If the answer is no a second decision step inquires if a policy based maximum time limit has been reached. If the answer is yes the vehicle status is set to active expired in step . If the answer is no a third decision step inquires if a policy based free parking period has been reached. If the answer is yes the vehicle status is set to active unexpired in step . If the answer is no the session timer is queried in step to determine if the parking session has expired. If the answer is yes the parking session is increased by a second predetermined prepaid time duration in step and the session timer is reset in step . If the answer is no the session timer is decremented in step . The first through third decision steps and are shown in one particular order in . However these steps do not have to be performed in the illustrated order. That is steps and may be performed in any order. For example in alternative embodiments steps and may be performed before step and step may be performed before step .

In an aspect of the above embodiments the parking charges may be accumulated in the Parking Application Server until the session has been closed to avoid micro charges to credit cards which may result in a large relative overhead expense. The charges may be forwarded to the Payment Server subsequently. The elimination of the user step to enter a prepaid pre committed amount makes it possible to offer one touch parking payment in the case where the parking payment app is built into the car s electronic system. This is shown in . Although three screens are shown after opening the parking app only a single user input accepting the parking rate on Screen by selecting is required to start the parking session.

In the case of Handsets one touch parking payment is also possible if the application is restricted to areas with a strong GPS signal and auto renewal is used. This is shown in . The user correction screen of can be eliminated if the GPS signal is strong and the position report stable. If auto renewal is selected then no user input of a pre committed session time is necessary and the screen of suffices. Thus after opening the Street Parking app the user only needs to select on the screen of to start the session.

The above described method of automatic session extension also provides the user a strong motivation to close an open session by engaging in an End Parking transaction before leaving the parked spot. Otherwise the virtual session meter in the Parking Application Server will keep running until the maximum session time limit is reached.

In an embodiment the distribution of parked cars as known by the Parking Application Server may be shared with end users as an indication of parking spot availability. The implication is that unoccupied spots are potentially free it is accepted that this indication will be wrong if the spot is occupied by a car using legacy parking payment means . This method of monitoring and reporting parking spot availability will become more accurate as pay by cell means of parking payment become more prevalent.

Another embodiment is based on the recent trend for car manufacturers to support an open application programming interface API to allow access to various sensors in the car including position reports from the car s built in positioning subsystem. This API is designed to be compatible with major smartphone operating systems such as iOS and Android . The objective is to promote third party involvement in the development of Apps for non safety functions of the car. Not all car manufacturers may build cellular data modems referred to in this application as User Platforms into the cars. However in this case the API supports external data transfer to and from the car s electronic system via the user s smartphone. Thereby information from the vehicle s built in electronic subsystems such as the positioning subsystem may be used by an App on the smartphone or Handset for parking payment and other applications.

