---

title: Microvascular stamp for patterning of functional neovessels
abstract: The invention provides compositions and methods for making and using microvascular stamps for stimulation and spatial organization of neovessels in tissue.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09533073&OS=09533073&RS=09533073
owner: The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
number: 09533073
owner_city: Urbana
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150512
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. Ser. No. 13 788 023 filed on Mar. 7 2013 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional application 61 650 073 filed May 22 2012. These applications are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

This work was supported by US Army Telemedicine Advanced Technology Research Center TATRC W81XWH 08 1 0701 and National Science Foundation CAREER DMR 0847253 STC EBICS Grant CBET 0939511 IGERT DGE 0965918 . The United States government has certain rights in this invention.

Neovessels play a critical role in homeostasis regeneration and pathogenesis of tissues and organs and their spatial organization is a major factor to influence the vascular function. It has been proposed that an ability to control growth direction and spacing of neovessels over physiologically relevant lengths ranging from about 100 m to about 500 m can provide a better understanding and controllability of neovessel formation. However a technology to accomplish this challenging goal is still lacking.

Prior studies have demonstrated that spatiotemporal distribution of multiple proangiogenic growth factors in a 3D tissue can control growth direction of neovessels and also their macroscale spacing. In these studies various polymeric scaffolds were assembled by welding a growth factor releasing layer with a growth factor free layer while varying layer thickness at the millimeter scale. To further control spatial organization of the neovessels at a length scale required to uniformly perfuse 3D tissue various micropatterning ink jet printing and microfluidic techniques were used to control spatiotemporal distribution of proangiogenic factors or direct the adhesion pattern of endothelial cells at micrometer scales. However there have been no reports of regulating the microscale spacing between functional neovessels through which blood flows in vivo using microfabrication techniques. Spacing of neovessels is important for proper vascularization of tissue.

One embodiment of the invention provides microvascular stamp comprising one or more types of cells encapsulated in a poly ethylene glycol PEGDA and methacrylic polymer cross linked hydrogel wherein the cross linked hydrogel comprises microchannels. The one or more types of cells can secrete one or more proangiogenic factors growth factors or antiangiogenic factors or combinations thereof. The microchannels can be about 100 m to about 2.5 mm in diameter and the on center spacing between the microchannels can be about 100 m to about 2.5 mm. The ratio between the flux of growth factors through the microchannel wall of the stamp J can be larger than the flux through the bottom of the stamp with the same cross sectional area as the microchannel J . The stamp can be about 100 m to about 5 mm thick. The stamp can have an elastic modulus of about 10 kPa to about 140 kPa. The stamp can be populated with neovessels. The one or more types of cells express one or more fusion proteins comprising a growth factor proangiogenic factor or antiangiogenic factor fused to a protein light switch.

Another embodiment of the invention provides a method of making a microvascular stamp. The method comprises encapsulating cells in a poly ethylene glycol PEGDA and methacrylic polymer hydrogel crosslinking the hydrogel with a stereolithographic apparatus to form a cross linked hydrogel and incorporating microchannels into the cross linked hydrogel with a stereolithographic apparatus. The microvascular stamp can be contacted with a tissue in vivo or in vitro.

Still another embodiment of the invention is a method of inducing growth of new blood vessels in a tissue. The method comprises contacting one or more of the microvascular stamps with the tissue wherein the microvascular stamp induces the growth of new blood vessels in the tissue. The one or more types of cells can express one or more fusion proteins comprising a growth factor proangiogenic factor or antiangiogenic factor fused to a protein light switch. The one or more microvascular stamps can be illuminated with light at a wavelength of about 450 nm to about 500 nm. The microscale spacing between functional new blood vessels can be regulated by the microchannel diameter and spacing. The microscale spacing between the new blood vessels can be about 100 m to about 2.5 mm on center.

Yet another embodiment of the invention provides a method of treating a tissue defect in a subject in need thereof. The method comprises administering one or more microvascular stamps to the subject thereby treating the tissue defect. The one or more types of cells can express one or more fusion proteins comprising a growth factor proangiogenic factor or antiangiogenic factor fused to a protein light switch. The one or more microvascular stamps can be illuminated with light at a wavelength of about 450 nm to about 500 nm. The microvascular stamp can be administered to the subject by injection implantation endoscopic delivery or by catheter.

Another embodiment of the invention provides a kit comprising a microvascular stamp wherein the stamp is immersed in a medium that retains viability of the cells.

Therefore the invention provides microvascular stamps that remain stable at the implant or graft site and that support expression of proangiogenic factors such that controlled microspacing of functional neovessels is directed. The live cells of the microvascular stamp provide an unexpected advancement in patterning neovessels for proper vascularization because of their intrinsic properties of synthesizing and secreting multiple angiogenic factors in a sustained manner.

As used herein the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.

The invention provides living microvascular stamps that release multiple proangiogenic factors along their predefined micro sized pattern to engineer the stimulation and spatial organization of neovessels. The stamps comprise live cells that secrete certain factors e.g. proangiogenic factors engineered hydrogel matrices that promote cellular expression of the factors and geometry that controls the flux and flow direction of these growth factors. When implanted the stamps create a desired pattern of neovessels where the pattern was engraved into the microvascular stamp. The microvascular stamps are very powerful tools for studying and directing emergent cellular behavior of the vasculature and further repairing or regenerating neovessels to treat wounds traumas tissue defects and various diseases.

Microvascular stamps are capable of releasing multiple proangiogenic growth factors along a pattern engraved into the stamps while maintaining structural integrity at the implant site such that a desired vascular pattern is generated. Cells that endogenously express multiple proangiogenic growth factors are encapsulated into a rigid but permeable hydrogel of poly ethylene glycol PEGDA and methacrylic polymer such as methacrylic alginate MA . In this manner cells are stimulated to release the soluble factors in a sustained and responsive manner. Furthermore using a stereolithography fabrication unit microchannels of appropriate diameter and spacing guided by Fick s law of diffusion can be incorporated into the cell encapsulating hydrogel so the flux of growth factors through the walls of the microchannels are much larger than that through other parts of the hydrogel . The hydrogel permeability can be evaluated by monitoring water diffusion into the hydrogel with magnetic resonance imaging MRI see Example 1 and the function of the microvascular stamp to control neovessel formation can be examined by implanting it onto for example a chick embryo membrane CAM see Example 4 .

Hydrogel compositions of the invention comprise poly ethylene glycol diacrylate PEGDA and methacrylic polymer a polymer whose monomer is a methacrylic ester with the general formula HC C CH COOR such as methacrylic alginate MA hyaluronic acid methacrylate chitosan methacrylate polyaspartamide methacrylate hyperbranched polyglycerol methacrylate glycosaminoglycan methacrylate Pluronic methacrylate heparin methacrylates dextran methacrylates and combinations thereof. The elastic modulus and swelling ratio of the PEGDA methacrylic polymer hydrogel are tuned to prepare a rigid and permeable hydrogel so that the cell encapsulated hydrogel not only remains stable at the implanted site but also supports cellular expression of factors such as proangiogenic factors.

The elastic modulus of a stamp with or without cells can be from about 10 kPa to about 140 kPa or any range or value between about 10 kPa to about 140 kPa for example from about 20 kPa to about 120 kPa. The swelling ratio of a hydrogel with or without cells can be from about 25 to about 10 or any range or value between about 25 and 10 for example from about 20 to about 12.

The amount of methacrylic polymer in a hydrogel composition of the invention can be about 2.5 w w to about 10.0 w w or any range or value from about 2.5 to about 10.0 . The amount of PEGDA in a hydrogel composition of the invention can be about 12.5 w w to about 17.5 w w or any range from about 12.5 to about 17.5 . The molecular weight of the PEGDA can be about 700 g mol to about 10 000 g mol or any range or value between about 700 g mol and about 10 000 g mol . The ratio of PEGDA to methacrylic polymer can be about 1 10 2 10 3 10 4 10 5 10 w w or any range or value between about 1 10 and about 5 10 w w e.g. about 2.5 10 w w .

The diffusity of a stamp with no microchannels can be from about 1.0 10cm s to about 3.0 10cm s or any range or value between about 1.0 10cm s to about 3.0 10cm s for example from about 1.2 10cm s to about 2.6 10cm s.

The diffusity of a stamp with microchannels can be from about 1.0 10cm s to about 3.5 10cm s or any range or value between about 1.0 10cm s to about 3.5 10cm s for example from about 1.5 10cm s to about 3.14 10cm s.

The thickness of a stamp can be from about 100 m to about 5 mm or any range or value between about 100 m to about 5 mm for example from about 100 m to about 500 m.

In relation to the stamp parameters discussed above the diameter and spacing of microchannels and neovessel spacing and length the term about means that the stated parameter value can vary by 5 or less.

In contrast to conventional two dimensional cell culture systems flat 2D surfaces such as membranes culture dishes or multi well tissue culture plates where cells grow in monolayers the microvascular stamps mimic the complex three dimensional cellular structure of living tissues by providing an adhesive substrate for cells and by acting as a three dimensional physical porous support for cells in culture and in vivo.

A stamp can be in a variety of shapes including sheets slabs cylinders tubes spheres or beads. A stamp can also be provided in a shape that provides natural contours of a body part e.g. a nose or nose part an ear or ear part a meniscus etc.

Cells that are known to endogenously express growth factors antiangiogenic proangiogenic factors or other factors of interest are encapsulated into the PEGDA and PEGDA methacrylic polymer hydrogels. The mixture of cells and pre gelled methacrylic polymer PEGDA and a photoinitiator e.g. Iragacure 2959 solution can be exposed to UV light or a laser e.g. a laser of a stereolithography fabrication apparatus to activate in situ photo cross linking reaction to form a hydrogel see Example 1 . Cells encapsulated into a PEGDA methacrylic polymer hydrogel remain more viable than those encapsulated into a PEGDA hydrogel regardless of the gel stiffness and see Example 2 . The beneficial role of PEGDA methacrylic polymer hydrogel in enhancing cell viability may be attributed to its increased permeability and subsequently higher water diffusivity see Example 1 .

Cell density in a hydrogel can be from about 1 10to about 1 10cells ml or any range or value between about 1 10to about 1 10cells ml for example about 2 10cells ml. In one embodiment of the invention the cells are uniformly distributed throughout the hydrogel. In other embodiments the cells can be distributed in a gradient. That is one or more portions of the hydrogel can have a greater cell density than one or more other portions of the hydrogel. The different densities can be achieved using a bottoms up approach of SLA wherein different densities of cells are present in each layer see Example 2 .

Cells encapsulated within the PEGDA methacrylic polymer hydrogel can express larger amounts of multiple proangiogenic or growth factors than those encapsulated in a PEGDA hydrogel. Proangiogenic factors and growth factors include e.g. vascular endothelial growth factor VEGF A F proliferin serpin E1 endothelin 1 fibroblast growth factors acidic and basic FGF 1 10 granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor GM CSF insulin insulin growth factor or insulin like growth factor IGF insulin growth factor binding protein IGFBP placenta growth factor PIGF angiopoietin Angl and Ang2 platelet derived growth factor PDGF hepatocyte growth factor HGF transforming growth factor TGF TGF isoforms 1 3 platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule 1 PECAM 1 vascular endothelial cadherin VE cadherin nitric oxide NO chemokine C X C motif ligand 10 CXCL10 or IP 10 interleukin 8 IL 8 hypoxia inducible factor HIF monocyte chemotactic protein MCP such as MCP 1 vascular cell adhesion molecule VCAM ephrin ligands including Ephrin B2 and B4 transcription factors including HIF 1 HIF 1 and HIF 2 Ets 1 Hex Vezf1 Hox GATA LKLF COUP TFII Hox MEF2 Braf Prx 1 Prx 2 CRP2 SmLIM and GATA family members basic helix loop helix factors and their inhibitors of differentiation and regulatory molecules including enzymes matrix metalloproteinase MMP such as MMP 9 tissue plasminogen activator PLAT or tPA and cyclooxygenase COX or angiogenin.

For example the amount of cell secreted VEGF was much larger for cells encapsulated within a PEGDA methacrylic polymer hydrogel as compared with those encapsulated within a PEGDA hydrogel. See Example 2.

In certain embodiments cells can express one or more antiangiogenic factors such as endoglin fms like tyrosine kinase 1 sFlt1 NRP 1 IFN IFN IFN CXCC10 IL 4 IL 12 IL 18 prothrombin maspin angiostatin endostatin TSP 1 TSP 2 vasostatin platelet factor 4 or prolactin.

Cells encapsulated into a hydrogel can be any type of cells such as a stem cell a human embryonic stem cell a mesenchymal stem cell a bone marrow derived mesenchymal stem cell a human bone marrow derived mesenchymal stem cells a hematopoetic stem cell a blood stem cell an adult stem cell an embryonic stem cell a post natal stem cell a fetal cardiomyocyte an endothelial progenitor cell circulating angiogenic cells circulating endothelial precursors endothelial colony forming cells early outgrowth endothelial progenitor cells late outgrowth endothelial progenitor cells a cord blood stem cell an autotransplanted expanded cardiomyocyte a cardiomyocyte a cardiac myoblast a myofibroblast a fibroblast an adipocyte a totipotent cell a pluripotent cell a multipotent mesenchymal stem cell a synovial cell a spinal disc cell a tenocyte a myoblast a bone marrow cell a mesenchymal cell a parenchymal cell an epithelial cell an endothelial cell a mesothelial cell a fibroblast a myofibroblast an osteoblast a chondrocyte an exogenous cell an endogenous cell a pluripotent stem cell a bone marrow derived progenitor cell a progenitor cell a myocardial cell a skeletal cell a fetal cell an embryonic cell an undifferentiated cell a multi potent progenitor cell a unipotent progenitor cell a monocyte a skeletal myoblast a macrophage a capillary endothelial cell a xenogenic cell and an allogenic cell. One type of cell or a combination of two or more types of cells can be encapsulated in a hydrogel of the invention.

The cells can be human adult human infant human fetal human juvenile human mammalian equine bovine murine feline canine porcine or any other type of cells.

After encapsulation the cells can be stimulated to secrete growth factors or other proangiogenic factors with for example stimulation factors such as protein kinase C activators e.g. TPA oxygen concentration external mechanical forces light or heat. The stimulation factors can be added prior to formation of the hydrogel after formation of the hydrogel prior to implantation or grafting of the stamp during implantation or grafting of the stamp after implantation or grafting of the stamp or a combination thereof.

In one embodiment of the invention cells release growth factors proangiogenic factors or antiangiogenic factors upon specific environmental stimulation such as exposure to a certain wavelength of light change in temperature change in oxygen concentration or change in pressure. In one embodiment of the invention a protein of interest e.g. one or more growth factors proangiogenic factors or antiangiogenic factors or precursors of these factors is fused to a protein light switch such that illumination of the fusion protein activates or inactivates the protein of interest. The activation or inactivation can be reversible that is the activation or inactivation is not permanent. The activation can be dose dependent that is increased illumination increases the level of activation or inactivation of the protein of interest. The illumination can comprise any wavelength that modulates a protein light switch for example light in the range of about 450 to about 500 nm More than one wavelength of light can be used for illumination.

A protein light switch can be any protein or peptide that is responsive to illumination such that it that changes structure in response to illumination. A protein light switch can be a LOV light oxygen or voltage domain such as a LOV2 domain or a portion thereof that retains substantially all of the responsiveness to illumination See Toettcher et al. Nature Methods 8 35 2011 Strickland et al. Nature Methods 7 623 2010 . Examples of LOV domains are taught in e.g. Pathak et al. Photochem. Photobiol. 88 107 2012 Herrou Crosson Nat. Rev. Microbiol. 9 713 2011 . A protein light switch can further comprise a J domain and or one or more fragments from a phototropin e.g. phototropin I. See WO2011 002977.

Cells of the invention can be engineered to express one or more the fusion proteins comprising one or more of the proteins of interest and a protein light switch using methods know to one of skill in the art. See WO2011 002977. In the absence of certain light wavelengths a LOV domain will sterically block or perturb the protein function in cells. However upon exposure to certain light wavelengths the block on protein function is released. In this manner cells within the microvascular stamp can be controlled via light to express and release growth factors proangiogenic factors or antiangiogenic factors at specific times. Removal of the light again blocks the protein function such that the proteins are not expressed and released.

Therefore a microvascular stamp can be illuminated with light while the stamp is in vitro for e.g. experimental purposes prior to implantation into a subject during implantation into a subject and or while the stamp is implanted in a subject. A stamp can be illuminated constantly at one time point or at several time points. Illumination can last for about 0.5 1 5 10 30 minutes or more at each time point.

Microchannels can be incorporated into a microvascular stamp through e.g. in situ cross linking reactions activated by a sterolithographic assembly SLA unit. See e.g. Example 1. Microchannels with controlled spacing can be introduced into the PEGDA methacrylic polymer hydrogels with the goal of driving neovessel growth along the microchannel pattern. Neovessel growth direction can be controlled by increasing the flux of the cell secreted proangiogenic factors through the microchannel wall so that the neovessels localize within the microchannel lumen. The ratio between the flux of growth factors through the microchannel wall of the stamp J should be larger than the flux through the bottom of the stamp with the same cross sectional area as the microchannel J see Example 3 .

The microchannels can be about 100 m to about 2.5 mm in diameter or any range or value from about 100 m to about 2.5 mm in diameter for example about 200 m to about 2.0 mm in diameter. The on center spacing between the microchannels can be about 100 m to about 2.5 mm or any range or value from about 100 m to about 2.5 mm for example from about 200 m to about 2.0 mm. On center spacing is the center to center measurement from one microchannel to the next.

In one embodiment of the invention all microchannels in the stamp have the same on center spacing. In another embodiment of the invention the on center spacing can be different between two or more of the microchannels. The microchannels can be any shape for example the shape can be circles squares triangles random shapes or a mixture of shapes see e.g. . The microchannels can be arranged randomly or can be in a pattern e.g. a set of repeating microchannels at predetermined positions . A microchannel pattern can regulate the local distribution of proangiogenic factors on an implantation or graft site.

Microchannels can be fabricated in the hydrogels using a stereolithographic apparatus SLA . Incorporation of the microchannels into the hydrogel make minimal difference in the elastic modulus and swelling ratio as compared to the microchannel free hydrogel. The diffusivity D of water into the PEGDA methacrylic polymer hydrogel is significantly increased due to the presence of microchannels. Water diffuses into a hydrogel more exclusively through microchannel walls and ultimately leads to a faster increase in the amount of water bound to the gel matrix than the microchannel free hydrogels. Incorporation of the microchannels into the hydrogel also increases the fraction of viable cells due to increased chances of nutrient and waste exchange over time. In addition incorporation of the microchannels into PEGDA methacrylic polymer hydrogels improves sustainability of secreting proangiogenic factors during cell culture.

Therefore a microvascular stamp can be made by a method comprising encapsulating cells in a PEGDA and methacrylic polymer hydrogel crosslinking the hydrogel with a stereolithographic apparatus or other suitable composition or method to form a cross linked hydrogel and incorporating microchannels into the cross linked hydrogel with a stereolithographic apparatus or other suitable composition or method such that a microvascular stamp is made. The microvascular stamp can then be contacted with a tissue in vivo or in vitro.

Compositions of the invention include a microvascular stamp comprising one or more types of cells encapsulated in a poly ethylene glycol PEGDA and methacrylic polymer cross linked hydrogel wherein the cross linked hydrogel comprises microchannels. A stamp can be populated with neovessels. That is one or more neovessels are present within the stamp. The one or more types of cells express one or more fusion proteins comprising a growth factor proangiogenic factor or antiangiogenic factor fused to a protein light switch.

Microvascular stamps of the invention can be used for tissue regeneration. Alternatively microvascular stamps of the invention can be used for in vitro studies e.g. to study neovessels to study cell attachment gene expression cell contraction cell motility etc.

Optionally a microvascular stamp of the invention can be used without encapsulated cells. In this case one or more proangiogenic factors or growth factors e.g. VEGF FGF endothelin proliferlin would be added to the microvascular stamp during the pre gel phase or after formation of the hydrogel is completed .

Kits of the invention can include a microvascular stamp in medium suitable for retaining viability of the encapsulated cells. Optionally a delivery device such as a syringe catheter or forceps can be included in the kit. Other kits of the invention can comprise one or more of a pre gel solution of methacrylic polymer and PEGDA cells cell stimulator a photoinitiator or combinations thereof.

One embodiment of the invention provides a method for stimulating neovessels and controlling spatial organization of neovessels in vitro or in a subject having a disorder characterized by tissue damage or loss comprising implanting or grafting a stamp of the invention in or on the subject. The neovessels are functional that is blood flows in the neovessels.

For example a microvascular stamp of the invention which has one or more cell types encapsulated within it can be implanted into or grafted onto a subject or tissue culture such that formation of neovessels is induced. The neovessels can be about 100 m to about 2.5 mm apart from one another and about 10 to about 1 000 m long or any range or value between about 10 to about 1 000 m long such as about 100 to about 500 m long .

In one embodiment of the invention a method of inducing growth of new blood vessels in a tissue in vitro or in vivo is provided. The method comprises contacting one or more microvascular stamps of the invention with the tissue wherein the microvascular stamp induces the growth of new blood vessels. The microscale spacing between functional new blood vessels can be controlled by controlling the size or diameter shape and spacing of the microchannels in the microvascular stamp. The microscale spacing between the new blood vessels can be about 100 m to about 2.5 mm on center.

In another embodiment of the invention a method of treating a tissue defect in a subject in need thereof is provided. The method comprises administering one or more of the microvascular stamps of the invention to the subject thereby treating the tissue defect. A microvascular stamp of the invention can be administered to a subject by any suitable method including for example injection implantation endoscopic delivery or by catheter.

Microvascular stamps of the invention can be used as e.g. grafts for dermal wounds pressure sores venous stasis wounds diabetic ulcers and or reconstructive applications. Microvascular stamps of the invention can also be used to treat a disorder characterized by tissue damage or loss or in need of neovascularization. A disorder characterized by tissue damage or loss includes any disorder disease or condition comprising tissue damage or trauma e.g. non functional tissue cancerous or pre cancerous tissue broken tissue fractured tissue fibrotic tissue or ischemic tissue or a tissue loss e.g. due to trauma infectious disease genetic disease or other disease that would benefit from neovessel stimulation and generation. Examples of disorders or conditions requiring neovascularization include liver cirrhosis ischemia diabetes cystic fibrosis bone cancer bone damage burns and wounds age related macular degeneration myocardial infarction myocardial damage heart valve damage CNS lesions nerve damage peripheral nerve damage spinal cord defects articular cartilage defects urological organ damage or degeneration intestinal damage or degeneration conjunctiva damage bone and tendon interface damage or degeneration cartilage damage pancreatic tissue damage liver tissue damage and osteochondral defects.

Where cells are encapsulated into the stamp including for example for ex vivo formation of a tissue the cells can be derived from the treated subject autologous source from allogeneic sources such as embryonic stem cells that are not expected to induce an immunogenic reaction from xenogeneic sources or combinations thereof.

In any of these methods the one or more types of cells in the stamp can express one or more fusion proteins comprising a growth factor proangiogenic factor or antiangiogenic factor fused to a protein light switch. The one or more microvascular stamps can then be illuminated with light at a wavelength of about 450 nm to about 500 nm to cause the expression of the growth factor proangiogenic factor or antiangiogenic factor in the fusion protein.

A therapeutically effective amount of a stamp of the invention is an amount of a microvascular stamp composition in sufficient strength such that the composition has a positive effect on the neovascularization of tissue that is being treated in the subject. The amount is therapeutically effective where the composition has an effect on the regenerative or wound healing activity at the site where the composition contacts tissue. A therapeutically effective amount can be determined by routine testing in patients with wounds or tissue defects.

A microvascular stamp can remain at the treatment site until the desired result is achieved e.g. wound healing . After the desired result is achieved the stamp can be removed. The duration of a microvascular stamp of the invention is the length of time required for the stamp to for example give the cells or tissues within the stamp time to function to for example regenerate skin at a wound site. The duration of a stamp can be about 1 day 2 days 3 days 4 days 5 days 6 days 7 days 10 days 2 weeks 3 weeks 4 weeks 5 weeks 6 weeks 7 weeks 8 weeks 3 months 4 months or more.

Optionally a microvascular stamp can be populated or partially populated with neovessels in vitro and then the stamp can be implanted or grafted into a subject as described above.

All patents patent applications and other scientific or technical writings referred to anywhere herein are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety. The invention illustratively described herein suitably can be practiced in the absence of any element or elements limitation or limitations that are not specifically disclosed herein. Thus for example in each instance herein any of the terms comprising consisting essentially of and consisting of may be replaced with either of the other two terms while retaining their ordinary meanings. The terms and expressions which have been employed are used as terms of description and not of limitation and there is no intention that in the use of such terms and expressions of excluding any equivalents of the features shown and described or portions thereof but it is recognized that various modifications are possible within the scope of the invention claimed. Thus it should be understood that although the present invention has been specifically disclosed by embodiments optional features modification and variation of the concepts herein disclosed may be resorted to by those skilled in the art and that such modifications and variations are considered to be within the scope of this invention as defined by the description and the appended claims.

In addition where features or aspects of the invention are described in terms of Markush groups or other grouping of alternatives those skilled in the art will recognize that the invention is also thereby described in terms of any individual member or subgroup of members of the Markush group or other group.

The following are provided for exemplification purposes only and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention described in broad terms above.

Gel forming polymers poly ethylene glycol diacrylate PEGDA and methacrylic alginate MA were synthesized as described in and our previous works. Briefly for the synthesis of MA 2 Aminoethylmethacrylate was conjugated to the carboxylate group of alginate via EDC chemistry. See . The alginate used in this experiment molecular weight M 50 000 g mol was obtained by irradiating alginate rich in gluronic acid residues LF20 40 FMC Technologies M 250 000 g mol with a dose of 2 Mrad for 4 hours from a Co source. The irradiated alginate was dissolved in the 0.1M MES 2 N morpholino ethanesulfonic acid buffer pH 6.4 Sigma Aldrich at the concentration of 1.0 w v . Then 1 hydroxybenzotriazole HOBt Fluka 1 ethyl 3 3 dimethylaminopropyl carbodiimide EDC Thermo Scientific and 2 aminoethyl methacrylate AEMA Sigma Aldrich were dissolved in the alginate solution and stirred for 18 hours. Both the molar ratio of HOBt to AEMA and the molar ratio of EDC to AEMA were kept constant at 2 1. The mixture was dialyzed extensively against deionized DI water for three days while exchanging the DI water every 12 hours. The dialyzed alginate solution was lyophilized and reconstituted to a 3 wt stock solution. The conjugation of methacrylate groups onto the alginate was confirmed by H NMR 300 MHz QE300 General Electric as previously reported.

In parallel PEGDA was synthesized via chemical reaction between poly ethylene glycol PEG Sigma Aldrich and acryloyl chloride Sigma Aldrich . See . First PEG was dissolved in dichloromethane at the concentration of 10 wt . Next acryloryl chloride and triethylamine Fisher Chemical were dissolved in the PEG solution and stirred overnight under dry Ngas. The molar ratio of PEG acryloyl chloride and triethylamine was 1 4 4. Finally the insoluble salt triethylamine HCl was filtered and the product was precipitated by adding ice cold ether. The crude product was dissolved into DI water and dialyzed for one day to remove unreacted starting materials and the salt a byproduct. Then the product was frozen at 20 C. and lyophilized. The conjugation of acrylate groups onto PEG was confirmed by H NMR 300 MHz QE300 General Electric . In this study the number of methacrylates linked to a single alginate with molecular weight M of 50 000 g mol was kept constant at 60. The PEGDA with Mof 1 000 g mol and MA were dissolved in Dulbecco s modified Eagle s medium DMEM Sigma Aldrich without phenol red as stock solutions. The concentration of PEGDA in the stock solution and that of MA were kept constant at 40 A w v and 3.0 w v respectively.

The pre gelled solution was made by mixing 2.0 mL of the PEGDA solution with varied amounts of MA while keeping the total gel forming polymer concentrations constant . The mixture of pre gelled solution was further mixed with 0.2 wt of the photoinitiator Irgacure 2959 Ciba . The pre gelled solution was subsequently exposed to UV light or laser of stereolithographic apparatus SLA to activate photo cross linking reaction to form the hydrogel. See .

Where SLA was used the pre gelled solution was placed into the dish at the center of the platform in SLA. A commercially available SLA was modified to accommodate for the bottoms up approach developed in our previous work . Briefly the hydrogel with microchannels was fabricated by photo crosslinking the mixture of cell and pre gelled solution in a layer by layer fashion using a stereolithography apparatus SLA Model 250 50 3D Systems . A commercially available SLA was modified to accommodate for the bottoms up approach as describe in our previous work. In the bottoms up approach the pre gelled solution is pipetted into the container one layer at a time from the bottom to the top. Each layer is about 100 to about 200 m. This setup was designed to reduce total volume of photopolymer in use and also remove photopolymers used from static conditions.

3D computer aided design CAD models were generated using AutoCAD 2009 Autodesk and exported to stereolithography SLA format for creating hydrogels containing microchannels . The microchannels with varied diameters were introduced into hydrogels guided by the following Fick s diffusion equation. Eq. 1 where Jis the diffusive flux of a molecule P is the hydrogel permeability coefficient Cand Care the molecule concentrations in and out of a hydrogel and S is the surface area of a hydrogel.

The SLA software 3D Lightyear v1.4 3D system was used to slice the 3D models into a series of 2D layers from a user specified thickness. The laser was used to selectively crosslink the pre gelled solution at a precisely calculated energy dose . The elevator controlled by the SLA was lowered by a specified distance and the part was recoated. The process was repeated until completion of the 3D assembly of the hydrogel. The hydrogel was rinsed several times in the phosphate buffered saline PBS pH 7.4 to remove uncross linked polymer and the gel was further incubated in the medium for 24 hours at 37 C.

The hydrogel stiffness was evaluated with measurement of the elastic modulus of a hydrogel. Following the incubation in the medium for 24 hours the gel structure was compressed at a rate of 1.0 mm min using a mechanical testing system MTS Insight . The elastic modulus was calculated from the slope of a stress a vs. strain A curve at the first 10 strain. The hydrogel swelling ratio at equilibrium was determined by measuring the weight of the hydrated gel after 24 hours in neutral buffered solution at 37 C. and that of the dried gel. The degree of swelling Q defined as the reciprocal of the volume fraction of a polymer in a hydrogel v was calculated from the following equation 

Water diffusion into a hydrogel was examined by measuring the local amount of water proton in the hydrogel with the magnetic resonance imaging MRI . MRI was carried out using 600 MHz Varian Unity Inova nuclear magnetic resonance NMR spectrometer 14.1 T Magnet at room temperature. Each gel disk 5 mm in diameter 1 mm in thickness was incubated in PBS at room temperature during certain time periods. Then the gel was moved into a glass bottle 20 mm in diameter 40 mm in height then inserted into a RF Radio Frequency coil. Spin echo multi slice SEMS pulse sequence was used to acquire resonance data which were then converted into water density map using VNMR 6.1C software. For SEMS pulse sequence the repetition time T of 2.5 s and the echo time T of 5 ms were used. The field of view FOV was 1.6 1.6 cm and the image matrix was 128 64 pixels. The resulting water density images were processed to present the density spectrum for comparison using MATLAB The Mathworks . For visualization pseudo color was added to the images using the ImageJ software free image analysis software from National Institutes of Health . For counting water intensity peaks the rectangular gel picture from the image was selected and the histogram of the image count vs. color intensity was taken using the ImageJ software. The amount of water in a hydrogel was calculated by integrating the histogram for the color intensity higher than 150. The following equation was used to calculate the diffusivity D for W W

Firstly the elastic modulus and swelling ratio of the poly ethylene glycol diacrylate PEGDA hydrogel were tuned to prepare a rigid and permeable hydrogel so that the cell encapsulated hydrogel would not only remain stable at the implanted site but also support cellular expression of proangiogenic factors. Increasing the total polymer concentration of the PEGDA hydrogel showed an increase in elastic modulus and a decrease in swelling ratio which is the typical inverse relationship between stiffness and bulk permeability of conventional hydrogel systems . In contrast the hydrogel comprising PEGDA and synthetic methacrylic alginate MA which presents multivalent methacrylic groups and hydrophilic hydroxyl groupsshowed an increase in both elastic modulus and swelling ratio with the mass fraction of MA . The role of MA in increasing the swelling ratio of the hydrogel was further examined by monitoring the diffusion of water protons into the hydrogel using magnetic resonance imaging MRI . Despite the higher stiffness of the PEGDA MA hydrogel compared to the PEGDA hydrogel water diffused into the PEGDA MA hydrogel more rapidly .

This was also confirmed by calculating the diffusivity using Eq. 3 which was found to be 2.6 10cm s for PEGDA MA and 1.2 10cm s for PEGDA hydrogel.

NIH 3T3 cells ATCC were expanded and passaged at 37 C. with 5 COin Dulbecco s modified Eagle s medium DMEM ATCC supplemented by 10 fetal bovine serum FBS ATCC and 1 penicillin streptomycin ATCC . All the cells before the passage number of 10 were used in this study. Prior to encapsulation in hydrogels cells were mixed with the pre gelled polymer solution. The cell density was kept constant at 2.0 10cells ml. The mixture of cell and pre gelled solution was exposed to the laser of SLA to activate hydrogel formation. . NIH 3T3 cells cultured for seven days while being encapsulated within hydrogels. A uniform distribution of cells was achieved throughout the hydrogel by the bottoms up approach of SLA. . The viability of encapsulated cell was evaluated by adding 0.1 mL of a growth medium and 0.01 mL of MTT 3 4 5 dimethylthiazol 2 yl 2 5 diphenyltetrazolium bromide reagent ATCC into a well of a 96 well plate which contained each gel structure. Following the addition of MTT reagent the medium was incubated for four hours at 37 C. with 5 COwhile being gently shaken. Live cells stained as dark purple in the hydrogels were imaged using a CCD camera Leica D LUX 3 mounted on an inverted microscope Leica DMIL . . The live cell fraction was further quantified by adding 0.1 mL of a MTT detergent solution ATCC to each well and further incubating at 37 C. overnight to dissolve the dark purple product. The gel structure was removed from each well and the absorbance of the surrounding medium at 570 nm was measured using a microplate absorbance reader Synergy HT Biotek . Image 1 dark purple in live cells represents cells encapsulated in the PEGDA1000 MA hydrogel containing microchannels with diameter of 500 m image 2 for PEGDA1000 MA hydrogel without microchannels and image 3 for pure PEGDA1000 hydrogel. Arrow in the image 1 indicates the microchannels. .

The cell hydrogels were incubated in DMEM supplemented by 10 fetal bovine serum FBS while changing the media every two days. On Days 0 1 3 5 and 7 viability of cells encapsulated into the hydrogel was quantitatively evaluated using a MTT 3 4 5 dimethylthiazol 2 yl 2 5 diphenyltetrazolium bromide reagent ATCC assay kit. The cell hydrogel construct was incubated in the media containing MTT reagent for 4 hours and the absorbance of the sample altered with the positive staining of viable cells was subsequently measured at 570 nm using a microplate absorbance reader Synergy HT Biotek . The absorbance was normalized to the absorbance read at day 0 to quantify the relative cell viability .

The encapsulated cells were stimulated to secret growth factors by adding 0.2 mL of DMEM and 100 ng ml of 12 O Tetradecanoylphorbol 13 actate TPA ATCC reagent into a well of a 96 well plate which contains each cell encapsulating gel. For control experiment cells adhered to a poly styrene cell culture plate were also exposed to the same does of TPA. After incubating the cell hydrogel construct for 24 hours 100 l of cell culture media was mixed with a cocktail of biotinylated detection antibodies and incubated overnight with the proteome profiler mouse angiogenesis array R D Systems . The array membrane was washed to remove unbound material and streptavidin Fluor 430 conjugates Invitrogen and positively stained spots were imaged using a Phosphor Imager Bio Rad . In addition on Days 1 3 and 5 the amount of VEGF secreted by cells was quantitatively evaluated by the sandwich enzyme immunoassay technique using the mouse VEGF Immunoassay kit R D Systems . The sample containing VEGF was pipetted into a well where a polyclonal antibody specific for mouse VEGF has been pre coated and incubated for 2 hours. After washing away any unbound substances an enzyme linked polyclonal antibody specific for mouse VEGF was added to the well. The enzyme reaction yielded a blue colored product and the color intensity was measured using a microplate absorbance reader Synergy HT Biotek . The measured value was converted to the amount of VEGF using a calibration curve. The amount of VEGF was further normalized by the number density of cells initially encapsulated into each hydrogel.

Subsequently fibroblasts that are known to endogenously express proangiogenic factorswere encapsulated into the PEGDA and PEGDA MA hydrogels. The mixture of cells and pre gelled solutions were exposed to the laser of the stereolithography fabrication apparatus to activate in situ photo cross linking reaction . Interestingly cells encapsulated into the PEGDA MA hydrogel remained more viable than those encapsulated into the PEGDA hydrogel regardless of the gel stiffness and . The beneficial role of PEGDA MA hydrogel in enhancing cell viability could be attributed to its increased permeability and subsequently higher water diffusivity .

In parallel effects of matrix properties on cellular expression of proangiogenic factors were examined using the fibroblast encapsulated hydrogels. As revealed by the microarray analysis fibroblasts encapsulated within the PEGDA MA hydrogel expressed larger amounts of multiple proangiogenic factors including vascular endothelial growth factor VEGF proliferin matrix metalloprotein MMP 9 monocyte chemotactic protein 1 MCP 1 Serpin E1 and Endothelin 1 as compared with cells adhered to a 2D poly styrene substrate . Besides the amount of cell secreted VEGF was much larger for cells encapsulated within the PEGDA MA hydrogel as compared with those encapsulated within the PEGDA hydrogel .

Next microchannels with controlled spacing were introduced into the PEGDA MA hydrogels with the goal of driving neovessel growth along its circular pattern FIG. . Neovessel growth direction can be controlled by increasing the flux of the cell secreted proangiogenic factors through the microchannel wall so that the neovessels localize within the microchannel lumen . According to Fick s law of diffusion Eq. 1 above the ratio between the flux of growth factors through the microchannel wall of the stamp J and the flux through the bottom of the stamp with the same cross sectional area as the microchannel J is equal to the ratio between the surface area of microchannel wall S and the cross sectional area of the microchannel S . Hence for a hydrogel with thickness of 200 m it could be predicted that the diameter of the microchannels should be less than 800 m in order to make Jlarger than J.

Based on this prediction microchannels with diameter d of 500 m were fabricated in the PEGDA and PEGDA MA hydrogels using the stereolithographic apparatus SLA . A bottom up fabrication process that has was used to minimize sedimentation of cells during the fabrication process. Incorporation of the microchannels into the hydrogel made minimal difference in the elastic modulus and swelling ratio as compared to the microchannel free hydrogel. Therefore the original diameter of the microchannels was minimally altered during the in vivo incubation regardless of which gel forming polymers were used . However the diffusivity D of water into the PEGDA MA hydrogel as calculated from MRI images Eq. 3 was significantly increased due to the presence of microchannels D 3.14 10cm s . Interestingly the MRI images showed that water diffused into the hydrogel more exclusively through microchannel walls and ultimately led to a faster increase in the amount of water bound to the gel matrix than the microchannel free hydrogels . Incorporation of the microchannels into the hydrogel further increased the fraction of viable cells due to increased chances of nutrient and waste exchange over time . In addition incorporation of the microchannels into the PEGDA MA hydrogel further improved sustainability of secreting VEGF during five days of cell culture .

The function of microvascular stamp to engineering neovessels pattern was examined by implanting the cell hydrogel construct onto chicken chorioallontoic membrane CAM according to a previously developed method . Fertilized chicken eggs Hy Line W 36 were obtained from the University of Illinois Poultry Farm Urbana Ill. . The eggs were initially incubated for 7 days while being placed horizontally inside an incubator at 37 C. and 65 humidity. After the initial incubation period a small window 1.0 1.0 cm was created on top of each egg shell by carefully removing shell fragments. After one day of additional incubation to stabilize CAM and the embryos a gel disk 5 mm diameter 200 m thickness containing fibroblasts with 5 10cells ml implanted on top of the CAM of individual embryos. At Days 0 2 4 and 7 after implantation CAM Images were captured using a S6E stereomicroscope Leica linked with D Lux E Camera Leica . After incubation for seven days the membrane was fixed with 10 neutral buffered formalin NBF for 20 hours. The fixed membrane surrounding the gel structure 10 mm 10 mm was cut out to image the vascular structure using scanning electron microscopy SEM JEOL 7000F SEM . The fixed CAM was washed in PBS several times and subsequently washed in distilled water. Then the CAM was sequentially dehydrated with 70 90 and absolute ethanol and finally dried in air for 24 hours. Finally all samples were mounted on aluminum stubs coated with gold particles in a sputter coater and the surface morphology was examined with SEM.

Finally fibroblast encapsulated hydrogels were implanted onto chorioallantoic membrane CAM to validate whether the bulk permeability and microchannel geometry of the hydrogels affected the creation of neovessels formation. Implantation of the microchannel free PEGDA hydrogel onto the CAM stimulated inflammation within two days most likely because of extravasation of the debris from the dead cells . This result was similar to inflammation stimulated by a fractured hydrogel that physically exposed the encapsulated cells to host tissue . In contrast the microchannel free PEGDA MA hydrogel minimally stimulated host inflammation most likely because of its ability to increase the viability of encapsulated cells . However no specific pattern of neovessels was found with the microchannel free hydrogels . Remarkably implantation of the PEGDA MA hydrogel containing microchannels with diameter of 500 m stimulated the growth of neovessels along its circular pattern. The spacing between the circular neovessels was the same as that between the microchannels introduced into hydrogel . Such patterning of neovessels was not achieved with the same hydrogel loaded only with VEGF rather than the fibroblasts .

The diameter of the microchannels in the PEGDA MA hydrogel was further increased to 1 000 m to validate the important role of the microchannel geometry on engineering the patterning of neovessels. Interestingly none of neovessels replicated the circular pattern of microchannels . Most of the neovessels were formed along random paths as confirmed with bright field image . Scanning electron microscope images showed the less compact vascular layer together with red blood cells that likely leaked from the vessels .

Taken together these results demonstrate that the microvascular stamp comprising live cells expressing multiple proangiogenic factors and an engineered hydrogel with proper rigidity bulk permeability and microchannel geometry created mature and functional neovessels with desired patterns in live tissue. Specifically incorporation of hydrophilic methacrylic alginate significantly increased the elastic modulus of the hydrogel by forming elastic intermolecular networks along with PEGDA. The methacrylic alginate further facilitated diffusion controlled mass flux within the gel which was imaged with MRI and evaluated using the Fick s law of diffusion. The enhanced mass transport greatly increased the number of viable cells as compared with cells encapsulated in the softer and less permeable hydrogel. In addition the larger number of cross links in the PEGDA MA hydrogel provided cells with a sustainable 3D microenvironment crucial for the elevated expression of proangiogenic factors as compared with cells adhered to the 2D substrate.

In addition the microchannel geometry guided by the Fick s law of diffusion was another key factor in engineering patterned neovessels. We demonstrated that the surface area of the microchannel introduced into the cell encapsulated gel mediated the balance between the mass flux through the region of microchannel wall and that through the lower surface of the hydrogel. The proangiogenic factors released through the microchannel wall were possibly localized in the periphery of microchannels. Subsequently the MMPs secreted by cells likely eroded the tissue surface following the circular pattern of microchannels and multiple proangiogenic factors including VEGF MCP 1 and proliferin stimulated the growth of mature and functional neovessels through the engraved routes. Besides limited patterning of the neovessels only with VEGF delivery implicates the necessity of using multiple proangiogenic factors to generate mature and functional neovessels with the desired pattern. However the delivery of multiple growth factors often results in difficulties in regulating their release profiles. Therefore live cells may be the better source to pattern the neovessels because of their intrinsic properties of synthesizing and secreting multiple proangiogenic factors in a sustained manner.

Bulk properties of the microvascular stamp played a critical role in activating cellular expression of proangiogenic factors and the geometry of the microchannel patterns regulated the local distribution of proangiogenic factors on the implant site. These two material variables were orchestrated to spatially organize neovessels into the predefined pattern of the microvascular stamp. The stamp can be readily modified with other cell types such as mesenchymal stem cells which also endogenously express multiple proangiogenic growth factors so the living stamp can be used in various clinical settings. Controlling the bottoms up emerging behavior of the neovessel formation via directed top down cues using the living microvascular stamp can be a major step forward in tissue engineering. Therefore the microvascular stamps of the invention are a powerful tool enabling the improved understanding of vascularization processes in complex tissue development regeneration and pathogenesis in subjects. Microvascular stamps can be used to improve the control of collateral blood flow in clinical treatments of various diseases and tissue defects. In addition the design principles established to assemble the microvascular stamp will be useful in designing a broad array of bioimplants and tissue engineering scaffolds to create on demand microvascular networks in an organized fashion.

Human bone marrow derived mesenchymal stem cells hMSCs were encapsulated in a stamp of the invention. Vascularization activity of the stamp was observed. Viability of the hMSCs encapsulated in the microvascular stamp was evaluated using a calorimetric assay that measures metabolic activity. A population of hMSCs survived the stereolithographic process and remained viable within the microvascular stamp for at least 7 days. See . The cellular VEGF secretion level was determined using a human VEGF ELISA kit. The amount of cell secreted VEGF for five days was 10 times larger than NIH 3T3 cells in the stamp. See . The microvascular stamps were implanted on CAM membranes and blood vessels were generated with the same pattern as the microchannels. See and

Therefore human bone marrow derived mesenchymal stem cells hMSCs were encapsulated into a stamp of the invention and were demonstrated as a stable cell source along with sustained and high expression of pro angiogenic growth factors . The result is the generation of the growth of new blood vessels within circular patterns of defined spacing .

