---

title: System and method for controlling a remote aerial device for up-close inspection
abstract: The method and system may be used to control the movement of a remote aerial device in an incremental step manner during a close inspection of an object or other subject matter. At the inspection location, a control module “stabilizes” the remote aerial device in a maintained, consistent hover while maintaining a close distance to the desired object. The control module may retrieve proximal sensor data that indicates possible nearby obstructions to the remote aerial device and may transmit the data to a remote control client. The remote control module may determine and display the possible one or more non-obstructed directions that the remote aerial device is capable of moving by an incremental distance. In response to receiving a selection of one of the directions, the remote control module may transmit the selection to the remote aerial device to indicate the next movement for the remote aerial device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09428270&OS=09428270&RS=09428270
owner: STATE FARM MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE COMPANY
number: 09428270
owner_city: Bloomington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150520
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 305 272 filed Jun. 16 2014 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 893 904 subsequently issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 818 572 filed May 14 2013 which application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 801 501 entitled System and Method for Controlling A Remote Aerial Device For Up Close Inspection filed Mar. 15 2013 which are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The present disclosure relates to remote controlled devices and more particularly to precisely controlling a remote aerial device for up close inspection of a subject.

After an accident or loss property owners typically file claims with their insurance companies. In response to these claims the insurance companies assign an agent to investigate the claims to determine the extent of damage and or loss and to provide their clients with appropriate compensation.

Often the claim investigations can be time consuming difficult and even dangerous for the insurance agents. For example in order to investigate a claim for damage to a home owner s roof an agent may have to climb onto the roof and perform inspections while on the owner s roof. By climbing on the roof and attempting to maneuver around the roof to perform his inspection the insurance agent opens himself to a real risk of injury especially in difficult weather conditions where the roof may be slippery because of rain snow and or ice and winds may be severe.

Even if the insurance agent performs the inspection without getting injured performing the full investigation may still be time consuming. In addition to the time required to drive to and from the incident site and to perform the inspection itself significant paperwork and calculations may be involved in calculating compensation owed to the clients. For example if an insurance agent takes photos on the roof of a client s building to assess a claim for roof damage from a hurricane in order to calculate how much money should be paid to the client the agent may have to come back to his office research the client s property research the cost of the damaged property and research repair costs. All of these steps are time consuming and both delay payment to the client and prevent the agent from assessing other client claims.

In situations where the insurance company has received a large number of claims in a short time period e.g. when a town is affected by a hurricane tornado or other natural disaster an insurance agent may not have time to perform timely claim investigations of all the received claims. If claim investigations are not performed quickly property owners may not receive recovery for their losses for long periods of time. Additionally long time delays when performing claim investigations can lead to inaccurate investigations results e.g. the delay may lead to increased opportunity for fraud and or may make it more difficult to ascertain the extent of damage at the time of the accident or loss .

Insurance companies have recently attempted to use remote controlled devices to assist in investigating claims. In this case the insurance agent generally visits the site of the claim and uses a remote controlled device to investigate a roof of a client. The device may include a remote controlled balloon a helicopter a robot capable of scaling a building etc. The remote controlled device may employ a camera video camcorder etc. to gather data about subject matter related to the claim e.g. the roof of the client and may transmit this data to the user whom remains firmly on the ground. However the insurance agent is required to visit the site because the remote controlled device generally is controlled by a short distance radio controlled handheld console. Furthermore the operator must have extensive flight training and practice time to successfully and safely operate the remote controlled device.

Generally a remote control system may be used to control the movement of a remote aerial device in an incremental step manner during a close inspection of an object or other subject matter. A user may desire to closely inspect an object or a subject from a remote location using a remote aerial device. The user may deploy a remote aerial device with data collection equipment to the location of the object using standard navigation techniques for an unmanned aerial vehicle. After the remote aerial device reaches the location a control module operating on the remote aerial device may enter the remote aerial device into an inspection mode in which the control module stabilizes the remote aerial device in a maintained consistent hover that is substantially stationary in three dimensional space while maintaining a close distance to the object. The control module may retrieve proximal sensor data that indicates possible nearby obstructions e.g. walls trees buildings radio towers landscapes etc. from the proximity sensors on board the remote aerial device. Moreover the proximal sensors may be implemented to detect objects within a specific distance threshold within any three dimension of the stationary hover position of the remote aerial device. The control module may retrieve a geographic location and an altitude that corresponds to the current hover position of the remote aerial device.

The control module may transmit this proximal sensor data the geographic location and the altitude to a remote control module that operates on a remote control client. The remote control module may determine the possible one or more non obstructed directions that the remote aerial device is capable of moving by an incremental distance. The incremental distance may be a predetermined distance or may be dynamic depending on certain environments or situations. The remote control module may display or otherwise indicate the one or more possible non obstructed directions that the remote aerial device may move to the user. In response to receiving a selection of one of the directions from the user the remote control module may transmit the selection to the control module operating on the remote aerial device. The control module may move the remote aerial device by the incremental distance in the direction of the selected direction and again may stabilize the remote aerial device.

Referring first to a system includes a remote control client coupled to both a remote aerial device and a server via a communication network . The remote control client may be for example a laptop computer a tablet computer a smartphone etc. In the embodiment illustrated in the remote control client includes a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU a computer readable memory and a user interface including a touch interface voice interface etc. In various implementations the touch interface can include a touchpad over which the user moves his fingers while looking at a separately provided screen a touchscreen where the user places his fingers directly over the image being manipulated or over a displayed control being activated e.g. a displayed keyboard etc. In other implementations the voice interface may include any device that includes a microphone such as a Bluetooth ear piece a smartphone etc. The memory is a computer readable non transitory storage device that may include both persistent e.g. a hard disk and non persistent e.g. RAM memory components stores instructions executable on the CPU and or the GPU that make up a remote control module and location data and sensor data on which the remote control module operates. The remote control module includes an incremental movement module that allows a user to easily control the remote aerial device via step like incremental movements in which one incremental movement is in response to one single user command.

The remote control module according to various implementations operates as a separately executable software application a plugin that extends the functionality of another software application such as a web browser an application programming interface API invokable by a software application etc. The instructions that make up the remote control module may be compiled and executable on the CPU and or the GPU directly or not compiled and interpreted by the CPU at runtime. Further the incremental movement module may be provided as an integral part of the remote control module or as a separately installable and downloadable component.

Referring still to the remote aerial device includes a controller that communicates with one or more proximity sensors one or more stabilization sensors a Global Positioning System GPS unit an image sensor and a communications unit . The controller includes a processor that executes instructions from a computer readable memory to implement a control module and a stabilization module . The control module may invoke the stabilization module to retrieve data from the stabilization sensors i.e. sensors relating avionics to implement a control function such as that associated with a control routine that performs PID proportional integral derivative fuzzy logic nonlinear etc. control to maintain the stability of the remote aerial device . For instance the stabilization sensors may include one or more of a directional speed sensor a rotational speed sensors a tilt angle sensor an inertial sensor an accelerometer sensor or any other suitable sensor for assisting in stabilization of an aerial craft. The stabilization module may utilize the data retrieved from these stabilization sensors to control the stability of the remote aerial device in a maintained consistent hover that is substantially stationary in three dimensional space while maintaining close distance e.g. 12 18 inches to the object. Of course the stabilization module may implement any suitable technique of stabilizing the remote aerial device in a hover or stationary three dimensional position.

The control module may retrieve data from the proximity sensors to determine nearby objects obstructions etc. that hinder movement of the remote aerial device . These proximity sensors may include any sensor or technique that assists the control module in determining a distance and a direction to any nearby object. The one or more proximity sensors may include ultrasonic sensors infrared sensors LIDAR Light Detection and Ranging a stereo vision system SVS that may utilize the image sensors e.g. one or more cameras to implement stereoscopic imaging techniques to determine a distance and or any other suitable method in determining the distance from the remote aerial device to a nearby object.

The GPS unit may use Assisted GPS A GPS satellite GPS or any other suitable global positioning protocol or system that locates the position the device. For example A GPS utilizes terrestrial cell phone towers or wi fi hotspots e.g. wireless router points to more accurately and more quickly determine location of the device while satellite GPS generally are more useful in more remote regions that lack cell towers or wifi hotspots. The communication unit may communicate with the server via any suitable wireless communication protocol network such as a wireless telephony network e.g. GSM CDMA LTE etc. a wi fi network 802.11 standards a WiMAX network a Bluetooth network etc.

In an example scenario the server receives a request that specifies a customer a structure a pre stored route etc. The server in response retrieves insurance data e.g. customer biographical information type of property etc. and location data e.g. a property location of a customer etc. from a customer database and a location database respectively. The server then provides the customer data the location data and appropriate indications of how certain portions of the customer data and the location data are linked to the remote control client as part of the location data . The remote control client may use this location data to determine a geographic location that the remote aerial device is initially sent. Of course the customer database and the location database may be disposed within the remote control client depending on implementations.

After the remote aerial device transitions into inspection mode the control module may invoke the stabilization module to stabilize the remote aerial device at the specific geographic location and the specific altitude associated with the target location block . With the remote aerial device stabilized in a substantially stationary position the control module may retrieve proximal sensor data from the proximity sensors block . The method additionally includes determining whether the control module includes the capability of determining non obstructed incremental movement directions of the remote aerial device block . If the control module does include this capability then the control module determines the location of the proximal obstructions within a distance threshold using the retrieved proximal data block . For example the control module may utilize an absolute compass and determine the position or the location of each obstruction relative to a cardinal ordinate or may base the direction of the obstructions relative to the direction the remote aerial device is facing. The control module may incorporate one or more locations of mountings of proximity sensors on the remote aerial device in determining the position of nearby objects relative to the remote aerial device . For example if two proximity sensors are mounted on a right side of the remote aerial device the control module may determine a location of a nearby obstruction relative to the right side of the remote aerial device .

Referring to after determining the locations of the nearby obstructions the control module may determine one or more possible non obstructed directions for the remote aerial device to incrementally move block . While the remote aerial device remains in the hover stationary position the control module may adhere to a specific movement pattern such as only moving in the six main three dimensional directions e.g. forward backward sideways to the left sideways to the right up and down moving with higher degrees of freedom within a two dimensional plane level that runs parallel to the ground with up and down e.g. eight directions in the two dimensional plane up and down or any other movement regime that is suitable for an untrained remote control operator. Thus the control module may determine the possible non obstructed directions for the remote aerial device to incrementally move while adhering to a specific movement pattern. For example if the control module is using the six main three dimensional directions and obstructions are discovered to be located above and below within the distance threshold the control module determines that the only directions of possible movement for the remote aerial device are forward backward sideways to the left and sideways to the right.

In response to this determination the control module may transmit the determined directions of possible movement to remote control client block . Additionally the control module may retrieve and transmit spatial position data e.g. a geographic location and an altitude to the remote control client block . Likewise referring back to the block if the control module does not include the capability in determining non obstructed incremental movement directions the control module may transfer control to the block to transmit only the spatial position data. The remote control module may receive a selection of one of the directions of possible movement from the user and transmit the selection to the control module of remote aerial device described below . The control module may receive the selection block and may move the remote aerial device by the distance of one incremental movement. The distance of the one incremental movement may be a predetermined distance such as one inch one foot etc. or may dynamically driven based the context of the object to be inspected e.g. a single family house large urban skyscraper etc. After traveling the distance of the one incremental movement the control module may invoke the stabilization module again to bring the remote aerial device back into a stationary hover position at the block .

Referring to the remote control module determines whether any possible non obstructed incremental movement directions are available or received from the remote aerial device block . If no possible directions are provided by the remote aerial device the remote control module may determine the location of proximal obstructions with the distance threshold using the proximal sensor data block . The remote control module may determine the location of proximal obstructions in a similar manner to the determination performed by control module at the block in . Likewise as illustrated in the remote control module may determine one or more possible non obstructed directions for the remote aerial device to incrementally move in a similar manner to the determination performed by the control module in the block in block .

Referring back to the remote control module may invoke the increment movement module to display the geographic location and the altitude in conjunction with the determined possible directions that the remote aerial device may move incrementally in a non obstructed manner blocks . In response to displaying the possible directions of movement the remote control module may receive a selection of one of the directions of movement via the user interface block . For example the remote control module may receive the selection via a tapping gesture on the touch interface . Likewise the selection may be received by a voice command via the voice interface . Upon receiving the selection the remote control module transmits the selection of the direction of movement to the control module to signal a change in position of the remote aerial device block .

Similarly the remote control module may also receive a selection of a rate of speed of the remote aerial device from the user or of course the rate of speed may also be predetermined. The control module may use this rate of speed to implement a constant rate of speed on the remote aerial device in the case that the user selects multiple incremental movements or selects the movements in a rapid succession. The constant rate of speed may be beneficial in obtaining smooth video data from the image sensors . Moreover the system also allows for the remote aerial device to capture images of the object e.g. a single family house via the image sensors and to image process the captured images to produce a waypoint route for the remote aerial device to follow in lieu of human input. Alternatively a user may input the waypoints manually and determine a constant rate of speed of the remote aerial device for the route. The system may incorporate a payload weight of the remote aerial device to determine a number of waypoints and speed. The system may also create a travel boundary that bounds or contains the remote aerial device within the travel boundary.

The following additional considerations apply to the foregoing discussion. Throughout this specification plural instances may implement components operations or structures described as a single instance. Although individual operations of one or more methods are illustrated and described as separate operations one or more of the individual operations may be performed concurrently and nothing requires that the operations be performed in the order illustrated. Structures and functionality presented as separate components in example configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or component. Similarly structures and functionality presented as a single component may be implemented as separate components. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements fall within the scope of the subject matter of the present disclosure.

Additionally certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components or modules. Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code stored on a machine readable medium or hardware modules. A hardware module is tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more hardware modules of a computer system e.g. a processor or a group of processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In some cases a hardware module may include dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. as a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC to perform certain operations. A hardware module may also include programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware module in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the term hardware should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner or to perform certain operations described herein. Considering embodiments in which hardware modules are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the hardware modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where the hardware modules comprise a general purpose processor configured using software the general purpose processor may be configured as respective different hardware modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure a processor for example to constitute a particular hardware module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware module at a different instance of time.

Hardware and software modules can provide information to and receive information from other hardware and or software modules. Accordingly the described hardware modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiple of such hardware or software modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses that connect the hardware or software modules. In embodiments in which multiple hardware modules or software are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such hardware or software modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware or software modules have access. For example one hardware or software module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware or software module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware and software modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

Similarly the methods or routines described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or processors or processor implemented hardware modules. The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or as a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a SaaS. For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. application program interfaces APIs . 

The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the one or more processors or processor implemented modules may be located in a single geographic location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or a server farm . In other example embodiments the one or more processors or processor implemented modules may be distributed across a number of geographic locations.

Some portions of this specification are presented in terms of algorithms or symbolic representations of operations on data stored as bits or binary digital signals within a machine memory e.g. a computer memory . These algorithms or symbolic representations are examples of techniques used by those of ordinary skill in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. As used herein an algorithm or a routine is a self consistent sequence of operations or similar processing leading to a desired result. In this context algorithms routines and operations involve physical manipulation of physical quantities. Typically but not necessarily such quantities may take the form of electrical magnetic or optical signals capable of being stored accessed transferred combined compared or otherwise manipulated by a machine. It is convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to such signals using words such as data content bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers numerals or the like. These words however are merely convenient labels and are to be associated with appropriate physical quantities.

Unless specifically stated otherwise discussions herein using words such as processing computing calculating determining presenting displaying or the like may refer to actions or processes of a machine e.g. a computer that manipulates or transforms data represented as physical e.g. electronic magnetic or optical quantities within one or more memories e.g. volatile memory non volatile memory or a combination thereof registers or other machine components that receive store transmit or display information.

As used herein any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular element feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. For example some embodiments may be described using the term coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

As used herein the terms comprises comprising includes including has having or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion. For example a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements is not necessarily limited to only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. Further unless expressly stated to the contrary or refers to an inclusive or and not to an exclusive or. For example a condition A or B is satisfied by any one of the following A is true or present and B is false or not present A is false or not present and B is true or present and both A and B are true or present .

In addition use of the a or an are employed to describe elements and components of the embodiments herein. This is done merely for convenience and to give a general sense of the description. This description should be read to include one or at least one and the singular also includes the plural unless it is obvious that it is meant otherwise.

Upon reading this disclosure those of skill in the art will appreciate still additional alternative structural and functional designs for providing an interface for inspecting indoor and outdoor map data through the disclosed principles herein. Thus while particular embodiments and applications have been illustrated and described it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are not limited to the precise construction and components disclosed herein. Various modifications changes and variations which will be apparent to those skilled in the art may be made in the arrangement operation and details of the method and apparatus disclosed herein without departing from the spirit and scope defined in the appended claims.

