---

title: Blind decoding for an enhanced physical downlink control channel (EPDCCH)
abstract: Technology for a user equipment (UE) configured for blind decoding downlink control information (DCI) from an enhanced physical downlink control channel (EPDCCH). The UE can receive, from a base station, the EPDCCH that includes the DCI. The UE can attempt one or more times to decode the DCI from enhanced control channel elements (ECCE) of the EPDCCH from physical resource block (PRB) region candidates in a PRB set using a selected set of enhanced resource element group (EREG) index maps for the ECCE until the DCI is successfully decoded. The resource elements (REs) of a PRB pair can include a block of symbols mapped in sequence to resource elements on an associated port when the REs are part of the EREGs assigned for the EPDCCH transmission.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09549404&OS=09549404&RS=09549404
owner: INTEL CORPORATION
number: 09549404
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151013
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 931 102 filed Jun. 28 2013 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 707 784 filed Sep. 28 2012 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 719 241 filed Oct. 26 2012 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 721 436 filed Nov. 1 2012 all of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Wireless mobile communication technology uses various standards and protocols to transmit data between a node e.g. a transmission station or a transceiver node and a wireless device e.g. a mobile device . Some wireless devices communicate using orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA in a downlink DL transmission and single carrier frequency division multiple access SC FDMA in an uplink UL transmission. Standards and protocols that use orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM for signal transmission include the third generation partnership project 3GPP long term evolution LTE the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.16 standard e.g. 802.16e 802.16m which is commonly known to industry groups as WiMAX Worldwide interoperability for Microwave Access and the IEEE 802.11 standard which is commonly known to industry groups as WiFi.

In 3GPP radio access network RAN LTE systems the node can be a combination of Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network E UTRAN Node Bs also commonly denoted as evolved Node Bs enhanced Node Bs eNodeBs or eNBs and Radio Network Controllers RNCs which communicate with the wireless device known as a user equipment UE . The downlink DL transmission can be a communication from the node e.g. eNodeB to the wireless device e.g. UE and the uplink UL transmission can be a communication from the wireless device to the node.

In LTE data can be transmitted from the eNodeB to the UE via a physical downlink shared channel PDSCH . A physical downlink control channel PDCCH can be used to transfer downlink control information DCI that informs the UE about resource allocations or scheduling related to downlink resource assignments on the PDSCH uplink resource grants and uplink power control commands. The PDCCH can be transmitted prior the PDSCH in each subframe transmitted from the eNodeB to the UE.

Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended.

Before the present invention is disclosed and described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular structures process steps or materials disclosed herein but is extended to equivalents thereof as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular examples only and is not intended to be limiting. The same reference numerals in different drawings represent the same element. Numbers provided in flow charts and processes are provided for clarity in illustrating steps and operations and do not necessarily indicate a particular order or sequence.

An initial overview of technology embodiments is provided below and then specific technology embodiments are described in further detail later. This initial summary is intended to aid readers in understanding the technology more quickly but is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the technology nor is it intended to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

The communication of data on the physical downlink shared channel PDSCH can be controlled via a control channel referred to as a physical downlink control channel PDCCH . The PDCCH can be used for downlink DL and uplink UL resource assignments transmit power commands and paging indicators. The PDSCH scheduling grant can be designated to a particular wireless device e.g. UE for dedicated PDSCH resource allocation to carry UE specific traffic or the PDSCH scheduling grant can be designated to all wireless devices in the cell for common PDSCH resource allocation to carry broadcast control information such as system information or paging.

In one example the PDCCH and PDSCH can represent elements of a radio frame structure transmitted on the physical PHY layer in a downlink transmission between a node e.g. eNodeB and the wireless device e.g. UE using a generic 3GPP long term evolution LTE frame structure as illustrated in .

Each slot for a component carrier CC used by the node and the wireless device can include multiple resource blocks RBs and based on the CC frequency bandwidth. The CC can have a carrier frequency having a bandwidth and center frequency. Each subframe of the CC can include downlink control information DCI found in the legacy PDCCH. The legacy PDCCH in the control region can include one to three columns of the first OFDM symbols in each subframe or physical RB PRB when a legacy PDCCH is used. The remaining 11 to 13 OFDM symbols or 14 OFDM symbols when legacy PDCCH is not used in the subframe may be allocated to the PDSCH for data for short or normal cyclic prefix .

The control region can include physical control format indicator channel PCFICH physical hybrid automatic repeat request hybrid ARQ indicator channel PHICH and the PDCCH. The control region has a flexible control design to avoid unnecessary overhead. The number of OFDM symbols in the control region used for the PDCCH can be determined by the control channel format indicator CFI transmitted in the physical control format indicator channel PCFICH . The PCFICH can be located in the first OFDM symbol of each subframe. The PCFICH and PHICH can have priority over the PDCCH so the PCFICH and PHICH are scheduled prior to the PDCCH.

Each RB physical RB or PRB can include 12 15 kHz subcarriers on the frequency axis and 6 or 7 orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM symbols on the time axis per slot. The RB can use seven OFDM symbols if a short or normal cyclic prefix is employed. The RB can use six OFDM symbols if an extended cyclic prefix is used. The resource block can be mapped to 84 resource elements REs using short or normal cyclic prefixing or the resource block can be mapped to 72 REs not shown using extended cyclic prefixing. The RE can be a unit of one OFDM symbol by one subcarrier i.e. 15 kHz .

Each RE can transmit two bits and of information in the case of quadrature phase shift keying QPSK modulation. Other types of modulation may be used such as 16 quadrature amplitude modulation QAM or 64 QAM to transmit a greater number of bits in each RE or bi phase shift keying BPSK modulation to transmit a lesser number of bits a single bit in each RE. The RB can be configured for a downlink transmission from the eNodeB to the UE or the RB can be configured for an uplink transmission from the UE to the eNodeB.

Each wireless device may use at least one bandwidth. The bandwidth may be referred to as a signal bandwidth carrier bandwidth or component carrier CC bandwidth as illustrated in . For example the LTE CC bandwidths can include 1.4 MHz 3 MHz 5 MHz 10 MHz 15 MHz and 20 MHz . The 1.4 MHz CC can include 6 RBs comprising 72 subcarriers. The 3 MHz CC can include 15 RBs comprising 180 subcarriers. The 5 MHz CC can include 25 RBs comprising 300 subcarriers. The 10 MHz CC can include 50 RBs comprising 600 subcarriers. The 15 MHz CC can include 75 RBs comprising 900 subcarriers. The 20 MHz CC can include 100 RBs comprising 1200 subcarriers.

The data carried on the PDCCH can be referred to as downlink control information DCI . Multiple wireless devices can be scheduled in one subframe of a radio frame. Therefore multiple DCI messages can be sent using multiple PDCCHs. The DCI information in a PDCCH can be transmitted using one or more control channel elements CCE . A CCE can be comprised of a group of resource element groups REGs . A legacy CCE can include up to nine REGs. Each legacy REG can be comprised of four resource elements REs . Each resource element can include two bits of information when quadrature modulation is used. Therefore a legacy CCE can include up to 72 bits of information. When more than 72 bits of information are needed to convey the DCI message multiple CCEs can be employed. The use of multiple CCEs can be referred to as an aggregation level. In one example the aggregation levels can be defined as 1 2 4 or 8 consecutive CCEs allocated to one legacy PDCCH.

The legacy PDCCH can create limitations to advances made in other areas of wireless communication. For example mapping of CCEs to subframes in OFDM symbols can typically be spread over the control region to provide frequency diversity. However no beam forming diversity may be possible with the current mapping procedures of the PDCCH. Moreover the capacity of the legacy PDCCH may not be sufficient for advanced control signaling.

To overcome the limitations of the legacy PDCCH an enhanced PDCCH EPDCCH can use the REs in an entire PRB or PRB pair where a PRB pair can be two contiguous PRBs using the same subcarrier s subframe instead of just the first one to three columns of OFDM symbols in a first slot PRB in a subframe as in the legacy PDCCH. Accordingly the EPDCCH can be configured with increased capacity to allow advances in the design of cellular networks and to minimize currently known challenges and limitations.

Unlike the legacy PDCCH the EPDCCH can be mapped to the same REs or region in a PRB as the PDSCH but in different PRBs. In an example the PDSCH and the EPDCCH may not be multiplexed within a same PRB or a same PRB pair . Thus if one PRB or one PRB pair contains an EPDCCH the unused REs in the PRB or PRB pair may be blanked since the REs may not be used for the PDSCH. The EPDCCH can be localized e.g. localized EPDCCH or distributed e.g. distributed EPDCCH . Localized EPDCCH can refer to the entire EPDCCH e.g. EREGs or ECCEs within the PRB pair. Distributed EPDCCH can refer to EPDCCH e.g. EREGs or ECCEs spread over plurality of PRB pairs.

Blind decoding can be used to detect a UE s DCI including the DCI transmitted in the legacy PDCCH. The UE may only be informed of the number of OFDM symbols within the control region of a subframe and may not be provided with an exact location of the UE s corresponding PDCCH. The PDCCH or EPDCCH can provide control information to multiple UEs in a cell for each subframe k. The UE can perform blind decoding since the UE may be aware of the detailed control channel structure including the number of control channels CCHs and the number of control channel elements CCEs to which each control channel is mapped. Multiple PDCCHs can be transmitted in a single subframe k which may or may not be relevant to a particular UE. Because the UE does not know the precise location of the DCI information in a PDCCH the UE can search and decode the CCEs in the PDCCH until the DCI is found for the UE s CCs. The PDCCH candidates for DCI detection can be referred to as a search space. The UE can find the PDCCH specific to the UE or the UE s CCs by monitoring a set of PDCCH candidates a set of consecutive CCEs on which the PDCCH could be mapped in a PDCCH search space in each subframe.

In the 3GPP LTE specification such as in Release 8 9 10 or 11 the UE can use a radio network temporary identifier RNTI that can be assigned to the UE by the eNB to try and decode candidates. The RNTI can be used to demask a PDCCH candidate s cyclic redundancy check CRC that was originally masked by the eNB using the UE s RNTI. If the PDCCH is for a specific UE the CRC can be masked with a UE unique identifier for example a cell RNTI C RNTI used in a downlink. If no CRC error is detected the UE can determine that a PDCCH candidate carries the DCI for the UE. If a CRC error is detected then the UE can determine that PDCCH candidate does not carry the DCI for the UE and the UE can increment to the next PDCCH candidate. The UE may increment to the next PDCCH candidate in the search space based on the CCE aggregation level AL .

The number of CCEs used to transmit one piece of control information can be determined according to the transmission mode the receiving quality of the PDCCH allocated to the UE or the channel quality of the UE and the number of CCEs is referred to as a CCE aggregation level a legacy aggregation level L 1 2 4 8 an enhanced control channel elements ECCE aggregation level L 1 2 4 8 16 32 or just aggregation level AL . The aggregation level can be used to determine the size of a search space or the number of CCEs or ECCEs forming a search space and or the number of control channel CCH candidates in a search space. The aggregation level of the UE s DCI may not be known at the UE which can be referred to as aggregation level ambiguity. During blind decoding the UE may assume an AL. For blind decoding ECCEs the UE may also assume a lowest ECCE value used to transmit DCIs. The lowest ECCE value of the DCIs may not be known at the UE which can be referred to as lowest ECCE ambiguity. The ECCE and an enhanced resource element group EREG can be associated with EPDCCH and CCE and REG can be associated with PDCCH.

Aggregation level ambiguity ALA can cause performance degradation for PDSCH especially when EPDCCHs are transmitted with PDSCHs. When a UE detects the UE s DL assignment defining a PDSCH allocation which can overlap with the PRB pair s containing the DL assignment e.g. EPDCCH the UE can assume that the PDSCH scheduled by the DL assignment is rate matched around the PRB pair s containing the UE s DL assignment as illustrated in . A resource allocation can include three PRB pairs e.g. two contiguous slots . A PRB pair 0 A can include the EPDCCH used to transmit the DCI resource allocation RA for PRB pair 0 1 and 2. A PRB pair 1 B and PRB pair 2 C can include the PDSCH A B.

The rate matching RM process can adapt the code rate of the LTE data transmissions such that the number of information and parity bits to be transmitted matches the resource allocation. For example based on a mother code rate of the turbo coder the LTE rate matching can use a circular buffer to either repeat bits to decrease the code rate or puncture bits to increase the code rate.

If the DCI indicates PRB 0 1 2 are allocated for PDSCH and the DCI itself is detected in PRB 0 UE can rate matching around PRB 0 and may only decode PDSCH from PRB 1 2. One PRB pair may contain 2 or 4 ECCEs. illustrates an example of four ECCEs e.g. ECCE 0 4 in one PRB pair e.g. slot n and slot n 1 . illustrates frequency first sequential mapping of RE across the REs for the ECCEs occupied by the DCI. The REs for the ECCE can be mapped around the demodulation reference signals DMRS . The number labeled in each RE is the EREG index. In an example the same EREG index can be used for each aggregation level. In another example not shown time first sequential mapping of RE across the REs for the ECCEs occupied by the DCI can be used.

Not only does aggregation level ambiguity present some challenges but lowest ECCE ambiguity can also generate some inefficiencies in blind decoding. Based on a legacy definition of PDCCH search space e.g. as defined in 3GPP LTE standard Release 8 Technical Specification TS 36.213 the resources of one aggregation level that the UE monitors for PDCCH blind detection can overlap with the resources of another aggregation level. For example shows overlapping CCEs where the UE can monitor CCE 1 2 3 4 5 6 to detect DCI with aggregation level 1 and monitor CCE 1 2 3 4 5 6 to detect DCI with aggregation level 2.

Since rate matching can be used to generate the DCI the payloads in CCE 2 AL1 in an example can be an exact repetition of payloads in CCE 1. Similarly the payloads in CCE 3 4 AL2 B in an example can be an exact repetition of payloads in CCE 1 2 AL2 A . A lowest CCE index confusion issue or lowest ECCE ambiguity can result. For legacy PDCCH padding zero bits can be used to make the payload size of DCI not equal to any one of 12 14 16 20 24 26 32 40 44 56 as in as defined in 3GPP LTE standard Release 8 TS 36.212. Padding zero bits may not be available for EPDCCH.

The payload size 12 14 16 20 24 26 32 40 44 56 is optimized in 3GPP LTE standard Release 8 TS 36.212 with an assumption that CCE size is 36 REs. However in the EPDCCH design the ECCE size can be variable due to different configuration of cell specific reference signals CRS channel state information reference signals CSI RS and or legacy control. So the DCI size can be optimized for EPDCCH considering different ECCE sizes.

For example a payload size that can result in aggregation level confusion issue can satisfy the criteria represented by n 3 2 k m n cce where k and m are integers and m 1 2 4 8 16 n represents a payload size m represents a number of occupied CCEs k represents a starting point of repetitions of the coded block n cce represents a size of an ECCE and n is less than 16 m n cce 2 3 4. The coding rate can be less than otherwise the UE may not decode the payload.

Based on the criteria of the example the payload sizes e.g. raw payload size 48 or 28 that can cause aggregation level confusion for different ECCE sizes e.g. 12 24 or 33 is illustrated in Table 1. Table 1 illustrates payload sizes that can cause aggregation confusion for different ECCE sizes m 1 2 4 8 16 .

To assist in resolving some aggregation level confusion 3GPP LTE standard Release 11 e.g. V11.1.0 2012 12 Technical Specification TS 36.212 Table 5.3.3.1.2 1 can be modified to include 28 and 48 information bits for ambiguous sizes represented by Table 2.

In another example a forward compatible table to include m 1 2 3 . . . 16 as shown in Table 3 can be used instead of the aggregation levels the UE monitors m 1 2 4 8 16 . Table 3 illustrates payload sizes that can cause aggregation confusion for different ECCE sizes m 1 2 3 . . . 16 . Table 2 is defined including the payload sizes that can lead to aggregation level ambiguity given different aggregation levels.

Various methods can be used to resolve the aggregation level ambiguity and the lowest ECCE ambiguity. For example a unique frequency first or time first sequential mapping across the REs occupied by the DCI may be used for each aggregation level e.g. alternative one . illustrates an EREG index map for an AL 2 . illustrates an EREG index map for an AL 1 . illustrates an EREG index map that can be used for an AL 4 or AL 8. The EREG index map not shown can also use a separate time first sequential EREG index map for AL 1 AL 2 or AL 4 or AL 8.

Instead of mapping modulated symbols to REs in one ECCE and then mapping to REs in another ECCE as used for legacy PDCCH the eNB can use a frequency first or time first mapping across the REs that are used to transmit the DCI i.e. mapping across both the ECCE and the EREG . Since each EREG ECCE can be distributed in one PRB pair the aggregation level mapping can result in different symbol mapping order for different aggregation levels and different EREGs. Even if repetition exists in the encoded bits see the UE may not decode the DCI correctly with an incorrect AL assumption e.g. resolving AL ambiguity or incorrect starting ECCE assumption e.g. resolving lowest ECCE ambiguity . Using an aggregation level EREG index map can solves both AL ambiguity and lowest ECCE ambiguity.

In another example aggregation level ambiguity can be resolved using an aggregation level specific phase shifting for all modulated symbols e.g. alternative two as illustrated in . illustrates physical channel processing for an eNB. As previously discussed a UE unique identifier such as a cell RNTI C RNTI can be used to mask the DCI. A cyclic redundancy check CRC can be used for error detection in DCI messages. The entire PDCCH payload can be used to calculate a set of CRC parity bits. The CRC parity bits can then be appended to the end of the PDCCH payload. During CRC attachment control information e.g. DCI for a UE can be masked with the RNTI of the UE.

The RNTI can be used for scrambling the cyclic redundancy check CRC attached to a specific DCI format. Cyclic redundancy check CRC can be an error detecting code appended to a block of data to be transmitted. The value of the CRC can be calculated from the block of data. The length of the CRC can determine the number of errors which can be detected in the block of data on reception of the data. A CRC may not be able to correct errors or determine which bits are erroneous.

Then the DCI message with the CRC attachment can undergo channel coding such as tail biting convolutional coding CC by a channel encoder. Convolutional coding is a form of forward error correction. Convolutional coding can improve the channel capacity by adding carefully selected redundant information. For example LTE can use a rate tail biting encoder with a constraint length k 7 which means that one in three bits of the output contain useful information while the other two add redundancy. A tail biting convolutional coder can initialize its internal shift register to the last k bits of the current input block rather than to an all zeros state which means the start and end states can be the same without the need to zero pad the input block. The overhead of terminating the coder can be eliminated so the output block can contain fewer bits than a standard convolutional coder.

At the UE the tail biting convolutional decoder design may be more complicated since the initial state may be unknown but the decoder knows the start and end states are the same. In another example a channel decoder can be implemented using a Viterbi algorithm.

A rate matching module can create an output bitstream with a desired code rate as previously discussed. A modulator can be used to modulate the output bitstream. The modulator can use various modulation and coding schemes MCS such as quadrature phase shift keying QPSK modulation. Modulation is the process of varying one or more properties of a periodic waveform called the carrier signal with a modulating signal which typically contains information to be transmitted e.g. DCI .

A module e.g. AL specific phase shifter can provide an aggregation level specific phase shifting for all modulated symbols . For example AL specific phase shifting can be added in addition to an EPDCCH generation procedure. For instance if four aggregation levels can be used for EPDCCH transmission each AL can be assign one of four phase shifting factors e.g. 1 j 1 j . The eNB can select one shifting factor according to the aggregation level and multiply on all the modulated symbols e.g. QPSK modulated symbols . The phase shifting factor can be used to solve the AL ambiguity issue.

In another example on top of AL specific phase shifting EREG specific phase shifting for the EREGs within one PRB pair may also be used. The EREG specific phase shifting for the EREGs can solve the lowest ECCE ambiguity issue. The EREG shifting factor can be the same or different with aggregation level specific shifting factors.

After aggregation level specific phase shifting the phase shifted modulated symbols can be mapped to resource elements by a mapper on one or various layers e.g. REs can be shown in .

In another example aggregation level ambiguity can be resolved using an aggregation level specific scrambling on the uncoded e.g. raw DCI bits e.g. alternative three using an aggregation level specific scrambler as illustrated in . illustrates physical channel processing for an eNB. The scrambling sequence can have the same length as the uncoded DCI bits. For instance for four aggregation levels the sequences could be 

Other scrambling sequence patterns not shown may also be used. Each aggregation level e.g. 1 2 4 8 16 or 32 can use a different and unique scrambling sequence pattern. After raw DCI bit aggregation level specific scrambling the DCI bits can undergo CRC attachment and other physical channel processing operations as previous described.

In another configuration e.g. alternative four for distributed EPDCCH transmission the AL ambiguity may only occur when the eNB transmits with AL1 and the UE decodes correctly with AL2 AL4 or ALB in the case where the number of PRB pairs in the distributed EPDCCH set is greater than number of EREGs one ECCE includes. So two AL specific factors may be used for distributed EPDCCH transmission e.g. 1 1 for phase shifting e.g. similar to alternative two except the number of shifting factors or using two sequences to scramble the DCI e.g. similar to alternative three except using two scrambling sequences . For example one of the two scrambling sequences can use an all zero sequence e.g. sequence A and the other scrambling sequence can use an all one sequence e.g. sequence B . Alternative four can combine and use alternatives two and three. Alternative four can provide complexity reduction optimization for a particular distributed EPDCCH set size. The various alternatives e.g. alternatives 1 2 3 and 4 can also be directly applied to both localized and distributed EPDCCH set regardless of a number of PRB pairs per set and a number of EREGs per ECCE.

In another example the aggregation level ambiguity or the lowest ECCE ambiguity can be resolved using an interleaver after rate matching e.g. alternative five where DCI bits are provide for CRC attachment as illustrated in . The interleaver can be used to interleave against a fading phenomenon. To make the UE unable to decode the EPDCCH correctly under an incorrect aggregation level assumption a bit level interleaver can be inserted between the rate matching block and modulation block as shown in FIG. . Any interleaver may be applicable as long as the interleaving destroys an encoding chain if the UE assumes an incorrect aggregation level in blind decoding. Since the legacy PDCCH can use an interleaver for REG interleaving the same interleaver can be reused for simplicity i.e. a sub block interleaver can be reused . In an example elements at the output of the interleaver can be removed before modulation.

In another example the aggregation level ambiguity or the lowest ECCE ambiguity can be resolved using an interleaver after modulation e.g. QPSK e.g. alternative six as illustrated in . Similar to alternative five a symbol level interleaver can be inserted between the QPSK modulation block and the symbol to RE mapping block as shown in . For example a sub block interleaver can be reused. For instance elements at the output of the interleaver can be removed before RE mapping.

Another example provides a method for blind decoding downlink control information DCI from an enhanced physical downlink control channel EPDCCH as shown in the flow chart in . The method may be executed as instructions on a machine or computer circuitry where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The method includes the operation of receiving the EPDCCH from an evolved Node B eNB at a user equipment UE as in block . The operation of recursively attempting to decode the DCI from enhanced control channel elements ECCE of the EPDCCH from a physical resource block PRB pair using a selected set of enhanced resource element group EREG index mappings for the ECCE until the DCI is successfully decoded wherein each EREG index mapping is configured for a different aggregation level AL follows as in block . The next operation of the method can be correctly decoding the DCI when the EREG index mapping associated with a specified aggregation level is used wherein the specified aggregation level is used to encode the DCI as in block .

Each EREG index map can be used to determine which resource elements RE in a physical resource block PRB pair are associated with each ECCE. For example the REs of a physical resource block PRB pair include a block of complex valued symbols y 0 . . . y M 1 mapped in sequence starting with y 0 to resource elements k l on an associated antenna port when the REs are part of the EREGS assigned for the EPDCCH transmission where Mis a number of modulation symbols to transmit on a physical channel and the mapping to resource elements k l on antenna port p is an increasing order of first an index k and then an index l starting with a first slot and ending with a second slot in a subframe.

In an example each ECCE can be distributed with other ECCEs in frequency or time in the PRB pair or multiple PRB pairs or each EREG can be distributed with other EREGs in frequency or time in the PRB pair or multiple PRB pairs. The operation of correctly decoding the DCI can further include determining the aggregation level and determining a lowest ECCE value.

In another example the method can further include failing to decode the DCI when an assumed aggregation level differs from an encoded aggregation level. A user equipment UE can attempt to decode with a EREG index mapping associated with the assumed aggregation level and the encoded aggregation level can be the aggregation level used by an evolved Node B eNB to encode the DCI for transmission in the EPDCCH. The method can further include attempting to decode the DCI using another EREG index mapping associated with another aggregation level.

Another example provides functionality of computer circuitry of a node operable for mapping resource elements RE to enhanced control channel elements ECCE of an enhanced physical downlink control channel EPDCCH based on an aggregation level AL as shown in the flow chart in . The functionality may be implemented as a method or the functionality may be executed as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The computer circuitry can be configured to determine a number of ECCE used to transmit downlink control information DCI as in block . The computer circuitry can be further configured to determine the aggregation level used to transmit the DCI based on the number of ECCE used to transmit the DCI as in block . The computer circuitry can also be configured to map resource elements RE to enhanced resource element groups EREG of the ECCE assigned to the DCI using an EREG index wherein the EREG index is selected based on a localized EPDCCH transmission scheme or a distributed EPDCCH transmission scheme as in block .

In an example the computer circuitry configured to map the RE can be further configured to map the RE to a physical resource block PRB pair for a localized EPDCCH transmission scheme using a frequency first sequential mapping across the REs occupied by the DCI or map the RE to a plurality of PRB pairs a distributed EPDCCH transmission scheme using a frequency first sequential mapping across the REs occupied by the DCI where one DCI for the distributed EPDCCH transmission scheme is carried using EREGs from the plurality of PRB pairs. In another example the computer circuitry configured to map the RE can be further configured to map the RE to a physical resource block PRB pair for a localized EPDCCH transmission scheme using a time first sequential mapping across the REs occupied by the DCI or map the RE to a plurality of PRB pairs a distributed EPDCCH transmission scheme using a time first sequential mapping across the REs occupied by the DCI where one DCI for the distributed EPDCCH transmission scheme is carried using EREGs from the plurality of PRB pairs.

In a configuration the ECCE can be transmitted in a physical resource block PRB pair where each PRB pair includes four ECCEs or two ECCEs. The REs of a physical resource block PRB pair can include a block of complex valued symbols y 0 . . . y M 1 mapped in sequence starting with y 0 to resource elements k l on an associated antenna port when the REs are part of the EREGS assigned for the EPDCCH transmission where Mis a number of modulation symbols to transmit on a physical channel and the mapping to resource elements k l on antenna port p is an increasing order of first an index k and then an index l starting with a first slot and ending with a second slot in a subframe.

The computer circuitry can be further configured to allocate resource to a physical downlink shared channel PDSCH with the EPDCCH allocate resource to a physical downlink shared channel PDSCH with the EPDCCH and transmit the PDSCH in the resource allocation. The EPDCCH can be a localized EPDCCH or a distributed EPDCCH

The wireless device e.g. UE can include a transceiver and a processor . The wireless device i.e. device can be configured for blind decoding downlink control information DCI from an enhanced physical downlink control channel EPDCCH as described in of .

Referring back to the processor can be configured to Recursively attempt to decode the DCI from enhanced control channel elements ECCE of the EPDCCH from physical resource block PRB region candidates in a PRB set using a selected set of enhanced resource element group EREG index maps for the ECCE until the DCI is successfully decoded and decode the DCI with an EREG index map associated with a same aggregation level used to encode the DCI. Each EREG index map can be configured for a different aggregation level AL .

Each EREG index map can be used to determine which resource elements RE in a physical resource block PRB pair are associated with the ECCE for aggregation level. For example the REs of a physical resource block PRB pair can include a block of complex valued symbols y 0 . . . y M 1 mapped in sequence starting with y 0 to resource elements k l on an associated antenna port when the REs are part of the EREGS assigned for the EPDCCH transmission where Mis a number of modulation symbols to transmit on a physical channel and the mapping to resource elements k l on antenna port p is an increasing order of first an index k and then an index l starting with a first slot and ending with a second slot in a subframe.

In another example the processor can be further configured to fail to decode the DCI when an assumed aggregation level differs from an encoded aggregation level. The processor can attempt to decode with a EREG index map associated with the assumed aggregation level and the encoded aggregation level can be the same aggregation level used by an evolved Node B eNB to encode the DCI for transmission in the EPDCCH.

The transceiver can be configured to receive the EPDCCH from a node. The node can include a base station BS a Node B NB an evolved Node B eNB a baseband unit BBU a remote radio head RRH a remote radio equipment RRE a remote radio unit RRU or a central processing module CPM .

In another configuration transceiver can be configured to receive a physical downlink shared channel PDSCH with the EPDCCH in a resource allocation RA . The RA is a RA type 0 RA type 1 or a RA type 2 defined in a Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE standard Release 11.

In another example the same aggregation level is used to encode the DCI in 1 2 4 8 16 or 32 ECCE. In another configuration the processor configured to decode the DCI can be further configured to resolve an aggregation level ambiguity and resolve a lowest ECCE ambiguity.

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes compact disc read only memory CD ROMs hard drives non transitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. Circuitry can include hardware firmware program code executable code computer instructions and or software. A non transitory computer readable storage medium can be a computer readable storage medium that does not include signal. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements may be a random access memory RAM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM flash drive optical drive magnetic hard drive solid state drive or other medium for storing electronic data. The node and wireless device may also include a transceiver module i.e. transceiver a counter module i.e. counter a processing module i.e. processor and or a clock module i.e. clock or timer module i.e. timer . One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom very large scale integration VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Reference throughout this specification to an example or exemplary means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in an example or the word exemplary in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and example of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as defacto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of layouts distances network examples etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components layouts etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

