---

title: Internet protocol security camera connected light bulb/system
abstract: The present invention concerns an apparatus comprising a shade, a camera sensor and a base. The camera sensor may be configured to capture video data of a surrounding environment of the apparatus. The base may be configured to enclose a circuit. The circuit may be configured to provide (i) an electrical connection to (a) the camera sensor and (b) components of the circuit, (ii) a connection between a power source and an external device, and (iii) control signals for activation of (a) the external device and (b) the components of the circuit. The circuit comprises an antenna module configured to connect and send data to a network through a wireless connection. The video data is sent as the data through the wireless connection. The camera sensor is positioned in a bottom part of the base that extends below the shade.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09654678&OS=09654678&RS=09654678
owner: Kuna Systems Corporation
number: 09654678
owner_city: Burlingame
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150921
---
This application relates to U.S. Ser. No. 14 164 540 filed Jan. 27 2014 which relates to U.S. Ser. No. 13 921 597 filed Jun. 19 2013 which relates to i U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 790 865 filed Mar. 15 2013 ii U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 783 474 filed Mar. 14 2013 and iii U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 684 310 filed Aug. 17 2012. U.S. Ser. No. 14 164 540 filed Jan. 27 2014 also relates to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 923 931 filed Jan. 6 2014. This application also relates to U.S. Ser. No. 14 205 946 filed Mar. 12 2014 which relates to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 783 565 filed Mar. 14 2013. This application also relates to U.S. Ser. No. 14 519 642 filed Oct. 21 2014 which relates to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 902 943 filed Nov. 12 2013. This application also relates to U.S. Ser. No. 14 504 632 filed Oct. 2 2014. This application also relates to U.S. application Ser. No. 14 664 275 filed Mar. 20 2015. This application also relates to U.S. Provisional Application No. 62 166 968 filed May 27 2015. This application also relates to U.S. Provisional Application No. 62 197 322 filed Jul. 27 2015. Each of the mentioned applications are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The present invention relates to security cameras generally and more particularly to a method and or apparatus for implementing an Internet Protocol security camera connected light bulb system.

Conventional light bulbs are passive devices with at most simple sensors light or motion to help turn the light bulb on or off. Basic Wi Fi connected light bulbs allow users to control a light bulb from Wi Fi connected devices. Such systems do not have signals from the light bulb to the users to help the users decide how to control the light bulb. Hence the control functions would be limited to simple algorithms such as time based on off and random on off timings.

Conventional security cameras need to access an electrical outlet for power. Such systems do not provide any solution if there is no electrical outlet. Often times especially in an outdoor installation electrical outlets are not available. Adding a new electrical outlet for a residential home or a small business can cost more in time and money than an average cost of security camera hardware.

Disadvantages with conventional systems are significant. A simple light bulb with one way communication cannot be intelligent. Another disadvantage of conventional security cameras is that they do not provide a solution when there is no power outlet.

It would be desirable to implement an IP Internet protocol security camera connected light bulb system to provide an intelligent light bulb system with two way communication of sound and or images that allow imaginative ways of controlling lighting with security features.

The present invention concerns an apparatus comprising a shade a camera sensor and a base. The camera sensor may be configured to capture video data of a surrounding environment of the apparatus. The base may be configured to enclose a circuit. The circuit may be configured to provide i an electrical connection to a the camera sensor and b components of the circuit ii a connection between a power source and an external device and iii control signals for activation of a the external device and b the components of the circuit. The circuit comprises an antenna module configured to connect and send data to a network through a wireless connection. The video data is sent as the data through the wireless connection. The camera sensor is positioned in a bottom part of the base that extends below the shade.

The objects features and advantages of the present invention include providing a security camera that may i receive power from a socket of an outdoor light ii provide a wireless connection to a computer network iii be cost effective to implement and or iv provide intelligent control to a light bulb system.

Referring to a block diagram of a system is shown in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. The system generally comprises a camera module and sensor with or without a lens a bulb a lens module an optional battery since DC power is provided from the light bulb a number of detachable power and or control wires a bendable and rigid pipe to provide structural support of and a light bulb socket for all popular bases an antenna a Wi Fi adapter router a phone tablet PC or TV display interface and a cloud storage and or computation analytic of images . The cloud storage may be the Internet a local area network a Network Attached Storage NAS device etc.

The connection between the lens sensor and the camera may be implemented as a number of wires a standard interface for lens module to cell phone circuitry that may run at high bandwidth and usually very short distances . The wires may be implemented in the same chassis as the camera . A speaker and or microphone may be included in the lens . The camera and or lens may be outside of a light shade if the shade is opaque.

The camera module may include a complete camera e.g. without battery and display but with the video circuitry the antenna a speaker and or a microphone. The camera may minimize manufacturing costs by maximizing the amount of circuitry that fits in the camera module . The camera may fit in several different mounting configurations e.g. with and without light bulb integration .

A number of configurations may be implemented e.g. the circuit being mounted inside the light bulb and or outside the light bulb . In one example the camera circuit may be mounted inside the light bulb as a small circuit board. Circuitry inside the light bulb may be used to control the intensity and or color of the bulb . The camera circuit may process either still pictures or video or sound captured from the lens .

The antenna may be designed to fit inside the camera module . The antenna may be implemented as a Wi Fi antenna. In one example a GoPro Wi Fi backpack may be implemented which is normally about 2 inches wide. In one example the Wi Fi frequency may be 2.5 GHz with wavelength of around 31 mm e.g. 1.2 inches . A standard inexpensive omni directional antenna may be as simple as a wire of a 1.2 inch length and that may fit inside a small e.g. a 1.5 inch diameter camera module . To optimize the antenna with higher gain a cable e.g. more than 3 inches may be included as the antenna .

The control signals from the camera to the light bulb may include ON OFF intensity and or color control. In one example an array of LED lights may be implemented to provide changes in intensity and or color. An array may be used to generate specific colors e.g. white . Other colors may be implemented to meet the design criteria of a particular implementation.

In an example is shown where the camera and the light bulb are controlled by users without going through the cloud . A smartphone or tablet application may control the camera and or the light bulb via Wi Fi bluetooth etc. In one example a voice command or hand clapping may be used to control the camera and or the light bulb although not likely for outdoor . In another example a separate remote control may be implemented e.g. Wi Fi bluetooth IR etc. .

The Wi Fi antenna may be included inside the camera similar to other Wi Fi connected devices. A very small Wi Fi connected HD camera module e.g. with a 1.5 inch diameter and 0.75 inch thickness may attach to many different sockets mounts for different uses and or models. The light fixture is just one of several mounts.

In one example a cable see may range from zero length stealth likely in front of the light bulb to avoid glare to as much as 12 inches or more for positioning and or aiming of the lens . The cable may provide power ground and a control signal to turn the light bulb on off and change intensity and or color. The lens and or the camera may include all or part of the electronics needed. The particular camera features implemented in the lens and or the camera module may be varied to meet the design criteria of a particular implementation. The cable should be rigid and or bendable.

In one example the socket may have 5 or more cable sockets e.g. 4 sides and 1 at the front . The cable may be removable from the bulb and or the camera . The cable may be removable such that different lengths may be substituted to meet the design criteria of a particular implementation.

The camera may be configured to take control of one or more of a number of light bulbs connected to a common power switch on the wall. A typical front door of a house usually has one or two light fixtures. Indoor lights often have multiple light bulbs controlled by one wall switch especially ceiling lights. To control the other light bulbs without a camera Wi Fi connected light bulbs may be implemented. The wall switch controlling the receptacle is normally left on to power the electronics in the bulbs and or the camera .

The receptacle may be varied to meet the design criteria of a particular implementation. The receptacle may be designed to cover a variety of popular light bulb configurations with different bases e.g. an A19 is the most popular . The system may operate with LED bulbs and or Compact Florescent bulbs and or other types of bulbs e.g. HID etc. . The system may operate with a high quality speaker e.g. a 1.5 inch diameter and or a microphone module that may attach to or be integrated to the back of the camera .

The system may be used to control an advanced light bulb e.g. LED CFL etc. by a miniature security camera circuit . The control functions may be automated by the signals received by the camera or may be controlled manually by users with access to the images and or sounds from the camera . A variety of Internet connected devices such smart phones may be used to control the system . The system may provide an immediate benefit of providing electrical power to the camera through the existing light fixture where the light bulb would fit. The additional benefits of controlling a light bulb with images and or sound from the camera may become important as users learn about the possibilities.

The system may solve several problems by integrating an advanced light bulb LED CFC etc. with an advanced and or miniature security camera . One problem solved is to provide true intelligence to a light bulb when approached by a person and or an animal. The light fixture e.g. in a residential home is usually placed where strangers and or animals will likely visit. When a stranger and or an animal is detected by the security camera an alert may be sent to the home owner. The home owner may instruct the light bulb to operate in a friendly manner e.g. low intensity and or rhythmic or in a hostile manner e.g. high intensity and or dissonant . In addition a microphone and or speaker of the security camera may allow a home owner to enhance the communication through voice and or sound. Another problem that the system may solve is that the light fixture can provide power to the security camera through the integrated light bulb. In outdoor residential environment there is usually no power outlet and or home owners generally do not like to run external power cords over the house walls.

In one example all of the signals from a Wi Fi connected light bulb and or an Internet controlled security camera may be controlled by a PC or a web service in the cloud or a web based or portable computing device. For example a PC software program may be used to control both the light bulb and or the security camera . In one example such PC software may include a facial recognition module. Such a facial recognition module may be used to identify and or sort out friendly people and or animals from unfriendly people and or animals. Friendly people may trigger certain sounds while unfriendly people may trigger other sounds. In one example an RFID detector module may be included on the camera module . Such an RFID detector module may identify whether a particular person is carrying an RFID transmitter that is identifiable by the camera . In such a case an identified person may be presented with familiar lighting sounds. An unidentified person may receive unfriendly sounds e.g. an alarm etc. .

In one example the camera module may include storage for pre recorded voice messages and or music for playback that may depend on the particular image sound voice input received. For example unwanted animals e.g. raccoon gofer herons etc. may be detected and may be scared away by human voice or other predator voice. Other animals like hummingbirds and or squirrels may be attracted by mating sounds. Another example may be a voice instruction for delivery personnel at front doors. In one example such pre recorded messages may be updated from the cloud storage via internet connection. Such images sounds input may be processed and or matched with images in the cloud service and or analysis may generate appropriate voice messages or music for playback. The latency in response must be minimized and managed. Such messages may be real time live from the user watching the image through internet connection. Such voice music output may be replaced or combined by the algorithm instruction to control the LED array intensity and or color of the same light fixture.

The system with the camera module may support conventional landscaping lighting fixtures e.g. 12 volt DC light bulbs . The circuitry may be simpler if dedicated to a landscaping low voltage DC lighting fixture rather than to a traditional AC voltage. Alternatively the circuitry may be made to support both traditional AC voltage 120 volt and or low voltage DC such as 12 volt.

In outdoor settings when there is no wireless internet network the system may use the camera to control a light bulb but may work with ad hoc Wi Fi network supported by the camera and or a hand held device such as a smartphone tablet etc. A sample usage model is to install an IP security camera with light bulb control in a place where there is no wireless internet network and if needed also install Wi Fi controlled light bulbs that are connected to the same power switch. A user may then control the camera and the light bulbs with a hand held device via ad hoc Wi Fi or bluetooth wireless connection. The camera with instruction from a user may then proceed to control the light bulb for visitors and or visiting animals. An image captured by the camera may be downloaded directly to a hand held device which may later upload to the cloud storage . Alternatively removable storage in the camera e.g. memory cards may be removed and inserted into a computer to upload the recorded content to the cloud storage .

The system may provide two way communication circuitry in a light bulb and or power and or signals from a light bulb to a miniaturized security camera. Application software may provide intelligence to a light bulb. Innovative placements of the camera with respect to a high intensity light bulb in a closed environment may be used to avoid glare and or provide optimal lighting to the camera .

The system may provide value in the home security camera market. About half of the DIY Do It Yourself security camera market does not have an easy way to connect to a power outlet. The system may save homeowners easily 200 in value by simplifying the installation process. The DIY security camera market is about 3 million units per year in the US and is predicted to grow to about 12 million units per year by 2016. With the system about half of such units can save 200 per unit in installation cost which translates to about 300 M in 2012 and 1.2 B in 2016.

The system may also provide intelligence e.g. communication etc. in the light bulb . The system may allow users to communicate to strangers and or animals in a creative way by combining lighting and or sound with two way signals.

Various electronics and or capabilities may be included in the light fixture adapter instead of in the light bulb . The advantage of such an installation is the compatibility with all types of light bulbs e.g. LED light bulbs etc. . The adapter may provide a DC voltage e.g. 5 volts for the camera and or b wireless communication e.g. Wi Fi RF etc. and or c dimmer control circuitry.

The camera may integrate various communication channels in hardware and or software to provide various base station capabilities of a security monitoring system. For example Wi Fi communication to Wi Fi router may enable communication with the Internet. In another example an ad hoc Wi Fi communication with similar cameras dr monitoring devices may be implemented. RF transceivers e.g. FM channels around 315 MHz 433 MHz etc. may be implemented to communicate with other monitoring devices such as smoke detectors water sensors thermostats carbon monoxide detectors PIR motion detectors key pads sirens etc. Cellular circuitry may be used to communicate with external cell towers. The cellular circuitry may enable communication with central security monitoring services and or the Internet as well as a backup channel if the Wi Fi communication fails. A landline telephone communication channel may be implemented. A landline may enable low cost and or redundant communication with a central security monitoring service.

Referring to an example of the system in a distributed configuration is shown. The lens sensor module the processor module and or audio elements may be separated or distributed to make the system smaller and or more streamlined. The sensor module and or the processor module may be integrated via a high speed connection such as a micro coaxial cable. The audio component s may be integrated via wireless communication e.g. RF etc. . In one example the processor module may be powered through a connector that may be plugged into a receptacle . In one example the connector and or the receptacle may be implemented as Universal Serial Bus USB connectors. However other types of general purpose connectors may be implemented.

The system may augment vision with one or more sensors e.g. IR PIR sonar audio detection doorbell sound and or doorbell signal to improve the detection of a person. The sensors may be placed in the housing of the processor module along with a speaker . Other modules may be placed nearby. The performance of the system may be improved by placing the sensors in positions with better angles and or by implementing more of the sensors to provide inputs to the processor module .

The camera processor module may include a bracket to attach to a light fixture via a mounting screw connecting the system to the wall mounting fixture. A threaded neck of a security light may be connected to the wall mounting fixture . A removable nut at the top of a light fixture may be implemented where the camera module is connected to the light bulb for power and or control.

The system may control the activation of security deterrence by implementing i harsh flashing of the light bulb ii a loud siren iii pepper spray iv tear gas or v other deterring actions and or sounds. In one example an automatic announcement may be implemented to deter tampering and or theft of the system by detecting close proximity of a person e.g. a predetermined range such as 2 feet etc. . For example a sample announcement such as Do not tamper with this camera. Your pictures have been stored and may be uploaded to the appropriate authority may be implemented.

In one example an automatic announcement when a visitor is detected by the system may be made. The announcement may provide time for the homeowner and or trusted neighbors friends to answer a phone call placed by the system . An example of such an announcement may be Hi how can we help you We are home but not expecting a visitor at this time. 

In one example the gooseneck camera may be mounted to one of the mounting screws and or of the light fixture . Such wall mounting screws are normally standard in most fixtures in the United States. The sensor module may be mounted in the front. The sensor module may be as small as 0.5 inches in diameter for HD video. For example an implementation such as an endoscopy inspection camera may be used.

The processor module may be located at the mounting end of a housing with the mounting screws and or by using a micro coax cable. In one example the processor module may be stored together with the sensor module in the front in a large housing e.g. 1.5 inch diameter etc. . The interconnect to the light bulb may be another wire that runs underneath the cap of the light fixture . Another configuration is to attach the processor module at the back of the light fixture . If the processor is mounted inside the light fixture the need to separate out a Wi Fi antenna and or keep the antenna outside to avoid shielding problems from the light fixture may be minimized.

In one example a selection of background sounds made by a strong human voice may be mixed in with the voice of the homeowner or trusted neighbors friends when answering the phone call placed by the camera. Such background voices and or noises may provide a deterring effect by appearing to a potential intruder that several people are home.

Referring to the system is shown with the lens sensor processor integrated into the light fixture during manufacturing of the light fixture. shows two different ways to integrate the apparatus into a light fixture. The first implementation integrates into the light fixture wall mount base. The second implementation integrates inside the light fixture e.g. on the top or somewhere in the bottom part of the light fixture . The lens sensor module generally needs some way to pass signals from the enclosure which may be done with the telescoping gooseneck connection that may support high speed interconnect to the control module . A Wi Fi antenna may also be placed outside the enclosure for optimal range of communication. In addition the audio speaker and or microphone may be integrated in the light fixture or as a separate module.

An industrial design of the camera module may be improved using such an integration process. For example the speaker and or a microphone may be separated as an option since the light fixture is often mounted too high for two way intercom communication. In one example two way voice communication may be connected to the processor module through wireless communication such as RF signals. Such two way voice intercom may be placed close to a doorbell.

The apparatus may include the camera control module the camera lens sensor and an audio speaker microphone intercom. The camera control module may be located in a wall mounted base . In an alternate embodiment the control module may be located in the roof of a building . The camera lens sensor module may be connected to the control module with a telescopic gooseneck connector typically through a high speed interconnect. The audio speaker microphone intercom may be integrated into a light fixture or may be implemented as a separate intercom module with the wireless communication. The system also includes securing brackets and .

Referring to a DC power and control implementation is shown. shows an adapter that shows one end implemented as a standard A19 screw thread for the standard E26 E27 base socket. The other end is a smaller base like E10 or E5. The adapter provides a place to mount the electronics DC power source and or wireless communication interface. The adapter may be implemented in a compact fashion. The adapter may allow the apparatus to be used with standard light bulbs and to be implemented at a lower cost. The adapter may support E5 to E27 as well as new bases e.g. a GU24 base etc. .

A screw end may be compatible with an A19 type standard bulb fixture. A base may be implemented to accept a smaller more modern type of bulb such as an E26 E27 or an E10 or E5 type fixture. A cavity may be implemented to store the electronics module a DC low voltage power supply and or a wireless communications module etc.

The audio signal may be wirelessly transmitted to a separate audio intercom. In one example a speaker and or a microphone may be optionally powered by a battery. Such a configuration may be desirable to allow optimal placement of an audio communication and video recording and sensing.

Referring to an example mounting of the apparatus in an outdoor light is shown. A connection piece is shown. The connection piece may be implemented in one example as an adhesive. In another example the connection piece may be a hook and loop fastener.

Referring to a wireless speaker and microphone implementation is shown. A module may wirelessly connect to the module . By implementing a wireless module for the intercom additional placement flexibility may result. shows a desirable configuration to allow optimal placements of audio communication and video recording sensing. The example in shows an indoor video camera configured to look outside of a house through a window e.g. through the lens sensor and or wirelessly communicate with a separate outdoor audio intercom powered by batteries. Such an embodiment shows an indoor video and outdoor audio intercom.

Referring to an alternate installation is shown. A light fixture may screw or clamp down the ties from the camera apparatus by using simple adhesives for easy mounting. For example the camera module may include a glue tape e.g. 3M Scotch etc. to attach the light fixture and or the system to a wall. A connection to the light bulb or the adapter may be used for power and or control. The system may be used to control the light bulb in order to eliminate the need for an independent IR light source in the camera during night time by i automatically turning on or increasing light intensity of the light bulb when there is insufficient lighting for the camera module to perform and or ii having an IR light source in the light bulb of the light fixture .

The light fixture may screw into a clamp down bracket. A thin tie down may be used to secure a camera. In one example a velcro like tie down may be used. Such an implementation is useful when an LED light is integrated into the light fixture and there will be no availability for a replacement of the bulb . In addition to the light bulb and or the light fixture in one example a separate two way intercom speaker and microphone communicating to the video camera via wireless communication such as RF or Wi Fi may be implemented. Such an implementation may be useful in crime prevention such as burglaries. The system may be mounted high up under the eaves or with the light fixture whereas the two way intercom module may be located at head level and or near a doorbell.

Referring to a side mount installation is shown. In a flush mounted light fixture one of the fixture mounting screws may be used to anchor a bracket that may be used to connect the gooseneck camera too.

Referring to a flood light type installation is shown. In a spotlight installation most spotlights have a nut that may be used to position a bracket . The bracket may allow positioning of the camera.

Referring to an installation of a universal fixture base is shown. A configuration with a wall mounted base similar to the configuration described in is shown in . The configuration may contain the lens sensor at the top of a light fixture . The configuration may have a decorative attachment a housing and an attachment . The attachment and or may provide a physical mount for the light fixture . The attachment may connect the housing to the light fixture . The attachment may provide a channel to hold electrical wires used to power the configuration . The light fixture and the housing are shown generally above a base line . A configuration is shown in . The configuration may implement a universal base. The configuration adds a housing extension . The housing extension may extend the housing below the base line . The housing extension may contain a lens sub module . The module may contain a lens sensor . The configuration may provide an improved viewing angle for the lens sensor . For example when compared with the sensor the configuration may eliminate the cable shown in . For example a shorter ribbon cable may be used. The sensor and the ribbon cable may be protected from intruders by being enclosed in the housing extension and or the attachment .

Referring to a modular design of a universal fixture base configuration is shown. A modular universal base may be connected to the housing and may be connected or disconnected without removing the light fixture and or the housing from a wall. The modular universal base may contain the lens sub module and a processor sub module to be described in more detail in connection with . The lens sub module is shown attached to the modular universal base . However the sub module may be separately mounted to allow different viewing angles as desired by the user. The processor sub module may provide a plug to enable the processor sub module to control the light bulb shown in . The plug is shown as a 3 pronged plug that may provide a switched 120V power source to the light fixture . Other plug variations may be implemented to meet the design criteria of a particular implementation.

Referring to a processor sub module connected to a lens sub module is shown. The processor sub module and the lens sub module may be connected with a cable . Separating the processor sub module and the lens sub module may allow the modules to easily attach to various light fixture styles. The processor sub module may fit inside the housing the housing extension and or the modular universal base and connect to the light fixture and or housing with the plug . The processor sub module may be implemented as a flexible plate and or may have speakers a microphone an antenna and or a USB and or other connector for a PC connection and or Wi Fi setup. The processor sub module may provide a connection for a control signal to the light bulb shown in . The lens sub module may be smaller than a common Heath Zenith PIR sub modules used in many light fixtures. However the particular size of the lens sub module may be varied to meet the design criteria of a particular implementation. The lens sub module may be pivotable to provide a desired viewing angle.

Referring to a detailed illustration of the processor sub module is shown. The processor sub module generally comprises a block or circuit a block or circuit a block or circuit a block or circuit a block or circuit a block or circuit a block or circuit a block or circuit and blocks or circuits . The circuit may be implemented as a processor. The processor may process input signals and or generate various control signals. The circuit may be implemented as a memory. The circuit may be implemented as a speaker. The circuit may be implemented as a microphone. The circuit may be implemented as a Wi Fi antenna. The circuit may be implemented as a power adapter. The circuit may be implemented as a connection port. The circuit may be implemented as a sensor I O block. The sensor I O block may include a number of sensor modules 

The memory may store images audio and or other data. Data stored in the memory may be compared to various signals from the sensor modules . In one example the data stored in the memory may be a password. The processor may compare the password with signals from the sensor modules . The comparison may determine which control signals to generate.

The speaker may generate audio signals. The speaker may be implemented as one or more speakers. In one embodiment the speaker may be configured to generate a moderate volume sound e.g. 75 dB at a range of 1 meter . However the particular volume generated may be varied to meet the design criteria of a particular implementation.

In another embodiment the processor sub module may be configured to stream audio signals from a mobile device and or other device within range of the processor sub module . The Wi Fi antenna may be configured to communicate with mobile devices and or other devices to send and or receive audio signals. The connection port may be configured to communicate with various devices to send and or receive audio signals. The audio signals may be stored in the memory . In one example the speaker may generate audio signals to attract outdoor wildlife and or chase away undesired wildlife. The lens sub module may capture images of the wildlife. Images may be stored in the memory . An alert may be sent to the user via the Wi Fi antenna the connection port and or other methods. In various embodiments the speaker may or may not be integrated on the board of the processor sub module . For example the speaker may be separated from the processor sub module to be described in more detail in connection with .

The microphone may receive audio signals. Audio signals detected by the microphone may be used by the processor sub module to generate various control signals. In one example audio signals generated by a visitor may be received by the microphone to generate a control signal used to control the light bulb and or control a door e.g. opening closing and or locking a door . Audio signals detected by the microphone may be used as an audio password. For example voice recognition may be used to generate a password. The audio password may be needed to allow the processor sub module to generate various control signals.

The Wi Fi antenna on the processor sub module may receive and or transmit data signals. The Wi Fi antenna may register electromagnetic signals acoustic signals and or other signals. The Wi Fi antenna may provide control signals to turn on the light bulb create sound from one or more speakers send alerts to users and or send other wireless signals.

The power adapter may receive electrical power from the light bulb and or from a wall base of the light fixture box . Electrical power from the light bulb may be presented to the processor sub module by a connection to the plug . The power adapter may convert the electrical power. The converted electrical power may provide a power supply to the various components attached to the processor sub module such as the lens sub module and the sensors . In one example the power adapter may be implemented as a 5V power adapter.

The connection port may provide a physical connection to various devices. The connection port may be configured to communicate with various devices. In one example the connection port may be a Universal Serial Bus USB port. However the particular type of port may be varied to meet the design criteria of a particular implementation. The connection port may be configured to connect to an external device such as a computer and or mobile device. The configuration port may be configured to allow the user to have access to a Wi Fi setup for the Wi Fi antenna store data e.g. audio files in the memory configure the sensor modules and or update firmware. The firmware may be stored on the memory . The firmware may store instructions that when executed by the processor implement one or more steps and or control actions.

The sensor modules may be implemented as environmental sensors. The sensor module may be an electromagnetic field sensor. The sensor module may be an acoustic field sensor. The sensor module may be a voice recognition sensor. The sensor module may be a facial recognition sensor. The sensor module may be a gesture sensor. The sensor module may be a weather sensor. The sensor I O block may include other sensors such as a smart IP camera and or a PIR motion detector to detect people and or animals. The particular number and type of sensor modules may be varied to meet the design criteria of a particular implementation. The sensor modules may be interchangeable. One or more of the sensor modules or a combination of the sensors modules may be implemented internally as part of the processor sub module e.g. within a housing or alternatively may be implemented externally e.g. as a separate sensing device coupled to the processor sub module . Input received by the sensor modules may be interpreted by the processor . For example input received by the sensor modules may be used to generate control signals. In one example a control signal may be sent to the power adapter to control the light bulb . The control signals may also control the intensity color and or frequency of the light bulb .

In one example the electromagnetic field sensor may detect electromagnetic fields generated by appliances other electronics and or other sources of electromagnetic fields within the range of the processor sub module . Disturbances in the electromagnetic field may be used by the processor to detect potential visitors and or other objects.

In one example the acoustic field sensor may detect acoustic fields generated within the range of the processor sub module . Such disturbances in the acoustic field may be used to detect potential visitors and or other objects.

In one example the voice recognition sensor may be configured to recognize audio signals such as voices. The microphone may present audio signals to the voice recognition sensor . Signals detected by the voice recognition sensor may be used by the processor sub module to generate various control signals. In one example audio signals and or a command voice may be needed e.g. a password to allow the processor sub module to generate various control signals.

In one example the facial recognition sensor may be configured to recognize the facial and or other features of a person and or of other objects. Signals detected by the facial recognition sensor may be used by the processor sub module to generate various control signals. In one example facial recognition and or recognition of other features of a person and or other object may be needed to allow the processor sub module to generate various control signals.

In one example the gesture sensor may be configured to recognize gestures and or movement of a person and or other object. Signals detected by the gesture sensor may be used by the processor sub module to generate various control signals. In one example a particular gesture and or combination of movements may be needed to allow the processor sub module to generate various control signals.

In one example the weather sensor may be configured to detect various weather variables such as temperature humidity and or atmospheric pressure. The weather sensor may be comprised of a photodiode. The photodiode may be configured to determine daytime nighttime and or the amount of light in the environment. Signals detected by the weather sensor may be used by the processor sub module to generate various control signals. In one example notifications about the weather may be sent to the user. In another example the amount of light in the environment may be used to control curtains and or blinds to prevent and or allow a particular amount of light through a window. In another example light intensity of the light bulb may be increased as light in the environment decreases. An increase in light intensity of the light bulb may ensure there is sufficient light for the lens sub module and or other sensor modules to properly function. Controlling light intensity of the light bulb may eliminate the need for an IR light source in a camera during nighttime operation. The IR light source may be implemented in the light bulb .

The lens sub module is shown connected to the processor sub module with the cable . In various implementations the lens sub module may be integrated on the processor sub module as part of the sensor I O block . The lens sub module may be used to detect potential visitors and or other objects. Signals detected by the lens sub module may be used by the processor sub module to generate various control signals. In one example the lens sub module may detect a visitor. A control signal may be generated to control the light bulb and or control a door. In another example the lens sub module may detect an unwanted visitor. A control signal may be generated to prohibit the unwanted visitor from entering the premises alert the homeowner and or contact proper authorities. The lens sub module may work in combination with various sensor modules such as the facial recognition sensor and or the gesture sensor

Referring to a processor sub module and lens sub module connected to a light fixture is shown. The lens sub module may be mounted on the housing . The processor sub module shown in may be mounted in the housing . In one example the processor sub module may include the speaker . The processor sub module may be connected to the light bulb with a cable . In the example shown the cable is shown exposed. However the cable may be contained within the attachment shown in . The processor sub module may get power from the light bulb and or may provide a control signal to the light bulb . The cable may connect to the plug shown in on the processor sub module .

Referring to an example of an external speaker separated from the processor sub module is shown. The processor sub module is shown inside the housing . The external speaker is shown moved up the housing facing forward. Separating the speaker shown in from the processor sub module allows the external speaker to be positioned as desired by the user.

Referring to an exemplary embodiment is shown. The exemplary embodiment may comprise the light shade and the base . The base may comprise the lens module a microphone grille an IR sensor lens indicator LEDs adjustment grips and a speaker grille . The lens module may comprise the lens and the lens cover .

The exemplary embodiment may further optionally comprise the light bulb . The light bulb may be replaceable. The light bulb may be implemented using an incandescent light bulb a compact fluorescent lamp CFL bulb and or an LED bulb. The type and or style of the light bulb may be varied according to the design criteria of a particular implementation.

The exemplary embodiment may be implemented as a light fixture. The light fixture may be configured to mount to a wall and or ceiling mount. The light fixture may be configured to connect to existing electrical wiring. For example the light fixture may be mounted to an electrical box e.g. a junction box that provides wiring to the electrical system of a premises.

The light shade may be implemented in various styles. The color shape and or material of the light shade may be varied according to the design criteria of a particular implementation. Generally the light shade may extend downwards to a height above the lens module . For example the light shade may be configured to not block and or obstruct a view from the lens .

The base may be implemented in various styles. The color shape and or material of the base may be varied according to the design criteria of a particular implementation. Generally the color shape and or material of the base may be selected to match or partially match the color shape and or material of the light shade . For example the base may be implemented as a plastic housing. The plastic material used for the base may allow for signal propagation e.g. Wi Fi signals Bluetooth signals etc. . The base may be implemented having various holes e.g. portal holes to provide heat ventilation and or audio enhancement. The base may be configured as a housing for e.g. to enclose one or more components of the light fixture . For example internal components of the light fixture may be fully enclosed within the base . In another example one or more components of the light fixture may be positioned on and or in or partially on and or in the base .

The lens module may be positioned on and or in the base . The lens module may be positioned below a level of the light shade . The lens module may be implemented as a spherical and or an orb shape. The sphere shape of the lens module may allow the lens module to rotate in the base . Rotating the lens module may allow the lens module to be directed at various angles to capture video data of the surrounding environment of the light fixture . In some embodiments the lens module may be manually rotated e.g. rotated by a user . In some embodiments the lens module may be configured to rotate automatically e.g. controlled by the processor . For example the lens module may be configured to track various types of objects and or detected movements.

The lens module may be implemented using a heat sinking material. In one example the lens module may be comprised of aluminum. The material used to implement the lens module may be varied according to the design criteria of a particular implementation. For example the material used may allow the lens module to be waterproof provide heat dissipation and or provide glare protection.

The lens module may be configured to capture video data. For example the lens module implement a 720P HD video camera. The video data may be high resolution video frames and or audio data. The quality of the video data may be varied according to the design criteria of a particular implementation. Generally the quality of the video data is enough to support object detection e.g. facial recognition motion detection object identification tagging etc. .

The lens may be configured to receive and or focus light from the surrounding environment. The light received and or focused by the lens may be provided to the camera module . The lens cover may be configured to cover a top portion of the lens and or lens module . The lens cover may be configured to reduce an amount of glare caused by the light bulb .

The microphone grille may be positioned on a lower or bottom portion of the base . The microphone grille may be implemented as holes on the base . For example the microphone grille may comprise three holes. The holes of the microphone grille may allow the microphone to receive audio data from the surrounding environment. The holes of the microphone grille may provide ventilation for heat management. The positioning of the microphone grille on the bottom portion of the base as shown may be preferred when the light fixture is located above an expected source of audio e.g. above visitors at a front door . The location of the microphone grille may be varied according to the design criteria of a particular implementation.

The IR sensor lens may be used to detect motion. For example one of the sensor modules of the sensor I O block may be the IR or PIR sensor e.g. . The IR sensor lens may be used to facilitate detection by the IR sensor . In some embodiments information from the IR sensor may be used to activate the lens module e.g. begin recording . In some embodiments the IR sensor may provide additional information to the lens module to detect visitors. The sensitivity of the IR sensor may be adjustable. For example an interface may be provided to the user e.g. a program a web based front end interface a mobile application etc. to adjust the sensitivity of the lens module and or the IR sensor

The indicator LEDs may be used to provide basic information corresponding to an operating status of the light fixture . For example the indicator LEDs may be configured to emit one or more colors. In one example the indicator LEDs may emit one color e.g. blue when the light fixture is in normal operation. In another example the indicator LEDs may emit another color e.g. red when no wireless e.g. Wi Fi Bluetooth etc. signal can be detected. In some embodiments the indicator LEDs may be activated e.g. emit light when the light fixture is in operation. In some embodiments the indicator LEDs may be deactivated when the light fixture is in operation e.g. a stealth mode of operation .

The adjustment grips may be configured to adjust a positioning of the lens module . For example the adjustment grips may allow the user to manually move the lens module . In some embodiments the adjustment grips may be configured to lock the lens module . For example rotating the adjustment grips clockwise may lock the lens module in place e.g. prevent the lens module from rotating . In another example rotating the adjustment grips counterclockwise may unlock the lens module and allow the user to manually aim the lens module .

The speaker grille may be positioned above the lens module on the base . The speaker grille may be implemented as holes on the base . The holes of the speaker grille may allow the speaker or the speaker to emit audio data to the surrounding environment. For example the speaker may be implemented as a 45 mm music quality speaker. The location of the speaker grille may be varied according to the design criteria of a particular implementation.

Referring to a front view of the light fixture is shown. The light shade is not shown for clarity. In the front view of the light fixture the lens module the lens the IR sensor the lens cover the indicator LEDs the adjustment grips and the speaker grille are shown on a bottom portion of the base . A top portion of the base may comprise the light shade mounts and the light fixture mounts 

The light shade mounts may be configured to provide support for the light shade . The light shade mounts may provide a mounting point for the light shade . In some embodiments the light shade mounts may be configured to allow the light shade to be removed from the base e.g. allow different styles of light shades to be swapped in and out . In some embodiments the light shade mounts may be configured to be fixed to the base e.g. riveted to prevent removal of the light shade and or provide better support. One or more of the light shade mounts may provide a channel e.g. an opening for connecting wires from a rear side of the base to the light bulb .

The light fixture mounts may be configured to provide support for the light fixture . The light fixture mounts may be openings to attach the base to a wall via mounting screws. The mounting screws may extend from the wall and through the light fixture mounts . The light fixture mounts may be covered. For example the light fixture mounts may be covered using decorative caps.

Referring to a side view of the light fixture is shown. The light shade is not shown for clarity. In the side view the lens module is shown protruding and or extending from the base . For example half of the lens module may be inside the base and half of the lens module may be exposed. Implementing the lens module to extend from the base may allow the lens module to have a larger range of motion to aim the lens .

Referring to a rear view of the light fixture is shown. The light shade is not shown for clarity. A back side of the top portion of the base is shown exposed e.g. has no cover . A back side of the bottom portion of the base is shown covered. The bottom portion may be used to fully or partially enclose components of the light fixture within the base . The cover of the bottom portion of the base may be held in place with fasteners e.g. screws rivets clips etc. .

A cable is shown feeding into the bottom portion of the base from the top portion of the base . The cable may comprise a number of wires e.g. a hot wire a neutral return wire and or a control wire . Feeding the cable from the top portion may allow the cable to tuck into the open e.g. hollow top portion to conceal the cable when the light fixture is mounted against a flat surface e.g. a wall or ceiling . The cable may provide an electrical connection to the lens module and or other components of the light fixture . For example the cable may connect to electrical wires from an electrical box or junction box and a power adapter in the light fixture . The power adapter may convert the external electrical supply e.g. an AC source to an electrical supply compatible with e.g. a DC source a low voltage source etc. the components of the light fixture e.g. the lens module and or any internal components . The cable may further be connected to electrical wires used to connect to the light socket .

Referring to internal components of the light fixture are shown. The bottom portion of the base is shown separated into a front cover and a back cover . A portion e.g. half of the microphone grille the IR sensor lens the adjustment grips and the speaker grille are shown on the front cover . A portion e.g. half of the microphone grille the indicator LEDs and the speaker are shown on the back cover

The lens module may be positioned to fit between e.g. be held in place by the front cover and the back cover . For example the lens module may be partially enclosed within the back cover and partially exposed through the front cover

The processor module is shown as an internal component of the light fixture . The processor module is shown comprising two circuit boards e.g. a circuit board and a circuit board . The components of each of the circuit boards may be varied according to the design criteria of a particular implementation. For example the shape of the processor module may be configured based on the shape e.g. aesthetics of the light fixture the internal components implemented heat dissipation factors etc. For example the shape of the processor module may be configured to fit around the lens module .

The circuit board is shown comprising the processor . The circuit board is shown connected to the speaker . The circuit board is shown connected to the indicator LEDs . The circuit board is shown connected to the microphone . For example the microphone is connected to the circuit board to provide a closer proximity to the bottom of the base e.g. to receive external audio signals . The circuit board is shown connected to the IR sensor . For example the IR sensor is connected to the circuit board to line up with the IR sensor lens on the bottom of the base .

The circuit board is shown comprising a button . The button may be a reset or initialization button. For example the reset button may be used to allow a user to configure the light fixture . The reset button may be accessed via one of the holes of the microphone grille and or another opening on the base .

A power adapter is shown as an internal component of the light fixture . The power adapter is shown connected to the cable . The power adapter may be configured to receive an external power source e.g. an AC power source from the premises . The power adapter may be configured to convert the external power source to a power source usable by the processor module and or the lens module e.g. a 5V DC source . The power adapter may be configured for low audible noise e.g. to prevent coupling with the microphone .

Referring to a cut away view of internal components of the exemplary embodiment is shown. The speaker may be positioned to line up with the speaker grille . The speaker may emit audio through the speaker grille .

The lens module is shown comprising the camera module . The camera module may capture video data from the surrounding environment through the lens . The video data captured by the camera module may be presented to the processor module . The processor may be configured to process the received video data captured by the camera module . The processor may generate the control signals in response to the received video data.

Referring to a side view of the light fixture is shown. The light fixture mounts are shown covered by decorative caps. The lens module is shown in the bottom portion of the base below a level of the light shade . The attachment is shown connected to the top portion of the base .

The attachment may be removably attached to the top portion with the light shade mounts . In the side view shown the attachment may cover the light shade mounts . The attachment may be attached to the light shade . The attachment may be configured to have a hollow channel . The hollow channel of the attachment may provide space to feed wires from the back of the base through the light shade mounts through the attachment and to the lamp shade . For example the hollow channel may provide space to allow a connection to the socket of the light shade .

Referring to a front view of the light fixture is shown. The lens module is shown in the bottom portion of the base that extends below the light shade . The lens is shown not being obstructed by the light shade . The light shade may obstruct or block the top portion of the base . The light shade may partially obstruct or block the bottom portion of the base .

Referring to a rear view of the light fixture is shown. The top portion is shown exposed and hollow. The light shade mounts and the light fixture mounts are shown within the top portion . The light shade mounts and or the light fixture mounts may not extend past the base e.g. to allow the base to sit flush against a flat surface .

Wires are shown extending from the light shade mounts . In the example shown the hot wire and the neutral e.g. return wire are shown extending from the light shade mount and the ground wire is shown extending from the light shade mount . The wires may connect to supply electrical wires e.g. from an electrical box and or junction box to connect to a power source on the premises and or the cable . The wires may be tucked within the hollow top portion . Tucking the wires within the top portion may hide the wires from view when the light fixture is mounted. The wires may be fed through one or more of the light shade mounts to the hollow channel in the attachment . Via the hollow channel in the attachment the wires may connect to the light socket to power the light bulb .

The cable may connect to the same supply electrical wires as the wires . For example the wires may connect the light socket to the power source on the premises e.g. an AC source such as a 120V 60 Hz source a 230V 50 Hz source and or any other source to power the light bulb . The cable may connect the power adapter to the power source on the premises. For example the wires in the cable may connect to corresponding wires . For example the hot wire from the cable may connect to one of the wires . In another example the control wire from the cable may connect to one of the wires . For example the control wire from the cable may present the control signal from the processor e.g. via the power adapter to the light bulb e.g. to control the light bulb . The configuration of the wires and or the cable may be varied according to the design criteria of a particular implementation. The cable and or the wires may allow easy installation of the light fixture in a small amount of time e.g. less than 15 minutes .

Referring to a rear view of the internal components of the light fixture in the bottom portion of the base is shown. The processor module the lens module and the power adapter are shown. The speaker is shown connected to the circuit board . The lens module is shown connected to the processor module . The power adapter is shown connected to the processor module .

The circuit board is shown as an L shape e.g. configured to fit around the lens module . The circuit board is shown comprising the processor and the communication module . The processor is shown under a heatsink . For example the communication module may be a Wi Fi circuit. The communication module may be connected to an antenna . For example the antenna may be a flexible Wi Fi antenna. The Wi Fi antenna may be held in place e.g. glued to a bottom of the base . The circuit board may comprise other internal components of the light fixture . For example the circuit board may comprise a Bluetooth antenna e.g. a Bluetooth antenna may be positioned on the other side of the circuit board .

The lens module is shown having an opening. The opening may allow the cable to connect the camera sensor to the circuit board . The cable may be configured to transmit the video data captured by the camera sensor . For example the cable may be a high speed low noise flexible cable. The circuit board may transmit the video data from the cable to the processor .

The circuit board is shown connected to the circuit board . The circuit board is shown connected to the microphone the IR sensor the indicator LEDs and the reset button . The arrangement of the components and or the type of components of the circuit board may be varied according to the design criteria of a particular implementation.

A cable is shown connecting the power adapter to the processor module . The cable may transmit supply power converted by the power adapter to the processor module and the lens module . The cable may transmit the control signals from the processor to the power supply . For example the cable may transmit DC signals between the power supply and the processor module . The power adapter may convert the control signals from the processor to be compatible with the light bulb and or other external devices. For example the power adapter may convert external power received from the cable to provide power to the processor module via the cable . In another example the power adapter may convert signals received from the processor module via the cable to provide power to external devices via the cable . The light fixture may be configured to be weatherproof. The light fixture may be installed at indoor and or outdoor locations. For example the light fixture may be waterproof and or water resistant. The light fixture may be configured to operate in direct sunlight cold climates and warm climates. For example the light fixture may operate in temperatures ranging from 40 F to 131 F. The light fixture may have an ingress protection marking and or an international protection marking rating of IP44. For example the light fixture may be effectively protected against water splashing against the base from any direction and or protected against objects e.g. wires screws etc. greater than 1 mm in size.

The communication module may be configured to connect to a local network and or a wide area network e.g. the internet . In some embodiments the communication module may be configured to implement one or more types of communications protocols. For example the communication module may support a Wi Fi connection and or a Bluetooth connection. In some embodiments the communication module may be distributed as multiple circuits on the processor module e.g. a processing chip for each communications protocol . Other types of communications protocols may be implemented according to the design criteria of a particular implementation. In some embodiments the communication module may implement the Bluetooth connection to connect to a user device e.g. a smartphone to provide an interface for configuring the light fixture e.g. to allow the user to input local network settings . In some embodiments the communication module may implement the Wi Fi connection to connect to a cloud service via the internet.

In some embodiments the light fixture may be configured to upload data e.g. the captured video data to the cloud service. For example the data uploaded to the cloud service may be streamed to the user device. The user device may connect to the cloud service to allow the user to request the stored video data. For example the video data may be sent to the user device as a live or nearly live video stream. The data traffic to from the cloud services may be encrypted e.g. AES 128 bit encryption AES 256 bit encryption etc. . User account passwords may be salted and hashed with a cryptographic hash function.

In some embodiments the light fixture may store the captured video data e.g. in the memory . In some embodiments the video data may be uploaded to the cloud service. Generally the cloud service and or the memory may have a limited storage capacity. In some embodiments the light fixture may analyze the captured video data e.g. using the processor and or data from the IR sensor to perform a particular type of detection. For example the light fixture may detect objects motion and or visitors within 3 meters e.g. 10 feet . The light fixture may initiate storage of the video data in response to the particular type of detection. The detection performed by the light fixture may be used to detect objects approaching the premises.

For example the light fixture may initiate storage of the video data in response to motion detection. The user device may be used to allow a user to set a motion threshold for the light fixture . For example a lower motion threshold may be more sensitive to motion. In another example a higher motion threshold may be less sensitive to motion e.g. reduce a number of false positives . The motion threshold may be adjustable.

In some embodiments the light fixture may initiate storage of the video data in response to detecting and or locating a person and or other type of object in the video data. For example the light fixture may analyze the video data to detect people and or animals. In some embodiments facial recognition may be implemented to identify and or recognize visitors. In some embodiments the video data may be analyzed to determine a behavior of the visitors.

The light fixture may implement machine learning techniques to improve detection accuracy of visitors and or objects. For example the user may be able to provide a correct and or incorrect label to a detection performed by the light fixture . If the detection is incorrect the incorrect label may be used by the light fixture to incorporate an incorrect result of the detection into the machine learning techniques. In some embodiments the machine learning techniques may be implemented in the cloud service e.g. the analysis is performed using cloud computing resources . Video data and or correct incorrect labels may be uploaded and or stored anonymously e.g. without personal identification information . The light fixture may be configured to ignore e.g. not respond to not track and or not send notifications in response to small animals and or shadows.

In some embodiments the light fixture may be configured to send notifications to the user device in response to the detection. For example a text message and or an email may be transmitted in response to the notification. In another example a notification may be sent via an API e.g. push notifications for a particular operating system e.g. Android notifications IOS notifications Windows notifications etc. . Generally the user may create a user account e.g. comprising at least an email address and a password as credentials for the cloud service e.g. via an app and or a web based interface . The user account may allow the user to configure preferences. The preferences may comprise the notification settings. The type of notifications sent by the light fixture may be based on the notification settings.

In some embodiments the notifications may be sent in response to the Wi Fi signal. For example the cloud services may detect that the light fixture is no longer connected. The cloud services may send the notification to the user device indicating that the Wi Fi connection was lost and or disconnected. The communication module may be configured to re connect to the cloud services when the Wi Fi connection is established.

The cloud service may store portions of the video data. For example portions of the video data may be saved in response to the particular types of detections. The portions of video data may be video clips. The video clips may be encoded and or compressed to reduce a size of storage capacity of the video clips. The video clips may have a limited video length e.g. 30 seconds one minute 90 seconds five minutes etc. . The length of the video clips may be based on the configuration preferences and or in response to the detections by the light fixture e.g. a longer video clip may result in response to continuous detections . In some embodiments the video clips may be pre padded and or post padded with video data before and or after the detection. For example the video clip may store video data from a pre determined time before and or after the detection e.g. 30 seconds before the detection and or 30 seconds after the detection for a video clip approximately one minute long .

In some embodiments a user interface may be provided for the user device e.g. an app an executable program a web based interface etc. . The user interface may allow one or more user devices to control various components of the light fixture . For example one or more user devices may be configured to access the user account. The control signals may be generated in response to the input from the user devices. For example an icon may be provided on the user interface representing a light bulb. The user may activate and or deactivate the light bulb by pressing touching on a touchscreen clicking etc. the icon.

Other external components may be turned on and or off from the user interface. For example icons may be provided to allow the user to control the speaker . In one example the speaker may playback a pre recorded audio message e.g. the user may select from one or more pre recorded audio messages on the user interface . In another example the speaker may sound an alarm e.g. one or more alarm types may be selected from the user interface .

In some embodiments the light fixture may be configured for two way audio communications e.g. an intercom . For example a visitor may speak through the microphone . The microphone may receive the audio data. The communication module may transmit the received audio to the user device. The user device may playback the audio to the user. The user may speak via the user device. The user device may transmit the audio to the light fixture via the communication module e.g. a Wi Fi connection . The speaker may transmit and or stream the received audio.

The detection the pre recorded audio the video streaming and or the two way audio communication may allow the user to observe the surrounding environment of the light fixture from anywhere and at any time. For example the light fixture may be used to deter a burglar when a family is away from home e.g. on vacation . In another example the light fixture may alert the user of a package being delivered to the home and the user may provide instructions to the delivery person.

In some embodiments the user interface may be used to input a schedule. The control signals may be generated in response to the schedule. For example the schedule may indicate times and or dates to activate and or deactivate the light bulb e.g. a dusk to dawn mode . In some embodiments the control signals may be generated in response to the schedule and a random value. For example the schedule may be configured to turn on the light bulb at 8 pm and the random value may add or subtract a maximum value of 5 minutes to the scheduled time to allow the light bulb to be activated at any time between 7 55 pm and 8 05 pm. The random value may be implemented to provide the appearance that the light bulb is being controlled by a person instead of a schedule. The schedule may be customizable via the user interface e.g. different patterns on weekdays and weekends .

The light fixture may provide various APIs application programming interface to connect with other devices e.g. other home automation devices . For example the APIs may allow various other devices to communicate with the light fixture . The light fixture may generate control signals based on the communication with the various devices other devices. The types of APIs available may be varied according to the design criteria of a particular implementation.

The user interface may provide various information to the user. For example the user interface may indicate a signal strength e.g. Wi Fi and or Bluetooth signal strength provide Wi Fi setup allow each of the light fixtures to be named allow the user to enable disable and or customize alerts notifications and or rename save share and or download particular video clips etc. The user interface may allow the user to control one or more of the light fixtures .

While the invention has been particularly shown and described with reference to the preferred embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made without departing from the scope of the invention.

