---

title: Generating terahertz frequency combs from quantum cascade lasers using nonlinear frequency mixing
abstract: Methods and systems include generating one or more mid-infrared frequencies based at least upon electron transitions in one or more quantum cascade heterostructures. The quantum cascade heterostructures are concurrently configured with a significant second-order nonlinear susceptibility, a significant third-order nonlinear susceptibility, and an insignificant group velocity dispersion. A set of mid-infrared frequencies (that may include a frequency comb) is generated in the quantum cascade heterostructures based at least upon a four-wave mixing of the one or more mid-infrared frequencies. The four-wave mixing arises at least from the significant third-order nonlinear susceptibility and the insignificant group velocity dispersion. A set of terahertz frequencies (that may include a frequency comb) is generated in the quantum cascade heterostructures based at least upon a difference frequency generation from mid-infrared frequency pairs selected from the set of mid-infrared frequencies. The difference frequency generation arises at least from the significant second-order nonlinear susceptibility.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09509123&OS=09509123&RS=09509123
owner: Board of Regents The University of Texas System
number: 09509123
owner_city: Austin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151021
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 066 746 filed on Oct. 21 2014 titled GENERATING OPTICAL TERAHERTZ FREQUENCY COMBS USING TERAHERTZ CHERENKOV DIFFERENCE FREQUENCY GENERATION IN QUANTUM CASCADE LASERS and naming Mikhail Belkin Karun Vijayraghavan and Seungyong Jung as inventors. The aforementioned application is hereby incorporated by reference herein.

The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention pursuant to the terms of National Science Foundation Grant No. ECCS 1408511 Broadband THz frequency comb generation in quantum cascade lasers .

The present disclosure relates generally to generating terahertz frequency combs and more particularly to generating optical terahertz frequency combs using nonlinear frequency mixing in quantum cascade lasers.

A frequency comb is a spectrum consisting of a discrete set of equally spaced frequency elements. Frequency comb generation generally involves the combination of an optical laser source with a nonlinear process. Frequency combs can be generated by a number of mechanisms including amplitude modulation in continuous wave lasers or stabilization of pulse trains generated by semiconductor mode locked lasers. Four wave mixing can be used in microresonators and quantum cascade lasers to produce frequency combs. However frequency comb generation using existing terahertz frequency range 0.1 10 THz quantum cascade laser systems requires cryogenic cooling to operate and has limited bandwidth for comb generation. Optical frequency combs provide a useful tool with applications in numerous areas including spectroscopy metrology sensing ranging and distance measurement.

While specific embodiments are shown by way of example in the drawings and the accompanying detailed description various other modifications and alternative forms are possible. It should be understood that the drawings and detailed description are not intended to be limiting.

The following detailed description is merely illustrative in nature and is not intended to limit the embodiments of the subject matter of the application or uses of such embodiments. As used herein the word exemplary means serving as an example instance or illustration. Any implementation described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other implementations. Furthermore there is no intention to be bound by any expressed or implied theory presented in the preceding technical field background brief summary or the following detailed description.

This specification includes references to one embodiment or an embodiment The appearances of the phrases in one embodiment or in an embodiment do not necessarily refer to the same embodiment. Particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner consistent with this disclosure.

Terminology. The following paragraphs provide definitions and or context for terms found in this disclosure including the appended claims 

 Comprising. This term is open ended. As used in the appended claims this term does not foreclose additional structure or steps.

 Configured To. Various units or components may be described or claimed as configured to perform a task or tasks. In such contexts configured to is used to connote structure by indicating that the units components include structure that performs those task or tasks during operation. As such the unit component can be said to be configured to perform the task even when the specified unit component is not currently operational e.g. is not on active . Reciting that a unit circuit component is configured to perform one or more tasks is expressly intended not to invoke 35 U.S.C. 112 sixth paragraph for that unit component.

 First Second etc. As used herein these terms are used as labels for nouns that they precede and do not imply any type of ordering e.g. spatial temporal logical etc. . For example reference to a first module unit does not necessarily imply that this module unit is the first module unit in a sequence instead the term first is used to differentiate this module unit from another module unit e.g. a second module unit .

 Based On. As used herein this term is used to describe one or more factors that affect a determination. This term does not foreclose additional factors that may affect a determination. That is a determination may be solely based on those factors or based at least in part on those factors. Consider the phrase determine A based on B. While B may be a factor that affects the determination of A such a phrase does not foreclose the determination of A from also being based on C. In other instances A may be determined based solely on B.

 Coupled The following description refers to elements nodes or features being coupled . As used herein unless expressly stated otherwise coupled means that one element node feature is directly or indirectly joined to or directly or indirectly communicates with another element node feature and not necessarily mechanically.

 Inhibit As used herein inhibit is used to describe a reducing or minimizing effect. When a component or feature is described as inhibiting an action motion or condition it may completely prevent the result or outcome or future state completely. Additionally inhibit can also refer to a reduction or lessening of the outcome performance and or effect which might otherwise occur. Accordingly when a component element or feature is referred to as inhibiting a result or state it need not completely prevent or eliminate the result or state.

In addition certain terminology may also be used in the following description for the purpose of reference only and thus are not intended to be limiting. For example terms such as upper lower above and below refer to directions in the drawings to which reference is made. Terms such as front back rear side outboard and inboard describe the orientation and or location of portions of the component within a consistent but arbitrary frame of reference which is made clear by reference to the text and the associated drawings describing the component under discussion. Such terminology may include the words specifically mentioned above derivatives thereof and words of similar import.

In the following description numerous specific details are set forth such as specific operations in order to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the present disclosure. It will be apparent to one skilled in the art that embodiments of the present disclosure may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known techniques are not described in detail in order to not unnecessarily obscure embodiments of the present disclosure.

Disclosed below are various concepts related to and embodiments of a quantum cascade laser QCL designed to generate terahertz THz frequency combs THz FC via difference frequency generation DFG between mid infrared mid IR emissions lines with some of the mid IR emission lines being frequency combs FC generated concurrently in the QCL. For a discussion on the formation of mid IR frequency combs in QCLs please refer to Mid infrared frequency comb based on a quantum cascade laser Andreas Hugi Gustavo Villares Stephane Blaser H. C. Liu Jerome Faist 13 Dec. 2012 VOL 492 NATURE LETTERS which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety and for all purposes.

A Cherenkov emission scheme may be utilized for broadband THz outcoupling. These devices may be operated at room temperature to output THz FCs spanning the entire 0.5 6 THz range and beyond. THz FC QCLs can enable rapid and highly sensitive broadband THz spectroscopy and spectroscopic imaging using highly sensitive room temperature heterodyne THz detectors such as Schottky diodes. A QCL based THz FC spectroscopic system would represent a significant improvement in speed compactness spectral resolution and cost effective mass production over existing THz spectroscopic systems. Additional applications for the disclosed THz FC sources may include metrology and distance measurements.

QCL includes an active region surrounded by waveguide cladding layers and . Waveguide cladding layers and are disposed about active region to form waveguide structure to guide mid IR radiation by which terahertz radiation is emitted by laser as described below. In some embodiments wave guide layers and comprise a 3 m thick layer of n doped InP n 1.5 10cm . QCL may include a current extraction layer which is a thin doped semiconductor layer positioned on substrate to improve lateral current extraction from active region . In some embodiments current extraction layer comprises a 200 nm thick layer of n doped InGaAs n 7 10cm . In some embodiments current extraction layer and waveguide cladding layer are the same layer.

To facilitate extraction of THz radiation along a substantial portion of the length of the waveguide a Cherenkov phase matching scheme may be utilized. Cherenkov emission occurs when the phase velocity of the nonlinear polarization wave in a thin slab of nonlinear optical material is faster than the phase velocity of the THz radiation in the medium surrounding the slab. By suitably configuring the refractive indices of waveguide and substrate the THz radiation generated in active region may be efficiently extracted out of waveguide .

One or more contact layers such as contact layers and shown in may be employed to facilitate the application of current through active region . Contact layer is formed on an upper surface of waveguide cladding layer . Contact layer is formed on an upper surface of contact layer . In some embodiments contact layer is a metal that includes gold. In some embodiment contact layer may be omitted and contact layer may be formed directly over waveguide cladding layer . To avoid total internal reflection at the front facet of QCL of the THz radiation emitted into substrate via the Cherenkov process the front portion of substrate should be cut and polished at a suitable angle as shown in . In some embodiments such angle is in the range 20 30 . A THz anti reflective coating may be applied to the polished substrate facet to improve THz outcoulping efficiency and a high reflective coating may be applied the back facet of QCL to improve intracavity intensity of the generated mid infrared and THz radiation

Active region includes one or more quantum cascade heterostructures configured to have concurrent second order nonlinear susceptibility significant third order nonlinear susceptibility and insignificant group velocity dispersion GVD . Quantum engineering of the quantum cascade heterostructures energy subband states and intersubband transitions between such states may be utilized to provide resonant enhancement of and additional details for calculating these higher order susceptibilities are provided below . In general and may be considered significant when they are orders of magnitude greater than second and third order nonlinear susceptibilities of comparable materials that have not been engineered in accordance with the present disclosure. GVD is considered insignificant when it is zero or approximately zero as discussed below in more detail.

Each quantum cascade heterostructure includes a plurality of quantum cascade stages with each stage comprising a series of alternating barrier and well layers. In some embodiments quantum cascade stages may be arranged as a InGaAs InAlAs multiple quantum well structures that use InGaAs in quantum well layers and InAlAs in quantum barrier layers. The number of quantum cascade stage repetitions in a quantum cascade heterostructure is set suitably and is for example approximately 10 80 in some embodiments. In some embodiments the one or more heterostructures are configured to have a broad mid IR spectral gain bandwidth spanning anywhere from 1 THz 10 THz. In some embodiments one or more of the quantum cascade heterostructures includes at least one bound to continuum structure.

As discussed in more detail below one or more quantum cascade heterostructures within active region are configured to generate a set of mid IR frequencies based at least upon four wave mixing FWM of one or more mid IR frequencies generated by the one or more quantum cascade heterostructures arising at least from the integration of significant third order nonlinear susceptibility and insignificant group velocity dispersion in the active region. In some embodiments the set of mid IR frequencies may include a mid IR frequency comb a mid IR frequency comb and a single frequency above or below the comb any other combination of mid IR frequencies. The mid IR frequencies may represent the mid IR pump frequencies associated with the QCL. Concurrently the one or more quantum cascade heterostructures are also configured to generate a terahertz frequency comb based at least upon the second order nonlinear optical process of difference frequency generation between mid infrared emission lines with some of the mid IR emission lines forming frequency combs FC .

In some embodiments a single quantum cascade heterostructure may be configured to generate the one or more mid IR frequencies used to generate the set of mid IR frequencies. In other embodiments two quantum cascade heterostructures may be used with a first quantum cascade heterostructure configured to generate a first mid IR frequency and a second quantum cascade heterostructure configured to generate a second mid IR frequency wherein the set of mid IR frequencies results from four wave mixing of the first and second mid IR frequencies.

Operation of THz FC QCLs in accordance with some embodiments is illustrated in . Employing a Cherenkov emission scheme waveguide may be configured so that that mid IR frequency radiation generated in active region propagates along the waveguide while THz frequency radiation generated via the DFG process in the active region is emitted into substrate at a Cherenkov angle given as 

where and are the propagation constants of the two mid IR frequencies and generated in active region kis the k vector of the terahertz wave at frequency in the substrate nis the group refractive index of the mid IR pump modes and nthe refractive index of the substrate at .

In some embodiments substrate is comprised of undoped InP that is configured with low THz loss and low refractive index dispersion with nvarying in the 3.5 3.6 range for 0.5 5 THz light frequencies. The value of nfor a typical TMmid IR QCL waveguide mode is approximately 3.35 and Eq. 1 yields a Cherenkov angle of approximately 20 24 in the 0.5 5 THz range. Given a typical intersubband transition linewidth of approximately 10 meV 3 THz for optical transitions in QCLs the intersubband optical nonlinearity for THz DFG is not changing significantly in the 0.5 5 THz range which makes Cherenkov THz DFG QCLs well suited for broadband THz generation.

Active region and waveguide are designed with insignificant GVD integrated in the active region for a range of operational interest to facilitate the formation of mid IR FC via FWM in the active region. The QCLs of the present disclosure may be modeled as Fabry Perot F P resonators. The frequency spacing between adjacent modes in an F P resonator are given as

where L is the resonator length and nis the group refractive index for the resonator mode. The group refractive index nis related to the group velocity vand GVD as

For purposes of the present disclosure the GVD is considered insignificant when nis constant or substantially constant which translates to the GVD being zero or approximately zero. Substantially constant nis important to maintain equidistant mid IR F P modes to enable frequency comb formation via FWM processes. The phase matching conditions for these FWM processes also translate into the requirement of a substantially constant nwithin the FC bandwidth.

Intersubband transitions that produce laser gain in the QCL active region will also affect GVD of the laser modes. The real and imaginary parts of the refractive index in the active region n i for the electric field perpendicular to the QCL layers in can be estimated as 

Here N is the population inversion density the summation goes over transitions from the upper laser state 1 to the various lower laser states i 2 3 . . . cf. where ez and are the dipole matrix element frequency and broadening of the transition between states i and j respectively and n is the refractive index of the active region at zero doping which arises from the intrinsic refractive indices of the QCL active region. The group refractive index in the QCL active region n can then be written as

and nand nare the contributions to nfrom the intrinsic refractive indices of the QCL active region. and intersubband transitions respectively.

Referring to it is evident that nwill contribute insignificant GVD in the 7 10 m range. The contribution from the dispersion of ncan be a major factor affecting the GVD of mid IR QCL modes. At high pump current the laser has significant population inversion N which results in a strong GVD due to the contribution from nin Eq. 6 .

The problem of having strong GVD due to the QCL gain can be mitigated by using a heterogeneous QCL active region design in which each of the plurality of quantum cascade stages in the active region is designed to provide gain at a slightly different wavelength. In such a way a region with a relatively flat gain profile in the active region for the waveguide mode will result at least in part in insignificant GVD for the laser modes close to the gain center. By broadening the QCL gain a region of low dispersion of ncan be created near the peak gain. In contrast for QCL active regions with narrow gain n strong dispersions may be experienced near the peak gain. The problem of strong GVD dispersion can also be addressed by using chirped mirrors at the end of the laser cavity.

The active region in the QCLs of the present disclosure are also designed with significant third order nonlinear susceptibility integrated into the active region to promote efficient mid IR FC generation via FWM and significant second order nonlinear susceptibility integrated into the active region to promote efficient THz DFG. The basic theoretical formalism used in the active region design of the QCLs of present disclosure is described below in the context of QCL with two quantum cascade heterostructures.

where and are the two mid IR pump frequencies associated with quantum cascade heterostructures and respectively N is the population inversion density ez and are the dipole matrix element frequency and broadening of the transition between states i and j respectively. The population inversion in the devices of the present invention can be estimated as N 8.5 10cmbased on the laser gain equals distributed resonator loss condition. Transition dipole moments and energies were calculated to be z 2.2 nm z 2.2 nm z 8 nm E12 135 meV and E13 154 meV for quantum cascade heterostructure and z 2.0 nm z 2.4 nm z 0.6 nm z 9.0 nm E 117 meV E 134 meV and E 154 meV for quantum cascade heterostructure . Assuming typical 12.5 meV for the mid IR transitions and 4 meV for the THz transition one obtains 22 nm V and 10 nm V for quantum heterostructures and respectively at the operating bias voltage. These values of are 2 4 orders of magnitude larger than that of traditional nonlinear crystals. It has been shown experimentally that the current values of are already sufficient to produce over 100 W THz DFG power output with 0.6 mW W2 mid IR to THz nonlinear conversion efficiency at room temperature from 1.5 mm long 25 m wide ridge waveguide Cherenkov THz DFG QCL devices.

The value of intersubband for the mid IR FWM in the QCL active region can be evaluated using the sum of two level system expressions 

where and are three adjacent mid IR F P laser modes involved in the FWM process N is the population inversion between the upper state 1 and the lower state i as shown in 1 Twhere Tis the lifetime of the lower laser state i typically T 0.2 ps for lower QCL laser states T 3 meV is the transition linewidth between states 1 and i typically 10 15 meV and the summation goes over the multitude of the lower laser states i 2 3 . . . . The difference between frequencies and has been neglected in Eq. 5 and instead was used in the expression. This is a valid assumption because 

In accordance with the teachings of the present disclosure THz FC may be generated from QCLs with active regions that include one or more quantum cascade heterostructures configured integrated with significant second and third order nonlinear susceptibilities associated with intersubband transitions and insignificant GVD. show the mid IR and terahertz THz emission spectra of a QCL with two quantum cascade heterostructures in accordance with some embodiments. These results were obtained for a QCL with two quantum cascade heterostructures having band structures similar to those shown in and illustrate the formation of THz FC via DFG of emission lines of a mid IR FC formed via FWM of the two mid IR pump frequencies generated by the two quantum cascade heterostructures. The QCL was operated in pulsed mode 100 ns current pulses at 100 kHz repetition frequency at room temperature at high bias currents 2.5 A pump current and a broadband mid IR multi mode comb like emission spectrum was observed as shown in . The THz emission of the same QCL device was also measured and a comb like THz spectrum was observed as shown in .

In cases where feedback grating comprises multiple independently biased DBRs as discussed above THz emission spectra comprising sets of THz FC may be generated by suitable adjustment of the independent biases. By adjusting the bias associated with particular DBRs THz FCs within the set of THz FC may be selectively turned on or off thereby allowing the controlled selection of subset of the set of THz FCs.

The QCL devices disclosed herein may be operated as pulsed mode or continuous wave CW lasers. For certain applications CW operation at room temperatures may be useful. Exemplary configurations of QCL devices with thermal packaging to achieve CW operation at room temperature are shown in . The elements of the QCL devices shown in that utilize the elements of quantum cascade laser of reference the element numbers discussed in connection with .

In other embodiments the substrate in may be undoped or doped at a very low concentration e.g. at a concentration of 

The graphs in illustrate how terahertz spectroscopy may be performed in some embodiments. A terahertz frequency beam for example a terahertz frequency comb beam may be sent through a sample that is to be analyzed. In this example the terahertz beam may contain a harmonic series of evenly spaced terahertz frequencies nf where n 1 . . . N. The probe beam may be then superimposed on a heterodyne detector with another terahertz frequency comb for example from a local oscillator with a slightly different frequency spacing nfas shown in graph . The two beams then interfere to produce power modulation at radio frequencies RF beat nodes fn on a heterodyne detector where f f1 f2 

Thus a frequency comb terahertz spectrometer may be created that consists of a frequency comb probe source a frequency comb local oscillator a sample a detector and an RF spectrum analyzer configured to detect RF beat nodes resulting from the heterodyne detector. Such a spectrometer may have no moving parts may measure sample spectral properties simultaneously for all frequency comb frequencies and may be highly sensitive due to heterodyne detection principle.

The systems may be used to characterize the emission linewidth of a fixed frequency distributed feedback terahertz DFG QCL sources. In such experiments output from one single terahertz frequency DFG QCL may be mixed with that from another single terahertz frequency DFG QCL with slightly shifted terahertz emission. The generated beats modes may be used to determine terahertz emission linewidth. In addition terahertz emission linewidth of terahertz DFG QCLs in pulsed and CW operation may be compared to determine whether terahertz emission from DFG QCLs remains narrow in pulsed operation.

In some embodiments the method described here may be implemented using one or more of the devices described and shown in one or more of the previous figures.

The method begins at where at block one or more mid infrared frequencies are generated based at least upon optical transitions in one or more quantum cascade heterostructures in an active region. The one or more quantum cascade heterostructures are concurrently configured with a significant second order nonlinear susceptibility a significant third order nonlinear susceptibility and an insignificant group velocity dispersion for mid infrared laser modes.

At block a set of mid infrared frequencies that may include a mid infrared frequency comb is generated in the one or more quantum cascade heterostructures based at least upon a four wave mixing of the one or more mid infrared frequencies. The four wave mixing arises at least from the significant third order nonlinear susceptibility and the insignificant group velocity dispersion.

At block a set of terahertz frequencies that may include a mid infrared frequency comb is generated in the one or more quantum cascade heterostructures based at least upon a difference frequency generation from mid infrared frequency pairs selected from the set of mid infrared frequencies. The difference frequency generation arises at least from the significant second order nonlinear susceptibility.

One or more embodiments are disclosed. It should be noted that these and any other embodiments are exemplary and are intended to be illustrative rather than limiting. While what is disclosed is widely applicable to various types of systems a skilled person will recognize that it is impossible to include all of the possible embodiments and contexts in this disclosure. Upon reading this disclosure many alternative embodiments will be apparent to persons of ordinary skill in the art.

Those of skill will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as hardware firmware software or combinations of those. To illustrate clearly this interchangeability of hardware firmware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Those of skill in the art may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application.

Although specific embodiments have been described above these embodiments are not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure even where only a single embodiment is described with respect to a particular feature. Examples of features provided in the disclosure are intended to be illustrative rather than restrictive unless stated otherwise. The above description is intended to cover such alternatives modifications and equivalents as would be apparent to a person skilled in the art having the benefit of this disclosure.

The scope of the present disclosure includes any feature or combination of features disclosed herein either explicitly or implicitly or any generalization thereof whether or not it mitigates any or all of the problems addressed herein. Accordingly new claims may be formulated during prosecution of this application or an application claiming priority thereto to any such combination of features. In particular with reference to the appended claims features from dependent claims may be combined with those of the independent claims and features from respective independent claims may be combined in any appropriate manner and not merely in the specific combinations enumerated in the appended claims.

