---

title: Virtual doorbell augmentations for communications between augmented reality and virtual reality environments
abstract: Concepts and technologies are disclosed herein for virtual doorbell augmentations for communications between augmented reality and virtual reality environments. According to one aspect, an augmented reality server computer can provide an augmented reality environment to a user device. The augmented reality environment can include a view of a physical, real-world environment and a virtual doorbell augmentation applied to a residence depicted in the view of the physical, real-world environment. The augmented reality server computer can receive a selection of the virtual doorbell augmentation. In response to receiving the selection of the virtual doorbell augmentation, the augmented reality server computer can request access to a virtual reality environment provided by a virtual reality server computer associated with the residence.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09646400&OS=09646400&RS=09646400
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, L.P.
number: 09646400
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150212
---
Mapping services such as MAPQUEST mapping service available from AOL Inc. and GOOGLE MAPS mapping service available from Google Inc. provide static maps generated from multiple images such as satellite aerial and street level images. Augmented reality AR street maps also exist. AR street maps may utilize the static map images provided by mapping services and modify the static map images with one or more virtual objects which may contain additional information such as name address and or other identifying information rating and or review information distance from present location web links and or other information. Currently AR applications are limited to commercial and public locations and no attempts have been made to extend the capabilities to residences. This is understandable given the privacy concerns of home owners and renters. Allowing strangers to peek inside one s residence is a security risk and as a consequence residential environments are currently not engineered to interact with AR street maps.

Concepts and technologies are disclosed herein for virtual doorbell augmentations for communication between augmented reality and virtual reality environments. According to one aspect of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein an augmented reality server computer can provide an augmented reality environment to a user device. The augmented reality environment can include a view of a physical real world environment and a virtual doorbell augmentation applied to a residence depicted in the view of the physical real world environment. The augmented reality server computer can receive a selection of the virtual doorbell augmentation. In response to receiving the selection of the virtual doorbell augmentation the augmented reality server computer can request access to a virtual reality environment provided by a virtual reality server computer associated with the residence.

In some embodiments the view of the physical real world environment includes a live view of the physical real world environment. In some other embodiments the view of the physical real world environment includes a non live view of the physical real world environment. In these embodiments the non live view can present a physical real world environment as a static map such as a map provided by a mapping service.

In some embodiments the virtual doorbell augmentation includes a virtual object overlay that overlays at least a portion of the view of the physical real world environment. In some other embodiments the virtual doorbell augmentation includes a spatially integrated virtual object that is spatially integrated with a physical object visible within the view of the physical real world environment.

In some embodiments the augmented reality server computer can provide a request to access at least a portion of the virtual reality environment provided by the virtual reality server computer associated with the residence. The request can include a credential for use by the virtual reality server computer to determine a level of access to the virtual reality environment.

According to one aspect of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein a virtual reality server computer can receive from an augmented reality server computer a request to access a virtual reality environment associated with a residence. The request can be made in response to a selection of a virtual doorbell augmentation from an augmented reality environment presented by the augmented reality server computer. In response to receiving the request the virtual reality server computer can determine a level of access to the virtual reality environment. The virtual reality server computer can provide access to the virtual reality environment in accordance with the level of access. In some embodiments the virtual reality server computer is located inside the residence.

In some embodiments the request includes a credential. The virtual reality server computer can evaluate the credential to determine the level of access to the virtual reality environment.

In some embodiments in response to receiving the request the virtual reality server computer can provide access to a walled garden area of the virtual reality environment while determining the level of access to the virtual reality environment. The level of access can be a full level of access to the virtual reality environment or a limited level of access to the virtual reality environment.

In some embodiments the virtual reality server can allow a physical object to be left for a resident of the residence. The physical object in some embodiments is or includes a 3D printed object printed by a 3D printer located inside the residence.

It should be appreciated that the above described subject matter may be implemented as a computer controlled apparatus a computer process a computing system or as an article of manufacture such as a computer readable storage medium. These and various other features will be apparent from a reading of the following Detailed Description and a review of the associated drawings.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended that this Summary be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter. Furthermore the claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any or all disadvantages noted in any part of this disclosure.

The concepts and technologies disclosed herein provide virtual doorbell augmentations for communications between augmented reality AR and virtual reality VR environments. The concepts and technologies disclosed herein are non obtrusive with security built in to reject intruders spam and other potential malicious behavior. A server computer is described that provides mediation functions for communications between a VR environment e.g. a residence and one or more AR mapping services. To allay privacy concerns the server can utilize a walled garden approach which can be combined with a credence index to validate and rank visitors to allow no limited or full access to the VR environment.

In the past each residence typically had a central physical location for message retrieval. At various times this function was fulfilled by paper and pencil or a dry erase board on a side table at the entrance foyer to the home or kitchen counter table or the like. Later the home answering machine provided a central physical location for message retrieval. In both of these scenarios messages received at the central physical location were directed to any of the occupants of a particular residence.

The Information Age also known as the Computer Age or Digital Age however has replaced the old centralized model of message retrieval with cell phones voicemail email and text messaging. This new model is no longer centralized or conceptually tied to a particular residence and instead provides decentralized and personalized message retrieval to the individual level.

The centralized model is making a comeback thanks to a new technology trend colloquially known as the smart home. Managing the connected or smart home utilizes a central hub. The other development is in home networking Multimedia residential gateways and other smart home technologies are inherently centralized to communicate via a cloud computing platform. Considering these trends a centralized intelligent computer will become commonplace in residence of the future whether physically residing in the residence or off site in a cloud computing platform.

In accordance with the concepts and technologies disclosed herein a central communication server referred to herein as a VR server computer can provide novel VR functionalities to seamlessly interact with AR maps such as those described above. The concepts and technologies described herein provide a VR creation application in the VR server computer so that each residence is capable of presenting a VR environment representative of that particular residence. Additional details regarding this and other aspects of concepts and technologies of virtual doorbell augmentations for communications between AR and VR environments will be provided herein.

While the subject matter described herein may be presented at times in the general context of program modules that execute in conjunction with the execution of an operating system and application programs on a computer system those skilled in the art will recognize that other implementations may be performed in combination with other types of program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures computer executable instructions and or other types of structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the subject matter described herein may be practiced with other computer systems including hand held devices mobile devices wireless devices multiprocessor systems distributed computing systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers routers switches other computing devices described herein and the like.

In the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments or examples. Referring now to the drawings in which like numerals represent like elements throughout the several figures example aspects of virtual doorbell augmentations for communications between AR and VR environments. will be presented.

Referring now to aspects of an operating environment in which various embodiments presented herein may be implemented will be described according to an illustrative embodiment. The illustrated operating environment includes an augmented reality AR server computer . The AR server computer can provide an AR service to one or more user devices such as a user device . The operating environment also includes a virtual reality VR server computer . The VR server computer can provide a VR service to one or more user devices such as the user device . In some embodiments the VR server computer provides a VR service in association with one or more residences and in this regard may also be referred to herein as a residential server. It should be understood however that the VR server computer may provide a VR service in association with other non residential buildings. The AR server computer the user device and the VR server computer are shown in as operating in communication with and or as part of a communication network network . The network can include multiple networks as will be described in greater detail below with reference to .

The AR server computer can execute an AR server operating system OS and one or more application programs such as for example an AR server application and a mapping service application . The AR server OS is a computer program for controlling the operation of the AR server computer . The AR server application and the mapping service application are executable programs configured to execute on top of the AR server OS to provide various functions.

The AR server application can provide an AR service to user devices such as the user device . Augmented reality or AR is used herein to describe a concept in which at least a portion of a physical real world environment is augmented to include computer generated data. The computer generated data can include virtual objects that are presented over and or spatially integrated with real world objects of the physical real world environment. The virtual objects can include text colors patterns gradients graphics other images videos animations combinations thereof and the like. Computer generated data that augments in some manner a view of a physical real world environment and or elements thereof is referred to herein generally as an augmentation. 

In some embodiments an AR service can provide a live view of a physical real world environment. In these embodiments the AR service may utilize a camera component best shown in of the user device to provide a live view of the physical real world environment to be augmented. In other embodiments the AR service can provide a non live view of a physical real world environment. In these embodiments the non live view can present a physical real world environment as a static map such as a map provided by the mapping service application . Accordingly a reality that is to be augmented need not be a present reality and can instead be a past reality encapsulated in a photograph a map or the like that is augmented at a later time such as the present.

According to embodiments disclosed herein the AR server application can provide an AR mapping service to the user device . The AR mapping service can provide the user device access to one or more AR maps which can be presented to a user of the user device via a display best shown in and or another component of or in communication with the user device as will be described below.

An augmented reality map or AR map as used herein can include map imagery to which one or more augmentations are applied. The map imagery can include one or more satellite images one or more aerial images one or more street level images one or more other map images or some combination thereof. Moreover the map imagery can include one or more map elements such as but not limited to residential and commercial buildings other structures highways roads points of interest e.g. parks campgrounds landmarks and monuments airports bus stations railway stations subway stations other public transportation physical landscape features e.g. mountains rivers lakes and other water sources the like and combinations thereof. In some embodiments the map imagery is static and is representative of one or more map elements such as those described above at a time in the past. In some other embodiments the map imagery is dynamic such as a live view of input received by a video camera or other component of or in communication with the user device . A combination of static and dynamic imagery in a single AR map is also contemplated.

An augmentation of an AR map can include a virtual object overlay positioned over at least a portion of the map imagery of a map so that the user can view additional data associated with one or more map elements depicted on the map. An augmentation of an AR map can include a virtual object that is spatially integrated with one or more map elements depicted on the map. The virtual object can include data such as but not limed to name address and or other identifying information rating review and or other critique information distance from a current location of the user device and or other distance information one or more uniform resource locator s and or other link information and or other information associated with one or more elements depicted on the map. For example an augmentation might be a storefront icon the selection of which by a user directs the user device to a virtual store through which the user can browse and or purchase merchandise. Augmentations can take other forms to provide functionality particular to a location shown on a map. For example the selection of a movie theater icon may cause an associated web page to be displayed. The web page can provide a list of show times for one or more movies currently playing at the corresponding theater location. Other augmentations known to those skilled in the art are also contemplated and as such the aforementioned examples should not be construed as limiting the augmentations that the AR map server computer can provide via one or more AR maps.

The concepts and technologies described herein provide a new type of augmentation referred to herein as a virtual doorbell augmentation. A virtual doorbell augmentation is a new type of augmentation that augments a view of a physical real world environment and or elements thereof with a virtual object overlay or spatially integrated virtual object to indicate the availability of a connection to a VR environment associated with a particular element with which the overlay is associated. In accordance with one embodiment disclosed herein and as best shown in a virtual doorbell augmentation can include a doorbell image a sign graphic or other image that overlays or that is spatially integrated with at least a portion of a house or other residence e.g. a condominium or an apartment on an interface displayed by the user device and or an associated component.

After an AR map is created a virtual representation of at least a portion of each virtual property can be associated with a corresponding brick and mortar real property. Verifying user credentials and assigning virtual property to the rightful owner is a pre requisite. This could also be done by local and or state governments for additional revenue. Another logical entity is the United States Post Office. The United States Post Office can take up this role to generate a new revenue stream for example.

The illustrated AR server computer also includes a mapping service application . The mapping service application in some embodiments can create maps to which the AR server application can add augmentation s . The mapping service application in other embodiments can utilize one or more application programming interface API calls to call one or more functions provided by one or more APIs exposed by an external mapping service not shown to access one or more maps created by the external mapping service. The external mapping service can be or can include a service such as for example the MAPQUEST mapping service available from AOL Inc. or the GOOGLE MAPS mapping service available from Google Inc. . The AR server computer can store or cache maps in a map data store . The maps stored or caches in the map data store may be created by the mapping service application the external mapping service or a combination of both. Moreover the map data store can store AR maps created at least in part by the AR server application .

The illustrated AR server computer also includes an augmentation data store . The augmentation data store can store or cache augmentations created by the AR server application and or any external source not shown . An external source may be for example an entity that owns and or operates an element e.g. a restaurant that is to be depicted in one or more AR maps and would like to augment a view of the element with computer generated data.

According to various embodiments the functionality of the AR server computer may be provided by a single device by two similar devices and or by two or more dissimilar devices. Additional details regarding hardware and software components of an exemplary computer architecture that the AR server computer may utilize will be described herein below with reference to .

The illustrated user device can be or can include one or more mobile telephones smartphones tablet computers slate computers smart watches fitness devices smart glasses e.g. the GOOGLE GLASS family of products other wearable devices mobile media playback devices laptop computers notebook computers ultrabook computers netbook computers computers of other form factors computing devices of other form factors other computing systems other computing devices and or the like. It should be understood that the functionality of the user device can be provided by a single device by two or more similar devices and or by two or more dissimilar devices. For purposes of describing the concepts and technologies disclosed herein the user device is described herein as a smartphone. It should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The illustrated user device includes a device OS an AR app a VR app an AR component and a VR component . It should be understood however that the user device can include other components. An illustrative example architecture of the user device is described in greater detail herein with reference to .

The device OS can control the operation of the user device . In some embodiments the device OS includes the functionality of the AR app and or the VR app both of which are described in greater detail below. The device OS can be executed by one or more processors best shown in to cause the user device to perform various operations. The device OS can include a member of the SYMBIAN OS family of operating systems from SYMBIAN LIMITED a member of the WINDOWS MOBILE OS and or WINDOWS PHONE OS families of operating systems from MICROSOFT CORPORATION a member of the PALM WEBOS family of operating systems from HEWLETT PACKARD CORPORATION a member of the BLACKBERRY OS family of operating systems from RESEARCH IN MOTION LIMITED a member of the IOS family of operating systems from APPLE INC. a member of the ANDROID OS family of operating systems from GOOGLE INC. and or other operating systems. These operating systems are merely illustrative of some contemplated operating systems that may be used in accordance with various embodiments of the concepts and technologies described herein and therefore should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The AR app and the VR app can execute on top of the device OS . The AR app and the VR app can be executed by one or more processors best shown in to cause the user device to perform various operations described herein.

The AR app can be a client side application that communicates via the network with the AR server application executing on the AR server computer to provide at least in part an AR service to the user of the user device . For example the AR app can communicate with the AR server application to obtain augmentation data that is stored in the augmentation data store . The augmentation data can be used to augment a reality perceived by the user device via an AR component e.g. as embodied as a video camera component of the user device . The AR app also can communicate via the network with the mapping service application executing on the AR server computer to retrieve one or more maps to which the augmentation data obtained from the augmentation data store can be applied by the AR app . The AR app also can communicate via the network with the AR server application to obtain one or more AR maps created by the AR server computer or another entity.

The AR app in some embodiments can utilize the AR component to provide at least in part an AR service to the user of the user device . The illustrated embodiment of the AR component represents the AR component as an internal component of the user device . It should be understood that the AR component alternatively may be an external component that is in communication with the user device via a wired or wireless connection. The AR component in some embodiments is or includes a camera e.g. a still camera and or video camera a sensor e.g. an accelerometer a global positioning system sensor a solid state compass or the like a display e.g. an integrated display a head mounted display an eyeglasses display a head up display an external monitor a projection system or a holographic display an input device or the like.

The VR server computer can execute a VR server OS and one or more application programs such as for example a VR server application a walled garden application a credential evaluation application which can access local credentials stored on the VR server computer in a local credential data store and a rules engine application . The VR server OS is a computer program for controlling the operation of the VR server computer . The VR server application the walled garden application the credential evaluation application and the rules engine application are executable programs configured to execute on top of the VR server OS to provide various functions.

The VR server application can provide a VR service to user devices such as the user device . Virtual reality or VR is used herein to describe a concept that provides a computer generated environment also referred to herein as a virtual environment that a user can explore via a device such as the user device . A VR environment can be a computer generated representation or at least an approximation of at least a portion of a physical real world environment. For example in accordance with an embodiment of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein a residential environment such as a house can be simulated by the VR server application to provide users with a view of at least a portion of a virtual interior of the house. The user can access the VR environment by selecting or ringing a virtual doorbell augmentation associated with the house. This concept will be described in greater detail below.

The VR environment can be at least partially different from the physical real world environment of which the VR environment is representative. The VR environment can include virtual objects not found in the corresponding physical real world environment. Lighting effects such light bloom and other effects can be applied to the VR environment to create atmosphere. Moreover natural phenomena such as gravity can be simulated in the virtual environment.

The VR environment can provide at least in part a sensory experience for a user. The sensory experience can include sight sound virtual taste virtual smell and virtual touch aspects to make the user feel as if he or she is physically located within the virtual environment. Those skilled in the art will appreciate the variety of sensory experiences that can be provided via virtual reality and as such additional details in this regard are not provided.

Through a VR experience a user can explore via the user device a VR environment that is representative of at least a portion of the house or other residence associated with the virtual doorbell augmentation. By way of example and not limitation the VR environment can include one or more interior rooms of a house landscaping of the house one or more exterior views of the house and the like. The VR environment can be generated by any software framework designed for the creation and development of graphics. Some example software frameworks include but are not limited to UNREAL ENGINE available from Epic Games UNITY available from Unity Technologies CRYENGINE available from Crytek HAVOK VISION ENGINE available from Havok and open source software frameworks. In some embodiments the software frameworks utilize graphics assets such as textures that include or are derived from photographs of the real world environment that is to be virtualized. Those skilled in the art will appreciate the wide range of graphical fidelity visual styles and other attributes a particular VR environment may have and as such further details in this regard are not provided herein.

In some embodiments the VR experience can facilitate transmission of mail electronically to a home address. For example mail such as business letters service bills sales notifications coupons and junk mail can be delivered as virtual objects for presentation within the VR environment. In some other embodiments the VR experience can facilitate communication between the user device and the VR server computer so that the user can leave a physical object within the house. For example a 3D printer in communication with the VR server computer can receive instructions regarding the physical object and can print the physical object for a resident of the house. The physical object may be for example a gift a sample product a 3D greeting card or any other 3D printable object. In some embodiments a business can provide samples to customers via this methodology.

The VR server computer in some embodiments can provide dedicated functionality to a house or other residence. In some embodiments the VR server computer or the functionality of the VR server computer is included in a home server a residential gateway device or other smart home device. The VR server computer can interface via one or more communication interfaces with the AR server computer the user device and or a credential evaluation server computer . The communication interface s can interface with the network over which the VR server computer can receive requests from virtual visitors and credentials in response to a user s interaction with a virtual doorbell augmentation associated with the VR server computer .

A virtual doorbell augmentation can be associated with an owner of the property located at a physical address. In this manner when a user selects or rings the corresponding virtual doorbell augmentation through an interaction with a graphical user interface GUI of the AR app presented via the user device the user device is connected to the residential server associated with that address.

The walled garden application can provide restricted access to visitors of a VR environment provided by the VR server application . A visitor as used herein can be a human user such as the user associated with the user device . A visitor alternatively can be a server such as the AR server computer and or one or more other servers not shown or another computing system or device that programmatically generates requests to access the VR environment provided by the VR server application .

The walled garden application can restrict visitor access to a designated portion of the VR environment while user credentials e.g. username and password and or the like are verified by the credential evaluation application . Other visitors can explore the designated portion of the VR environment before deciding whether to provide their credentials with a request to access at least another portion of the virtual environment. In this manner the walled garden application can limit visitor access based upon the trustworthiness or credibility of the visitor. For example a request from a pre qualified visitor e.g. a friend family member or frequent visitor may be considered trustworthy and therefore may bypass the walled garden application in some implementations.

Visitor credibility can be established via credential evaluation operation performed by the credential evaluation application . In some embodiments the credential evaluation application can compare user credentials received in a request to access the VR environment to user credentials stored in the local credential data store . In some embodiments the VR server computer can communicate with the credential evaluation server computer to compare user credentials received in a request to access the VR environment to user credentials stored in a server credential data store .

In some embodiments the credential evaluation application can utilize a credence index to rank visitors. The credence index can be a measure of authenticity or trust of a visitor e.g. human or machine generated requests . In some embodiments the credence index can be or can include a data table with entries for each visitor type and an allowed access level for each visitor type. The data table in some embodiments is at least partially pre populated for known users. The data table in some embodiments additionally or alternatively can utilize a learning algorithm to add new entries based upon one or more actions taken by a designated resident of the residence in response to a request. In some implementations unknown visitors with unrecognized user credentials e.g. unrecognized user login name password email address and or the like are assigned the lowest credence index ranking such as only allowing access to a walled garden area and then notify a designated resident of the residence to allow the designated resident to perform one or more actions in response.

In some embodiments the credential evaluation application can determine a visitor type associated with each request. In these embodiments a visitor profile available to the AR server computer can be evaluated and provided to the VR server computer . The credential evaluation application executed by the VR server computer can determine a visitor type based upon the visitor profile. Each visitor request can be originated by a human or a machine. If human generated then the AR server computer can receive some form of user identification from the human that generated the request. The user identification can include login credentials such as username password email address and or the like. The user identification can be associated with a visitor profile that includes one or more parameters such as for example biographical data address web reputation social media or a combination thereof.

The user profile can be a measure of reputability of the visitor. For example if a user accessing an AR map via an email login clicks on a virtual doorbell on the AR map the AR server computer can connect to the VR server computer associated with a particular residence. Also the AR server computer can notify the VR server computer that the request is from a verified user or an anonymous user as the case may be.

After a visitor request has reached the VR server computer the visitor can communicate with an avatar that may present questions to the visitor and vice versa. While the avatar is present the VR server computer can parse the visitor responses to questions. Parsing the visitor responses and extracting the semantic content can enable the VR server computer to take appropriate action regarding access to the residence. A parallel with the real world is a hostess opening the front door and assessing a visitor based upon appearance the nature of the communication request and or other information. Usually in the real world case a few questions responses back and forth suffice to assess the situation e.g. respond to the visitor request invite the visitor inside or decline entry . The parallel in virtual world is a set of pre determined rules for the avatar to act upon based on one or more rules.

In some embodiments each communication source can be assigned a rank based upon the authenticity and credibility of the source. In general family friends and other pre qualified sources can be assigned a higher rank than unknown visitors. Multiple factors can be applied in determining the credence index ranking such as for example proof of physical address proof of web presence validated email social network credibility follower list blogs combinations thereof and the like. In some embodiments the credence index ranking has local significance. In other words a visitor with a high credence index ranking who is known to a first user associated with a first residence may be an unknown visitor i.e. low or no credence ranking to a second user associated with a second residence .

In a first example scenario a visitor is an out of towner moving into a neighborhood and he or she wants to contact residents in the vicinity. The following is an interaction that might take place in this example scenario 

In a second example scenario a visitor is an imposter trying to gain unauthorized access to the VR server computer . The following is an interaction that might take place in this example scenario 

The rules engine application can employ one or more if then conditions to determine an access level the VR server computer should provide to a given visitor. An example rules engine logic that may be employed by the rules engine application in accordance with an embodiment is shown in Table 1 below.

In some embodiments a user may not login to the AR server computer but instead may access AR maps anonymously. In these embodiments the reputation of the user can be set to the lowest value but the reputation could be improved during the interaction with the avatar based on the response s provided by the user.

The visitor request may be in the form of an intelligent avatar visiting the VR environment. The visitor request could also be to access communicate with one or more home appliances. For example the VR server computer may display the home appliance s in the VR environment and the visitor request is to obtain data from a specific appliance. The services in this category may include for example a grocery store computer accessing a refrigerator to get an inventory or a home appliance being accessed for a software upgrade. The VR environment may not depict the actual physical layout hence no security risk.

Returning to the description of the user device the VR app can be a client side application that communicates via the network with the VR server application executing on the VR server computer to provide at least in part a VR service to the user of the user device . For example the VR app can communicate with the VR server application to obtain data associated with a VR environment for presentation to the user.

The VR app in some embodiments can utilize the VR component to provide at least in part a VR service to the user of the user device . The illustrated embodiment of the VR component represents the VR component as an internal component of the user device . It should be understood that the VR component alternatively may be an external component that is in communication with the user device via a wired or wireless connection. The VR component in some embodiments is or includes a display e.g. an integrated display a head mounted display an eyeglasses display a head up display an external monitor a projection system or a holographic display an input device a combination thereof or the like. In some embodiments the VR component is OCULUS RIFT available from OCULUS VR SAMSUNG GEAR VR available from SAMSUNG and OCULUS VR GOOGLE CARDBOARD available from GOOGLE MICROSOFT HOLOLENS available from MICROSOFT or the like. The VR app can provide an interface using the VR component through which the user can interact with a VR environment provided by the VR server computer .

Turning now to a diagram illustrating aspects of an AR environment provided at least in part by the AR server computer to the user device will be described according to an illustrative embodiment. The AR environment can be generated by the AR server computer as described above. The AR server computer can provide the AR environment to the AR app executing on the user device . The AR app can present the AR environment to the user via the AR component .

The illustrated AR environment includes a plurality of houses A E collectively houses each of which is associated with a virtual doorbell augmentation A E collectively virtual doorbell augmentations respectively. Each of the virtual doorbell augmentations in the illustrated embodiment is a street sign that includes a partial physical address for the corresponding house. The virtual doorbell augmentations can take other forms such as described above. Some other non limiting examples of forms for the virtual doorbell augmentations include a door image a doorbell image a selectable portion of the corresponding house a user selected image or the like.

Turning now to a diagram illustrating aspects of a transition from the AR environment provided at least in part by the AR server computer to a VR environment provided at least in part by the VR server computer will be described according to an illustrative embodiment. The AR environment can be generated by the AR server computer as described above. The AR server computer can provide the AR environment to the AR app executing on the user device . The AR app can present the AR environment to the user via the AR component . In the illustrated example the user has selected the virtual doorbell augmentation C as shown by a cursor hovering over the virtual doorbell augmentation C. The cursor is shown to illustrate the selection of the virtual doorbell augmentation C. It should be understood however that other methods of selection such as touch voice and gesture are also contemplated as possible interactions by the user with the AR app to effect the selection. As such the illustrated example of the cursor being used to select the virtual doorbell augmentation C should not be construed as limiting in any way.

After selecting the virtual doorbell augmentation C the AR server computer can generate a request to access the VR server computer that is associated with the physical address that in turn is associated with the virtual doorbell augmentation C. The request can include a request to access at least a portion of a VR environment provided by the VR server computer . The request can also include credentials e.g. username password and or the like to be evaluated by the credential evaluation application and or the credential evaluation server computer to determine an access level for the visitor associated with the request. As described above the VR server computer can utilize the walled garden application while the credential evaluation application and or the credential evaluation server computer evaluates any credentials provided in the request.

In the illustrated example the VR server computer has generated a walled garden area in which an avatar is made available to the visitor. The avatar may resemble a human as in the illustrated example or may resemble another animal a fictional character a historical character a shape or any other object. In some implementations the avatar may resemble an individual who lives in the house C. The avatar may be able to engage the visitor with written or spoken dialogue to provide information to the visitor.

After the credential evaluation application and or the credential evaluation server computer determines an access level for the visitor the VR server computer can permit the visitor to access the VR environment . In the illustrated example the visitor is provided full access to the VR environment provided by the VR server computer and as such the visitor can leave the walled garden area of the VR environment and can enter a full access area of the VR environment . If the visitor is provided limited access to the VR environment the visitor can leave the walled garden area and enter a portion of the virtual reality environment corresponding to the level of access given to the visitor. If the user is provided no further access to the VR environment the visitor can be allowed to stay in the walled garden area or may be prevented from further access even to the walled garden area .

Turning now to aspects of a method for providing access to a VR environment such as the VR environment via a virtual doorbell augmentation such as one of the virtual doorbell augmentations will be described according to an illustrative embodiment. It should be understood that the operations of the methods disclosed herein are not necessarily presented in any particular order and that performance of some or all of the operations in an alternative order s is possible and is contemplated. The operations have been presented in the demonstrated order for ease of description and illustration. Operations may be added omitted and or performed simultaneously without departing from the scope of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein.

It also should be understood that the methods disclosed herein can be ended at any time and need not be performed in their respective entireties. Some or all operations of the methods and or substantially equivalent operations can be performed by execution of computer readable instructions included on a computer storage media as defined herein. The term computer readable instructions and variants thereof as used herein is used expansively to include routines applications application modules program modules programs components data structures algorithms and the like. Computer readable instructions can be implemented on various system configurations including the AR server computer the user device the VR server computer the credential evaluation server computer single processor or multiprocessor systems minicomputers mainframe computers personal computers hand held computing devices microprocessor based programmable consumer electronics combinations thereof and the like.

Thus it should be appreciated that the logical operations described herein are implemented 1 as a sequence of computer implemented acts or program modules running on a computing system and or 2 as interconnected machine logic circuits or circuit modules within the computing system. The implementation is a matter of choice dependent on the performance and other requirements of the computing system. Accordingly the logical operations described herein are referred to variously as states operations structural devices acts or modules. These states operations structural devices acts and modules may be implemented in software in firmware in special purpose digital logic and any combination thereof. As used herein the phrase cause a processor to perform operations and variants thereof refers to causing a processor of a computing system or device such as the AR server computer the user device the VR server computer or the credential evaluation server computer to perform one or more operations and or causing the processor to direct other components of the computing system or device to perform one or more of the operations.

For purposes of illustrating and describing some of the concepts of the present disclosure the methods disclosed herein are described as being performed at least in part the AR server computer the user device the VR server computer the credential evaluation server computer or a combination thereof via execution of one or more software modules and or software applications. It should be understood that additional and or alternative devices and or network nodes can provide the functionality described herein via execution of one or more modules applications and or other software. Thus the illustrated embodiments are illustrative and should not be viewed as being limiting in any way.

The method will be described with reference to and further reference to . The method begins at operation where the user device connects to the AR server computer via the network . In particular the user device can execute the AR app client side to communicate with the AR server application server side executing on the AR server computer to establish a connection between the user device and the AR server computer via the network .

From operation the method proceeds to operation where the AR server computer via execution of the AR server application provides at least a portion of an AR environment such as the AR environment best shown in to the user device . The user device can present at least the portion of the AR environment to a user via the AR app . In some embodiments presentation of at least the portion of the AR environment to the user via the AR app can be performed at least in part via instructions provided by the AR app to the AR component . As described above the AR app can communicate with the AR server application to obtain augmentation data that is stored in the augmentation data store . The augmentation data can be used to augment a reality perceived by the user device e.g. via a video camera component of the user device . The AR app also can communicate via the network with the mapping service application executing on the AR server computer to retrieve one or more maps to which the augmentation data obtained from the augmentation data store can be applied by the AR app . The AR app also can communicate via the network with the AR server application to obtain one or more AR maps.

From operation the method proceeds to operation where the user device receives input via the AR app corresponding to a selection of a residence of interest from the AR environment. For example turning briefly to the user device can receive input of a selection of one of the houses via a selection of a corresponding one of the virtual doorbell augmentations .

From operation the method proceeds to operation where the user device provides the selection of the residence of interest and optionally one or more user credentials to the AR server computer . From operation the method proceeds to operation where the AR server computer receives the selection of the residence of interest and if available the user credential s from the user device .

From operation the method proceeds to operation where the AR server computer connects to a VR server computer associated with the selection of the residence of interest. Extending the example shown in the VR server computer associated with the selection of the residence of interest will be described as the VR server computer associated with the selection of the house C via the virtual doorbell augmentation C. This example is provided for ease of explanation and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

From operation the method proceeds to operation where the AR server computer requests access to a VR environment such as the VR environment provided by the VR server computer . Also at operation the AR server computer can optionally provide the user credential s received from the user device . Alternatively the AR server computer can instruct the user device to provide the user credential s directly to the VR server computer along with a network address associated with the VR server computer . From operation the method proceeds to operation where the VR server computer receives the request and if available the user credential s from the AR server computer .

From operation the method proceeds to operation where the VR server computer determines whether the user associated with the request is pre qualified. For example the VR server computer can access the local credential data store to determine whether the user associated with the user credential s has previously accessed the VR server computer or is otherwise pre qualified to access at least a portion of the virtual reality environment . If the VR server computer determines at operation that the user associated with the user credential s has not previously accessed the VR server computer or is otherwise not pre qualified to access at least the portion of the virtual reality environment the method proceeds from operation to operation .

At operation the VR server computer allows the user to enter a walled garden area such as the walled garden area shown in . While in the walled garden area the VR server computer at operation can execute the credential evaluation application to evaluate the user credential s . From operation the method proceeds to operation where the VR server computer via execution of the credential evaluation application determines a credence index ranking based upon the user credential s . Also at operation the credential evaluation application provides the credence index ranking to the rules engine application .

From operation the method proceeds to operation where the VR server computer determines via execution of the rules engine application an access level to provide to the visitor based upon data supplied in accordance with a rules set. From operation the method proceeds to operation where the VR server computer provides the visitor with access to the VR environment in accordance with the access level determined at operation .

Returning to operation if the VR server computer determines that the user associated with the user credential s has previously accessed the VR server computer or is otherwise pre qualified to access at least the portion of the virtual reality environment the method proceeds from operation to operation where the method ends.

The computer system includes a processing unit a memory one or more user interface devices one or more input output I O devices and one or more network devices each of which is operatively connected to a system bus . The bus enables bi directional communication between the processing unit the memory the user interface devices the I O devices and the network devices .

The processing unit may be a standard central processor that performs arithmetic and logical operations a more specific purpose programmable logic controller PLC a programmable gate array a system on a chip or other type of processor known to those skilled in the art and suitable for controlling the operation of the server computer. Processing units are generally known and therefore are not described in further detail herein.

The memory communicates with the processing unit via the system bus . In some embodiments the memory is operatively connected to a memory controller not shown that enables communication with the processing unit via the system bus . The memory includes an operating system and one or more program modules . The operating system can include but is not limited to members of the WINDOWS WINDOWS CE and or WINDOWS MOBILE families of operating systems from MICROSOFT CORPORATION the LINUX family of operating systems the SYMBIAN family of operating systems from SYMBIAN LIMITED the BREW family of operating systems from QUALCOMM CORPORATION the MAC OS iOS and or LEOPARD families of operating systems from APPLE CORPORATION the FREEBSD family of operating systems the SOLARIS family of operating systems from ORACLE CORPORATION other operating systems and the like. The operating system can be the AR server OS as illustrated and described with reference to .

The program modules may include various software and or program modules to perform the various operations described herein. The program modules for the computer system embodied as the AR server computer can include the AR server application and or the mapping service application . The program modules for the computer system embodied as the user device can include the AR app and or VR app . The program modules for the computer system embodied as the VR server computer can include the VR server application the walled garden application the credential evaluation application and or the rules engine application . The program modules and or other programs can be embodied in computer readable media containing instructions that when executed by the processing unit perform one or more operations such as the operations described herein above with reference to the method illustrated in . According to embodiments the program modules may be embodied in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof.

By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may include any available computer storage media or communication media that can be accessed by the computer system . Communication media includes computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics changed or set in a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of the any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Computer storage media includes volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM Erasable Programmable ROM EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory or other solid state memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer system . In the claims the phrase computer storage medium and variations thereof does not include waves or signals per se and or communication media.

The user interface devices may include one or more devices with which a user accesses the computer system . The user interface devices may include but are not limited to computers servers personal digital assistants cellular phones or any suitable computing devices. The I O devices enable a user to interface with the program modules . In one embodiment the I O devices are operatively connected to an I O controller not shown that enables communication with the processing unit via the system bus . The I O devices may include one or more input devices such as but not limited to a keyboard a mouse or an electronic stylus. Further the I O devices may include one or more output devices such as but not limited to a display screen or a printer.

The network devices enable the computer system to communicate with other networks or remote systems via a network such as the network best shown in . Examples of the network devices include but are not limited to a modem a radio frequency RF or infrared IR transceiver a telephonic interface a bridge a router or a network card. The network may include a wireless network such as but not limited to a wireless local area network WLAN a wireless wide area network WWAN a wireless personal area network WPAN such as provided via BLUETOOTH technology a wireless metropolitan area network WMAN such as a WiMAX network or metropolitan cellular network. Alternatively the network may be a wired network such as but not limited to a wide area network WAN a wired LAN such as provided via Ethernet a wired personal area network n PAN or a wired metropolitan area network MAN .

Turning now to additional details of a network such as the network are illustrated according to an illustrative embodiment. The network includes a cellular network a packet data network for example the Internet and a circuit switched network for example a publicly switched telephone network PSTN . The cellular network includes various components such as but not limited to base transceiver stations BTSs Node B s or e Node B s base station controllers BSCs radio network controllers RNCs mobile switching centers MSCs mobile management entities MMEs short message service centers SMSCs multimedia messaging service centers MMSCs home location registers HLRs home subscriber servers HSSs visitor location registers VLRs charging platforms billing platforms voicemail platforms GPRS core network components location service nodes an IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS and the like. The cellular network also includes radios and nodes for receiving and transmitting voice data and combinations thereof to and from radio transceivers networks the packet data network and the circuit switched network .

A mobile communications device such as for example the user device a cellular telephone a user equipment a mobile terminal a PDA a laptop computer a handheld computer and combinations thereof can be operatively connected to the cellular network . The cellular network can be configured as a 2G Global System for Mobile communications GSM network and can provide data communications via General Packet Radio Service GPRS and or Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE . Additionally or alternatively the cellular network can be configured as a 3G Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS network and can provide data communications via the High Speed Packet Access HSPA protocol family for example High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA Enhanced UpLink EUL also referred to as High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA and HSPA . The cellular network also is compatible with 4G mobile communications standards such as Long Term Evolution LTE or the like as well as evolved and future mobile standards.

The packet data network includes various devices for example servers computers databases and other devices in communication with another as is generally known. The packet data network devices are accessible via one or more network links. The servers often store various files that are provided to a requesting device such as for example a computer a terminal a smartphone or the like. Typically the requesting device includes software a browser for executing a web page in a format readable by the browser or other software. Other files and or data may be accessible via links in the retrieved files as is generally known. In some embodiments the packet data network includes or is in communication with the Internet. The circuit switched network includes various hardware and software for providing circuit switched communications. The circuit switched network may include or may be what is often referred to as a plain old telephone system POTS . The functionality of a circuit switched network or other circuit switched network are generally known and will not be described herein in detail.

The illustrated cellular network is shown in communication with the packet data network and a circuit switched network though it should be appreciated that this is not necessarily the case. One or more Internet capable devices for example the user device a PC a laptop a portable device or another suitable device can communicate with one or more cellular networks and devices connected thereto through the packet data network . It also should be appreciated that the Internet capable device can communicate with the packet data network through the circuit switched network the cellular network and or via other networks not illustrated .

As illustrated a communications device for example a telephone facsimile machine modem computer or the like can be in communication with the circuit switched network and therethrough to the packet data network and or the cellular network . It should be appreciated that the communications device can be an Internet capable device and can be substantially similar to the Internet capable device . In the specification the network is used to refer broadly to any combination of the networks . It should be appreciated that substantially all of the functionality described with reference to the network can be performed by the cellular network the packet data network and or the circuit switched network alone or in combination with other networks network elements and the like.

Turning now to an illustrative mobile device and components thereof will be described. In some embodiments the user device described above with reference to can be configured as and or can have an architecture similar or identical to the mobile device described herein in . It should be understood however that the user device may or may not include the functionality described herein with reference to . While connections are not shown between the various components illustrated in it should be understood that some none or all of the components illustrated in can be configured to interact with one other to carry out various device functions. In some embodiments the components are arranged so as to communicate via one or more busses not shown . Thus it should be understood that and the following description are intended to provide a general understanding of a suitable environment in which various aspects of embodiments can be implemented and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

As illustrated in the mobile device can include a display for displaying data. According to various embodiments the display can be configured to display various graphical user interface GUI elements text images video advertisements prompts virtual keypads and or keyboards messaging data notification messages metadata internet content device status time date calendar data device preferences map and location data combinations thereof and the like. The mobile device also can include a processor and a memory or other data storage device memory . The processor can be configured to process data and or can execute computer executable instructions stored in the memory . The computer executable instructions executed by the processor can include for example an operating system e.g. the device OS one or more applications e.g. the AR app and or the VR app other computer executable instructions stored in a memory or the like. In some embodiments the applications also can include a UI application not illustrated in .

The UI application can interface with the operating system to facilitate user interaction with functionality and or data stored at the mobile device and or stored elsewhere. In some embodiments the operating system can include a member of the SYMBIAN OS family of operating systems from SYMBIAN LIMITED a member of the WINDOWS MOBILE OS and or WINDOWS PHONE OS families of operating systems from MICROSOFT CORPORATION a member of the PALM WEBOS family of operating systems from HEWLETT PACKARD CORPORATION a member of the BLACKBERRY OS family of operating systems from RESEARCH IN MOTION LIMITED a member of the IOS family of operating systems from APPLE INC. a member of the ANDROID OS family of operating systems from GOOGLE INC. and or other operating systems. These operating systems are merely illustrative of some contemplated operating systems that may be used in accordance with various embodiments of the concepts and technologies described herein and therefore should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The UI application can be executed by the processor to aid a user in entering content viewing account information answering initiating calls entering deleting data entering and setting user IDs and passwords for device access configuring settings manipulating address book content and or settings multimode interaction interacting with other applications and otherwise facilitating user interaction with the operating system the applications and or other types or instances of data that can be stored at the mobile device .

According to various embodiments the applications can include for example presence applications visual voice mail applications messaging applications text to speech and speech to text applications add ons plug ins email applications music applications video applications camera applications location based service applications power conservation applications game applications productivity applications entertainment applications enterprise applications combinations thereof and the like. The applications the data and or portions thereof can be stored in the memory and or in a firmware and can be executed by the processor . The firmware also can store code for execution during device power up and power down operations. It can be appreciated that the firmware can be stored in a volatile or non volatile data storage device including but not limited to the memory and or a portion thereof.

The mobile device also can include an input output I O interface . The I O interface can be configured to support the input output of data such as location information user information organization information presence status information user IDs passwords and application initiation start up requests. In some embodiments the I O interface can include a hardwire connection such as USB port a mini USB port a micro USB port an audio jack a PS2 port an IEEE 1394 FIREWIRE port a serial port a parallel port an Ethernet RJ45 port an RJ11 port a proprietary port combinations thereof or the like. In some embodiments the mobile device can be configured to synchronize with another device to transfer content to and or from the mobile device . In some embodiments the mobile device can be configured to receive updates to one or more of the applications via the I O interface though this is not necessarily the case. In some embodiments the I O interface accepts I O devices such as keyboards keypads mice interface tethers printers plotters external storage touch multi touch screens touch pads trackballs joysticks microphones remote control devices displays projectors medical equipment e.g. stethoscopes heart monitors and other health metric monitors modems routers external power sources docking stations the AR component the VR component combinations thereof and the like. It should be appreciated that the I O interface may be used for communications between the mobile device and a network device or local device.

The mobile device also can include a communications component . The communications component can be configured to interface with the processor to facilitate wired and or wireless communications with one or more networks described above herein. In some embodiments other networks include networks that utilize non cellular wireless technologies such as WI FI or WIMAX. In some embodiments the communications component includes a multimode communications subsystem for facilitating communications via the cellular network and one or more other networks.

The communications component in some embodiments includes one or more transceivers. The one or more transceivers if included can be configured to communicate over the same and or different wireless technology standards with respect to one another. For example in some embodiments one or more of the transceivers of the communications component may be configured to communicate using GSM CDMA CDMAONE CDMA2000 LTE and various other 2G 2.5G 3G 4G and greater generation technology standards. Moreover the communications component may facilitate communications over various channel access methods which may or may not be used by the aforementioned standards including but not limited to TDMA FDMA W CDMA OFDM SDMA and the like.

In addition the communications component may facilitate data communications using GPRS EDGE the HSPA protocol family including HSDPA EUL or otherwise termed HSUPA HSPA and various other current and future wireless data access standards. In the illustrated embodiment the communications component can include a first transceiver TxRx A that can operate in a first communications mode e.g. GSM . The communications component also can include an Ntransceiver TxRx N that can operate in a second communications mode relative to the first transceiver A e.g. UMTS . While two transceivers A N hereinafter collectively and or generically referred to as transceivers are shown in it should be appreciated that less than two two and or more than two transceivers can be included in the communications component .

The communications component also can include an alternative transceiver Alt TxRx for supporting other types and or standards of communications. According to various contemplated embodiments the alternative transceiver can communicate using various communications technologies such as for example WI FI WIMAX BLUETOOTH infrared infrared data association IRDA near field communications NFC other radio frequency RF technologies combinations thereof and the like.

In some embodiments the communications component also can facilitate reception from terrestrial radio networks digital satellite radio networks internet based radio service networks combinations thereof and the like. The communications component can process data from a network such as the Internet an intranet a broadband network a WI FI hotspot an Internet service provider ISP a digital subscriber line DSL provider a broadband provider combinations thereof or the like.

The mobile device also can include one or more sensors . The sensors can include temperature sensors light sensors air quality sensors movement sensors orientation sensors noise sensors proximity sensors the sensor devices or the like. As such it should be understood that the sensors can include but are not limited to accelerometers magnetometers gyroscopes infrared sensors noise sensors microphones combinations thereof or the like. Additionally audio capabilities for the mobile device may be provided by an audio I O component . The audio I O component of the mobile device can include one or more speakers for the output of audio signals one or more microphones for the collection and or input of audio signals and or other audio input and or output devices.

The illustrated mobile device also can include a subscriber identity module SIM system . The SIM system can include a universal SIM USIM a universal integrated circuit card UICC and or other identity devices. The SIM system can include and or can be connected to or inserted into an interface such as a slot interface . In some embodiments the slot interface can be configured to accept insertion of other identity cards or modules for accessing various types of networks. Additionally or alternatively the slot interface can be configured to accept multiple subscriber identity cards. Because other devices and or modules for identifying users and or the mobile device are contemplated it should be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The mobile device also can include an image capture and processing system image system . The image system can be configured to capture or otherwise obtain photos videos and or other visual information. As such the image system can include cameras lenses charge coupled devices CCDs combinations thereof or the like. The mobile device may also include a video system . The video system can be configured to capture process record modify and or store video content. Photos and videos obtained using the image system and the video system respectively may be added as message content to a multimedia message service MMS message email message and sent to another mobile device. The video and or photo content also can be shared with other devices via various types of data transfers via wired and or wireless communication devices as described herein.

The mobile device also can include one or more location components . The location components can be configured to send and or receive signals to determine a geographic location of the mobile device . According to various embodiments the location components can send and or receive signals from GPS devices A GPS devices WI FI WIMAX and or cellular network triangulation data combinations thereof and the like. The location component also can be configured to communicate with the communications component to retrieve triangulation data for determining a location of the mobile device . In some embodiments the location component can interface with cellular network nodes telephone lines satellites location transmitters and or beacons wireless network transmitters and receivers combinations thereof and the like. In some embodiments the location component can include and or can communicate with one or more of the sensors such as a compass an accelerometer and or a gyroscope to determine the orientation of the mobile device . Using the location component the mobile device can generate and or receive data to identify its geographic location or to transmit data used by other devices to determine the location of the mobile device . The location component may include multiple components for determining the location and or orientation of the mobile device .

The illustrated mobile device also can include a power source . The power source can include one or more batteries power supplies power cells and or other power subsystems including alternating current AC and or direct current DC power devices. The power source also can interface with an external power system or charging equipment via a power I O component . Because the mobile device can include additional and or alternative components the above embodiment should be understood as being illustrative of one possible operating environment for various embodiments of the concepts and technologies described herein. The described embodiment of the mobile device is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

Based on the foregoing it should be appreciated that concepts and technologies directed to virtual doorbell augmentations for communications between AR and VR environments have been disclosed herein. Although the subject matter presented herein has been described in language specific to computer structural features methodological and transformative acts specific computing machinery and computer readable media it is to be understood that the concepts and technologies disclosed herein are not necessarily limited to the specific features acts or media described herein. Rather the specific features acts and mediums are disclosed as example forms of implementing the concepts and technologies disclosed herein.

The subject matter described above is provided by way of illustration only and should not be construed as limiting. Various modifications and changes may be made to the subject matter described herein without following the example embodiments and applications illustrated and described and without departing from the true spirit and scope of the embodiments of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein.

