---

title: Systems and methods for identifying and suggesting emoticons
abstract: Computer-implemented systems and methods are provided for suggesting emoticons for insertion into text based on an analysis of sentiment in the text. An example method includes: determining a first sentiment of text in a text field; selecting first text from the text field in proximity to a current position of an input cursor in the text field; identifying one or more candidate emoticons wherein each candidate emoticon is associated with a respective score indicating relevance to the first text and the first sentiment based on, at least, historical user selections of emoticons for insertion in proximity to respective second text having a respective second sentiment; providing one or more candidate emoticons having respective highest scores for user selection; and receiving user selection of one or more of the provided emoticons and inserting the selected emoticons into the text field at the current position of the input cursor.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09372608&OS=09372608&RS=09372608
owner: Machine Zone, Inc.
number: 09372608
owner_city: Palo Alto
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150521
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. Pat. No. 9 043 196 filed Jul. 7 2014 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The invention s described herein generally relate to emoticons. More particularly the invention s relate to systems and methods for identifying and suggesting emoticons during various activities on a computing device.

Originally emoticons were facial expressions represented by characters e.g. ASCII characters commonly found on computer keyboards such as letters numbers and symbols. These original emoticons once placed in an electronic message or an electronic posting by an author e.g. electronic bulletin board were meant to convey the author s mood or to convey enhance the overall sentiment of the message or the posting. In beginning these emoticons were limited to expressing moods such as happiness anger sadness and indifference. Gradually however the use of these character based emoticons characters hereafter character emoticons expanded to conveying meanings and messages.

Eventually emoticons expanded further in type availability and usage. Today emoticons include character emoticons and emoticons represented by graphical images hereafter graphical emoticons . With the availability of graphical emoticons a user can depict a greater number of moods meanings and messages not once possible with character emoticons alone. Both character and graphical emoticons are now available for use through a variety of digital devices e.g. mobile telecommunication devices and tablets and are used in a variety of computing activities especially with respect to the Internet. For example graphical emoticons are commonly available for use when drafting personal e mails when posting messages on the Internet e.g. on social networking site or a web forum and when messaging between mobile devices. Generally as a user performs a computing activity applicable to emoticons the user may access emoticons through a menu or library from which they can browse and select emoticons for use in the computing activity.

Unfortunately with the emergence of graphical emoticons the number of emoticons a user can choose from has grown vastly. There are graphical emoticons available for almost every subject matter imaginable. Due to the expansion in number usage availability and variety of emoticons it can be quite time consuming and sometimes overwhelming for users to browse through and select appropriate emoticons for a given context when participating in emoticon applicable computing activities.

Various embodiments discussed herein provide systems and methods for identifying and suggesting emoticons for segments of texts. Some systems and methods may be utilized during a user activity on a computing device including without limitation instant messaging participating in online chat rooms drafting e mails posting web blogs or posting to web forums.

An exemplary method includes receiving a set of segments from a text field analyzing the set of segments to determine at least one of a target subtext or a target meaning associated with the set of segments and identifying a set of candidate emoticons where each candidate emoticon in the set of candidate emoticons has an association between the candidate emoticon and at least one of the target subtext or the target meaning. The method may further include presenting the set of candidate emoticons for entry selection at a current position of an input cursor receiving an entry selection for a set of selected emoticons from the set of candidate emoticons and inserting the set of selected emoticons into the text field at the current position of the input cursor. The set of segments may include one or more segments of interest selected relative to a current position of an input cursor in the text field the set of candidate emoticons may include one or more candidate emoticons and the set of selected emoticons may include one or more selected emoticons. Depending on the embodiment analyzing the set of segments may include semantic analysis of the set of segments.

For some embodiments each association may include a statistical usage of the candidate emoticon with at least one of the target subtext or the target meaning Additionally for some embodiments the method may further include updating the statistical usage of the candidate emoticons based on the entry selection for the set of selected emoticons. Depending on the embodiment the statistical usage may be based on usage by a single user or by a plurality of users.

Presenting the set of emoticons for entry selection may involve displaying the emoticon for entry selection at or near the current position of the input cursor. Presenting the set of candidate emoticons for entry selection may include displaying the set of candidate emoticons for entry selection on a physical input device or a virtual input device e.g. on screen keyboard or a projected keyboard wherein the physical input device and the displayed input interface are configured to execute the entry selection. Depending on the embodiment the virtual input device may be displayed by a display device that is also displaying the text field. Additionally the virtual input device may be displayed in close proximity to the text field.

In some embodiments the method may further include identifying the set of segments using syntactical analysis. Each segment of interest may include at least one of a word a sentence fragment a sentence a phrase or a passage that precedes or follows a current position of an input cursor.

In particular embodiments identifying the set of candidate emoticons may be further based on at least a user preference user related information or recipient related information. The user related information may include a user interest a user ethnicity a user religion a user geographic location a user age a user relational status and a user occupation. The recipient related information may include a recipient s relation to a user a recipient interest a recipient ethnicity a recipient religion a recipient geographic location a recipient age a recipient relational status and a recipient occupation.

An exemplary system includes a processor a display module an input module a segment analysis module an emoticon search module an emoticon suggestion module and an emoticon selection module. The display module may be configured to display a text field and one or more segments entered into the text field.

The input module may be configured to receive segment input from a user and to enter the segment input into the text field at an input cursor. The segment analysis module may be configured to receive a set of segments from the text field wherein the set of segments includes one or more segments of interest selected relative to a current position of the input cursor in the text field. The segment analysis module may be further configured to use the processor to analyze the set of segments to determine at least one of a target subtext or a target meaning associated with the set of segments. The emoticon search module may be configured to identify a set of candidate emoticons wherein each candidate emoticon in the set of candidate emoticons has an association between the candidate emoticon and at least one of the target subtext or the target meaning and wherein the set of candidate emoticons includes one or more candidate emoticons. The emoticon suggestion module may be configured to present the set of candidate emoticons through the display module for entry selection at the current position of the input cursor. The emoticon selection module may be configured to receive from the input module an entry selection for a set of selected emoticons from the set of candidate emoticons wherein the set of selected emoticons includes one or more selected emoticons. The emoticon selection module may be further configured to insert the set of selected emoticons into the text field at the current position of the input cursor.

In some embodiments the system further includes an emoticon datastore having one or more emoticons capable of entry into the text field and wherein the emoticon search module is further configured to identify a set of candidate emoticons on the emoticon datastore.

In various embodiments each association may include a statistical usage of the candidate emoticon with at least one of the target subtext or the target meaning and the emoticon selection module may be further configured to update the statistical usage of the candidate emoticons based on the entry selection for the set of selected emoticons.

In some embodiments presenting the set of emoticons through the display module for entry selection may include displaying the emoticon for entry selection at or near the current position of the input cursor. The input module may include a physical input device or a virtual input device wherein the physical input device and the virtual input interface are configured to execute the entry selection.

In one aspect the invention relates to a computer implemented method. The method includes determining a first sentiment of text in a text field selecting first text from the text field in proximity to a current position of an input cursor in the text field identifying one or more candidate emoticons wherein each candidate emoticon is associated with a respective score indicating relevance to the first text and the first sentiment based on at least historical user selections of emoticons for insertion in proximity to respective second text having a respective second sentiment providing one or more candidate emoticons having respective highest scores for user selection and receiving user selection of one or more of the provided emoticons and inserting the selected emoticons into the text field at the current position of the input cursor.

In certain examples the method includes receiving one or more user defined emoticons provided by a user each user defined emoticon including a visual representation of the emoticon and being associated with a respective natural language and respective text. The method may also include crediting an account of the user for creation of the user defined emoticons. The credit may be for example a virtual asset for an electronic game. Statistics may be provided to the user pertaining to use of the user defined emoticons by other users.

In some implementations one of the candidate emoticons is one of the user defined emoticons which may have an associated score that is higher than the scores of the other candidate emoticons. Providing the candidate emoticons for user selection may include ordering the candidate emoticons according to the respective scores and providing the candidate emoticons according to the order.

The method may also include determining that the first text is text associated with a brand a product and or a service and based thereon identifying a candidate emoticon for the brand the product and or the service. The associated score of the candidate emoticon for the brand the product or the service may be higher than the associated scores of the other candidate emoticons. In some examples the method includes calculating the score of a particular candidate emoticon based on a distance between the first and second texts a historical number of user selections of the particular emoticon and similarity between the first and second sentiment. The score may be based on similarity between a natural language of the first text and a natural language of the second text.

In some implementations providing the candidate emoticons includes presenting the candidate emoticons for user selection at or near the current position of the input cursor. The first text may include for example at least one of a word a sentence fragment a sentence a phrase or a passage that precedes or follows the current position of the input cursor. In one example identifying the candidate emoticons is further based on at least a preference of the user user related information and or recipient related information. The method may include providing an application programming interface through which the identifying of the candidate emoticons can be initiated.

In another aspect a system includes a searchable corpus of emoticons and one or more computers programmed to provide an application programming interface. The application programming interface is configured to perform operations including determining a first sentiment of text in a text field selecting first text from the text field in proximity to a current position of an input cursor in the text field wherein the selected text includes one or more segments identifying one or more candidate emoticons in the corpus wherein each candidate emoticon is associated with a respective score indicating relevance to the first text and the first sentiment based on at least historical user selections of emoticons for insertion in proximity to respective second text having a respective second sentiment providing one or more of candidate emoticons having respective highest scores for user selection and receiving user selection of one or more of the provided emoticons and inserting the selected emoticons into the text field at the current position of the input cursor.

In some examples the corpus of emoticons includes public emoticons and private emoticons. The operations may also include receiving one or more user defined emoticons provided by a user each user defined emoticon including a visual representation of the emoticon and being associated with a respective natural language and respective text. In one implementation the operations include crediting an account of the user for creation of the user defined emoticons. The credit may be for example a virtual asset or virtual currency for an electronic game. The user may be provided with statistics pertaining to use of the user defined emoticons by other users.

In various implementations providing the candidate emoticons for user selection includes ordering the candidate emoticons according to the respective scores and providing the candidate emoticons according to the order. The operations may also include determining that the first text is text associated with a brand a product and or a service and based thereon identifying a candidate emoticon for the brand the product and or the service. In one example the operations also include calculating the score of a particular candidate emoticon based on a distance between the first and second texts a historical number of user selections of the particular emoticon and similarity between the first and second sentiment. The score may be based on similarity between a natural language of the first text and a natural language of the second text.

In certain examples providing the candidate emoticons includes presenting the candidate emoticons for user selection at or near the current position of the input cursor. The first text may include at least one of a word a sentence fragment a sentence a phrase or a passage that precedes or follows the current position of the input cursor. Identifying the candidate emoticons may be based on at least a preference of the user user related information and or recipient related information. The operations may also include providing an application programming interface through which the identifying of the candidate emoticons can be initiated.

In another aspect the invention relates to a computer program product stored in one or more storage media for controlling a processing mode of a data processing apparatus. The computer program product is executable by the data processing apparatus to cause the data processing apparatus to perform operations including determining a first sentiment of text in a text field selecting first text from the text field in proximity to a current position of an input cursor in the text field identifying one or more candidate emoticons wherein each candidate emoticon is associated with a respective score indicating relevance to the first text and the first sentiment based on at least historical user selections of emoticons for insertion in proximity to respective second text having a respective second sentiment providing one or more candidate emoticons having respective highest scores for user selection and receiving user selection of one or more of the provided emoticons and inserting the selected emoticons into the text field at the current position of the input cursor.

Other features and aspects of some embodiments will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings which illustrate by way of example the features in accordance with various embodiments.

A number of embodiments described herein relate to systems and methods that identify and suggest emoticons during a variety of activities on a computing device involving typing characters into a text field. Various systems and methods may identify the emoticon by analyzing a context of segments present in the text field and identifying one or more candidate emoticons available for entry into the text field based on that context. Subsequently the user may select one or more emoticons from the candidate emoticons and the selected emoticons may be entered into the text field. Optionally the user could choose to ignore the emoticon suggestion s entirely and continue with their activities on the computing device. As used in this description a segment may comprise one or more characters that represent a word a phrase a sentence fragment a sentence or a passage.

Depending on the embodiment analysis of the context of segments present in the text field may involve determining a subtext or a meaning relating to those segments which may require semantic analysis of those segments. Also as described herein the association between a particular candidate emoticon and a particular subtext or meaning may be based on past statistical usage of the particular candidate emoticon with the particular subtext or meaning. In various embodiments such emoticon usage may be based on a user s personal usage of the particular emoticon with the particular subtext or meaning e.g. user s selection of suggested emoticons in the particular subtext or meaning or may be based on a community s usage of the particular emoticon with the particular subtext or meaning e.g. observed usage of certain emoticons in postings on a social network by a community of users .

In accordance with some embodiments the tablet computing device the smartphone computing device and the desktop computing device may be exemplary digital devices that utilize systems and methods for identifying and suggesting emoticons for entry. For instance such computing devices may utilize certain embodiments to identify and suggest emoticons when a user is using an instant messaging application on such computing devices or when the user is posting a message on a website forum through such computing devices. Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that other digital devices could be utilized in conjunction with various embodiments described herein.

In some embodiments the emoticon suggestion server may facilitate the identification and suggestion of an emoticon for a user at a digital device. As later described herein the emoticon suggestion server may determine the context of a segment may identify one or more candidate emoticons based on a determined context may suggest one or more candidate emoticons to a digital device or may perform some combination thereof. For various embodiments the emoticon suggestion server may be a service operating on a server that hosts an Internet service where the emoticon suggestion server provides emoticon suggestion functionality to the Internet service. For instance the emoticon suggestion server may be a service operating on a web server that is hosting a website e.g. a website forum or a social networking website that is being serviced by the emoticon suggestion server i.e. that is being provided emoticon suggestions by the emoticon suggestion server .

Depending on the embodiment various operations and components for identifying and suggesting an emoticon may be isolated to the digital device that utilizes the emoticon suggestions or may be distributed on varying levels amongst two or more digital devices. For example a system or method for identifying suggesting and entering an emoticon when drafting an e mail on the smartphone computing device may be entirely embedded in an e mail application that is stored and operated on the smartphone computing device . In an alternative example while using the tablet computing device to prepare a message post for a website forum a system or method for identifying suggesting and entering an emoticon may utilize the tablet computing device to determine the context of the message as currently prepared utilize the emoticon suggestion server to identify one or more candidate emoticons for use in the message as currently prepared and then utilize the tablet computing device to present the candidate emoticons as suggested emoticons.

The emoticon suggestion server may utilize the remote emoticon datastore during the identification and suggestion of emoticons to digital devices. For certain embodiments the remote emoticon datastore may comprise a library of emoticons available for suggestion by the emoticon suggestion server and associations between emoticons in the library and contexts e.g. subtexts and meanings . For example the remote emoticon datastore may comprise a library of happy face emoticons and associations between the happy face emoticons and a happy context. In another example the remote emoticon datastore may comprise a library of San Francisco emoticons and associations between the San Francisco emoticons and contexts that explicitly or implicitly refers to the city of San Francisco. For some embodiments the remote emoticon datastore may comprise two or more associations between a given emoticon and a given context e.g. subtext or meaning For example the remote emoticon datastore may comprise a library of frowning face emoticons associations between the frowning face emoticons and a sad context and associations between the frowning face emoticons and a displeased context. Those skilled in the art would appreciate that a variety of emoticon libraries and a variety of association between emoticons and contexts can be stored on the remote emoticon datastore .

Depending on the embodiment the library of emoticons may comprise emoticons that are accessible by any user or accessible by a limited group of users restricted access e.g. based on a premium or only accessible to certain groups user customized or user uploaded emoticons or emoticons that are user favorites. In addition to character and graphical emoticons that convey a mood or emotion from an author emoticons used in various embodiments may include those that relate to interests hobbies geographic locations events holidays seasons weather and the like. Emoticons stored on the emoticon suggestion datastore may include character emoticons graphical emoticons graphically animated emoticons and emoticons accompanied by sound. For some embodiments the remote emoticon datastore may further comprise user preferences user information or recipient information which may be utilized by the embodiments when identifying emoticons suitable for suggestion. For example the remote emoticon datastore may store a user preference that causes an embodiment to suggest user defined or user uploaded emoticons before suggesting emoticons generally available to any user. In another example the remote emoticon datastore may store a user preference that causes an embodiment to automatically insert the first emoticon suggested to the user by the embodiment or to automatically insert the suggested emoticon having the highest usage in a given context.

In some embodiments the tablet computing device the smartphone computing device and the desktop computing device may each be coupled to a separate local emoticon datastore capable of storing user customized emoticons a user s favorite or preferred emoticons associations between emoticons stored on the local emoticon datastore and contexts e.g. subtext or meaning user preferences with respect to identifying and suggesting emoticons user related information or recipient related information. For instance the tablet computing device may be coupled to the local emoticon datastore the smartphone computing device may be coupled to the local emoticon datastore and the desktop computing device may be coupled to the local emoticon datastore .

Additionally each of the local emoticon datastores and may be utilized by their respective computing device to locally cache previously suggested emoticons or suggested emoticons previously selected by a user. In doing so some embodiments can repeatedly suggest the same emoticons for a commonly occurring contexts while limiting the number of times the emoticon suggestions server is queried for the suggested emoticons. For some embodiments the emoticons cached in the local emoticon datastores and may have an expiration time after which the cached emoticons are invalidated or purged. Once an emoticon item in the cache has expired some embodiments resume querying the emoticon suggestion server for suggested emoticons.

The display module may display an input field such as a text field or a text box into which a user can input one or more segments character emoticons or graphical emoticons using the input module . Typically as segments and emoticons are entered into the input field they appear in the input field. As noted herein a segment may comprise one or more characters that represent a word a phrase a sentence fragment a sentence or a passage. As part of the input field the display module may display an input cursor which indicates where a user s character inputs will be next entered or where an emoticon may be next entered.

As noted herein various embodiments may suggest emoticons based on the current position of the input cursor within the input field the present segment content of the input user related information recipient related information user preferences or some combination thereof. Generally once one or more candidate emoticons have been identified for suggestion to the user e.g. based on the segment content of the input field the candidate emoticons may be suggested to the user via the display module . Specifically the display module may for the user s selection display the candidate emoticons at or near the current position of the input cursor in the input field. Depending on the embodiment the display module may display the candidate emoticons at or near the input field via a callout box.

For some embodiments the display module may form part of a digital device e.g. video display or video projector that may be responsible for displaying all graphical output from the digital device. In some embodiments the display module may display the input field as part of a graphical user interface GUI . For instance the input field may be a graphical component of an application operating on a digital device e.g. e mail client or an instant messaging application or may be a graphical representation of a document viewable or editable through an application operating on the digital device e.g. a text field of a web page shown through a web browser or a document shown through a word processor . Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the input field may vary in type and size from embodiment to embodiment.

The input module may receive character input from a user and enter such character input into the input field as received. As character input is entered into the input field the display module may update the input field with the character input. Additionally the input module may further receive entry selections for emoticons suggested in accordance with various embodiments. Generally upon selection the selected emoticons may be inserted at the current position of the input cursor in the input field. Depending on the embodiment the input module may comprise a physical input device that is externally coupled to a digital device or that is physically embedded into the digital device. Examples of physical input devices can include without limitation keyboards trackpads or computer mice. In some embodiments the input module may comprise a virtual input device such as a laser projected keyboard or an on screen keyboard which may be provided i.e. displayed to the user through the display module . In various embodiments as virtual input devices are employed such virtual input devices may be displayed at or near the input field to which segments will be inputted.

As further described in in some embodiments suggested emoticons may be presented to the user through the input module . For example where input module comprises a physical keyboard the physical keyboard may be configured to display suggested emoticons through the physical keyboard. For some embodiments the physical keyboard may display suggested emoticons by way of keys or buttons that comprise embedded displays e.g. LCD buttons or by way of a display embedded on a surface of the physical keyboard e.g. at the top of the keyboard . Depending on the embodiment the suggested emoticons may be displayed through the physical keyboard in color or in grayscale. As the suggested emoticons are displayed through the physical keyboard the user may select one or more of those suggested emoticons through keys or buttons of the physical keyboard.

In another example where the input module comprises an on screen keyboard like those found on some tablet computing devices and smartphone computing devices the appearance of the on screen keyboard may be reconfigured to display the suggested emoticons through the on screen keyboard. For some embodiments the appearance of the on screen keyboard may be reconfigured so that certain buttons of the on screen keyboard are replaced with suggested emoticons buttons or so that the on screen keyboard is augmented with additional suggested emoticon buttons. Once presented to through the on screen keyboard the suggested emoticon buttons may be used by a user to select from the one or more suggested emoticons.

The segment analysis module may analyze one or more segments present in the input field and determine a context for the segments analyzed. As described herein the context determined by the segment analysis module may be subsequently utilized when identifying candidate emoticons to be suggested to the user. In various embodiments the segment analysis module may analyze only segments of interest from the input field when determining the context of segments in the input field.

In some embodiments the segment analysis module first identifies segments of interest in the input field and then analyzes those segments of interest to determine a context. Generally the segments of interest are identified in relation to a current position of an input cursor in the input field. Additionally for some embodiments the segment analysis module may perform syntactical analysis of the segments currently present in the input field when identifying segments of interest.

Depending on the embodiment the segment analysis module may identify the segments of interest based on conditional or non conditional rules that guide the segment of interest identification process. An exemplary rule for identifying segments of interest may include identifying the sentence fragment or sentence immediately preceding the current position of the input cursor in the input field as a segment of interest. Another exemplary rule for identifying segments of interest may include identifying the sentence fragment or sentence immediately following the current position of the input cursor in the input field as a segment of interest. For some embodiments the rules may be utilized in conjunction with the syntactical analysis performed by the segment analysis module to determine the segments of interest.

Where more than one segment of interest is identified the segment analysis module may analyze the context of each of the segments of interest or may analyze the context of all but the least important segments of interest e.g. based on a weight system where certain segments of interest are of higher importance than others . In addition one or more rules may determine which of the segments of interests should be analyzed when two or more segments of interest are identified.

The segment analysis module may determine two or more contexts from the segments of interest. In such cases the emoticon suggestion system may search for candidate emoticons associated with all of the determined contexts or may only search for candidate emoticons that match one or more of the most important contexts e.g. determined based on rules .

To determine a context of one or more segments of interest the segment analysis module may semantically analyze the segments of interest present in the input field. Those of skill in the art will appreciate that the semantic analysis of segments may be performed in accordance with one or more techniques known in the art. When analyzing the context of one or more segments of interest the segment analysis module may determine a subtext or a meaning for the segments of interest. Based on the subtext or meaning identified for the segments of interest the emoticon suggestion system may identify one or more candidate emoticons for suggestion. The subtext of a segment of interest may identify a mood or an emotion for that segment of interest. Example subtexts for segments of interest may include without limitation happiness sadness indifference anger resentment contrition or excitement. The meaning for segments of the interest may identify an explicit meaning for segments of interest. For example where a segment of interest recites I just got a new job the segment analysis module may identify the meaning for the segment of interest as new job. 

It should be noted that for some embodiments the segment analysis module may identify and analyze segments of interest in at or near real time as the user adds characters or emoticons to or removes characters or emoticons from the input field using the input module .

The emoticon search module may search for one or more candidate emoticons based on an identified context e.g. subtext or meaning of a segment of interest. In some embodiments the emoticon search module may search the emoticon datastore for emoticons associated with the one or more contexts identified by the emoticon suggestion system . As described herein the emoticon datastore may comprise emoticons available for entry into the input field and associations between an emoticon and one or more contexts.

As noted herein the association between a given emoticon and a given context may comprise statistical usage of the given emoticon with that given context. The strength of the association between the given emoticon and the given context may be based on such statistical usage. Additionally the statistical usage may be based on the user s own usage of the given emoticon with the given content or may be based on usage of the given emoticon with the given content by a community of users e.g. usage of a given emoticon in a given context on a social networking website .

Generally the more usage of a given emoticon with a given context the stronger the association between that given emoticon and that given context. For some embodiments the strength of the association between an emoticon and a context may indicate the confidence in suggesting the emoticon for that context. The strength of the association may also be used to prioritize and present the one or more candidate emoticons from the highest strength to the lowest strength.

In some embodiments the search for one or more candidate emoticons by the emoticon search engine module may consider the strength of the association between the emoticon and the context. For example the emoticon search engine module may only identify an emoticon as a candidate emoticon if the strength of the association between the emoticon and the target context meets or exceeds a predetermined threshold. Additionally the emoticon search engine module may only identify an emoticon as a candidate emoticon when the strength of the association between the emoticon and the target context meets or exceeds a threshold relative to other potential candidate emoticons.

As noted herein in various embodiments the emoticon search module may further narrow the search for candidate emoticons by utilizing user preferences user related information recipient related information or some combination thereof. Examples of user preferences may include without limitation a preference to suggest user customized emoticons before other types of emoticons and a preference to ignore certain categories of emoticons e.g. suggest only emoticons that are age appropriate with respect to the user . Examples of recipient related information may include without limitation a user interest a user ethnicity a user religion a user geographic location a user age a user relational status and a user occupation. Examples of user related information may include without limitation a recipient s relation to a user a recipient interest a recipient ethnicity a recipient religion a recipient geographic location a recipient age a recipient relational status and a recipient occupation. In certain embodiments when searching for one or more candidate emoticons the emoticon search module may further consider the input field s limitations in receiving character or graphical emoticons and search for candidate emoticons accordingly.

The emoticon suggestion module may receive the one or more candidate emoticons located based on an identified context of a segment of interest and present the one or more candidate emoticons to the user for selection. As noted herein in some embodiments the emoticon suggestion module may use the display module to display for entry selection the one or more candidate emoticons at or near the current position of the input cursor in the input field. As also noted herein in various embodiments the emoticon suggestion module may use the input module to display for entry selection the one or more candidate emoticons through a physical input device or a virtual input device.

The emoticon selection module may receive from the user an entry selection for one or more candidate emoticons suggested to the user. In particular embodiments the emoticon selection module may receive the entry selection for the one or more candidate emoticons through the input module and the emoticon selection module may enter the one or more selected emoticons into the input field. As noted herein the emoticon selection module may enter the one or more selected emoticons at the current position of the input cursor. For some embodiments the emoticon selection module may enter the one or more selected emoticons into the input field by replacing segments or segments of interest within the input field with the one or more selected emoticons. Additionally some embodiments may enable the user to set the emoticon selection module e.g. using a user preference such that the module auto selects suggested emoticons based on certain guidelines. For instance the user may configure the emoticon selection module such that the first suggested emoticon is selected when an emoticon suggestion is made.

In some embodiments where associations between emoticons and contexts comprise statistical usage of such emoticons with such contexts the emoticon selection module may update the statistical usage information based on the entry selection received from the user. In particular the emoticon selection module may receive the entry selection of one or more candidate emoticons for a given context and update the statistical usage information stored between the selected candidate emoticons and their respective contexts of usage. Depending on the embodiment the emoticon selection module may update the statistical usage information on the emoticon datastore .

The emoticon datastore may comprise a library of emoticons available for suggestion by the emoticon suggestion system and associations between emoticons in the library and contexts e.g. subtexts and meanings . The emoticon search module may access the emoticon datastore when searching for one or more candidate emoticons that are associated with one or more particular contexts. As noted herein for some embodiments the emoticon datastore may comprise two or more associations between a given emoticon and a given context e.g. subtext or meaning . Additionally the association between a given emoticon and a given context may comprise statistical usage of the given emoticon with the given context. Such statistical usage may reflect the strength of the association between the emoticon and the context.

Emoticons stored on the emoticon datastore may include character emoticons graphical emoticons graphically animated emoticons and emoticons accompanied by sound. For some embodiments the emoticon datastore may further comprise user preferences user information or recipient information which may be utilized by the embodiments when identifying emoticons suitable for suggestion. For example the emoticon datastore may store a user preference that causes an embodiment to suggest user defined or user uploaded emoticons before suggesting emoticons generally available to any user. In another example the emoticon datastore may store a user preference that causes an embodiment to automatically insert the first emoticon suggested to the user by the embodiment or to automatically insert the suggested emoticon having the highest usage in a given context.

Those skilled in the art would appreciate that a variety of emoticon libraries and a variety of association between emoticons and contexts may be stored on the emoticon datastore .

It will be appreciated that a module may comprise software hardware firmware and or circuitry. In one example one or more software programs comprising instructions capable of being executable by a processor may perform one or more of the functions of the modules described herein. In another example circuitry may perform the same or similar functions. Alternative embodiments may comprise more less or functionally equivalent modules and still be within the scope of present embodiments. For example the functions of the various modules may be combined or divided differently. For example the functions of various modules may be distributed amongst one or more modules residing at an emoticon suggestion server and one or more modules reside at an emoticon suggestion client.

In step the segment analysis module may analyze the one or more segments to determine one or more target subtexts or one or more target meanings of the segments. The target subtexts and the target meanings of the segments provide for one or more contexts associated with the segments. Depending on the embodiment the segment analysis module may analyze only those segments which have been identified as segments of interest by the segment analysis module .

In step the emoticon search module may identify one or more candidate emoticons having an association with the one or more target contexts or one or more target meanings which may have been determined by the segment analysis module . In some embodiments the emoticon search module may identify one or more candidate emoticons in the emoticon datastore which have an association with the target subtexts or the target meanings. As noted herein the strength of each association may be based on statistical usage of a given emoticon with a given context and such strength may be taken into consideration as the emoticon search module identifies one or more candidate emoticons.

In step the emoticon suggestion module may present the one or more candidate emoticons to a user for entry selection at a current position of an input cursor in an input field. As described herein the input field and the input cursor therein may be displayed to the user through the display module . For some embodiments the emoticon suggestion module may present the one or more candidate emoticons to the user for entry selection using display module and may display the candidate emoticons at or near the current position of the input cursor in the input field. Additionally the emoticon suggestion module may present the one or more candidate emoticons to the user for entry selection through one or more input devices of the input module . For example the emoticon suggestion module may present the one or more candidate emoticons to the user through a physical input device such as a physical keyboard having a display or through a virtual input device such as an on screen keyboard.

In step the emoticon selection module may receive an entry selection from the user for one or more select emoticons from the one or more candidate emoticons. For some embodiments the emoticon selection module may receive the entry selection from the input module . Additionally upon receiving the entry selection the emoticon selection module may update the statistical usage information on the emoticon datastore for the one or more candidate emoticons based on the entry selection thereby strengthening or weakening the association between the candidate emoticons and particular contexts.

In step based on the entry selection the emoticon selection module may insert the one or more candidate emoticons into the text field at the current position of the input cursor received by the emoticon selection module . As noted herein in some embodiments entry of the candidate emoticons into the input field may involve replacing one or more segments in the input field with the selected emoticons.

The emoticon suggestion client may comprise a display module an input module a segment analysis module an emoticon search module a local emoticon datastore an emoticon suggestion module and an emoticon selection module . The emoticon suggestion server may comprise an emoticon search engine and a remote emoticon datastore .

At the emoticon suggestion client the display module may display an input field into which a user can input one or more segments character emoticons or graphical emoticons using the input module . Typically as segments and emoticons are entered into the input field they appear in the input field. With the input field the display module may display an input cursor in the input field where the input cursor indicates where a user s character inputs will be next entered or where an emoticon may be next entered.

Various embodiments may suggest emoticons based on a number of factors including for example the current position of the input cursor within the input field the present segment content of the input user related information recipient related information user preferences or some combination thereof. The candidate emoticons once identified may be suggested to the user via the display module . Specifically the display module may for the user s selection display the candidate emoticons at or near the current position of the input cursor in the input field. Depending on the embodiment the display module may display the candidate emoticons at or near the input field via a callout box.

Through the display module a digital device may display all graphical output from the digital device. In some embodiments the display module may display the input field as part of a graphical user interface GUI . Depending on the embodiment the input field may be a graphical component of an application operating on a digital device or may be a graphical representation of a document viewable or editable through an application operating on the digital device. It will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that the input field may vary in type and size from embodiment to embodiment.

The input module may receive character input from a user and enter such character input into the input field as received. As character input is entered into the input field the display module may update the input field with the character input. Additionally the input module may further receive entry selections for emoticons suggested in accordance with various embodiments. Generally upon selection the selected emoticons may be inserted at the current position of the input cursor in the input field. As noted herein the input module may comprise a physical input device that is externally coupled to a digital device or that is physical embedded into the digital device or a virtual input device such as an on screen keyboard which may be provided to the user through the display module . In various embodiments as virtual input devices are employed such virtual input devices may be displayed at or near the input field to which segments will be inputted.

For some embodiments suggested emoticons may be presented to the user through the input module . For example where input module comprises a physical keyboard the physical keyboard may be configured to display suggested emoticons through the physical keyboard. For some embodiments the physical keyboard may display suggested emoticons by way of keys or buttons that comprise embedded displays e.g. LCD buttons or by way of a display embedded on a surface of the physical keyboard e.g. at the top of the keyboard . The suggested emoticons may be displayed through the physical keyboard in color or in grayscale. As the suggested emoticons are displayed through the physical keyboard the user may select one or more of those suggested emoticons through keys or buttons of the physical keyboard.

In some embodiments where the input module comprises an on screen keyboard the appearance of the on screen keyboard may be reconfigured to display the suggested emoticons through the on screen keyboard. For example the appearance of the on screen keyboard may be reconfigured so that certain buttons of the on screen keyboard are replaced with suggested emoticons buttons or so that the on screen keyboard is augmented with additional suggested emoticon buttons. Once presented to through the on screen keyboard the suggested emoticon buttons may be used by a user to select from the one or more suggested emoticons.

The segment analysis module may analyze one or more segments present in the input field and determine a context for the segments analyzed. As described herein the context determined by the segment analysis module may be subsequently utilized when identifying candidate emoticons to be suggested to the user. In various embodiments the segment analysis module may first identify segments of interest in the input field and then only analyze those segments of interest when determining the context of segments in the input field.

In some embodiments the segment analysis module may perform syntactical analysis of the segments currently present in the input field when identifying segments of interest. Additionally the segment analysis module may identify the segments of interest based on conditional or non conditional rules that guide the segment of interest identification process.

To determine a context of one or more segments of interest the segment analysis module may semantically analyze the segments of interest present in the input field. When analyzing the context of one or more segments of interest the segment analysis module may determine a subtext or a meaning of the segments of interest. The subtext of a segment of the interest may identify a mood or an emotion for that segment of interest. Based on the subtext or meaning identified for the segments of interest the emoticon suggestion system may identify one or more candidate emoticons for suggestion.

It should be noted that for some embodiments the segment analysis module may identify and analyze segments of interest in at or near real time as the user adds characters or emoticons to or removes characters or emoticons from the input field using the input module .

The emoticon search module may search for one or more candidate emoticons based on an identified context e.g. subtext or meaning of a segment of interest. In some embodiments the emoticon search module may access the local emoticon datastore when searching for one or more candidate emoticons that are associated with one or more particular contexts.

Depending on the embodiment the local emoticon datastore may store user customized emoticons a user s favorite or preferred emoticons associations between emoticons stored on the local emoticon and contexts e.g. subtext or meaning user preferences with respect to identifying and suggestion emoticons user related information or recipient related information. Additionally local emoticon datastore may be utilized to locally cache previously suggested emoticons or suggested emoticons previously selected by the user.

In some embodiments the emoticon search module may utilize the emoticon suggestion server to search for and provide candidate emoticons to the emoticon suggestion client . For example the emoticon suggestion server may search for candidate emoticons on the remote emoticon datastore and provide resulting candidate emoticons to the emoticon search module on the emoticon suggestion client . The emoticon suggestion server may use the emoticon search engine to search for candidate emoticons on the remote emoticon datastore to retrieve candidate emoticons from the remote emoticon datastore and to provide the candidate emoticons to the emoticon search module .

The remote emoticon datastore may comprise a library of emoticons available for suggestion to the emoticon suggestion client . The remote emoticon datastore may further comprise associations between emoticons in the library and contexts. For certain embodiments the associations comprise statistical usage of the given emoticon of the emoticons in the library with the context. Generally such statistical usage may reflect the strength of the association between the emoticon and the context.

As noted herein emoticons stored on the remote emoticon datastore may include character emoticons graphical emoticons graphically animated emoticons and emoticons accompanied by sound. For some embodiments the remote emoticon datastore may further comprise user preferences user information or recipient information which may be utilized the embodiments when identifying emoticons suitable for suggestion. Those skilled in the art would appreciate that a variety of emoticon libraries and a variety of association between emoticons and contexts can be stored on the remote emoticon datastore .

The emoticon suggestion module may receive the one or more candidate emoticons located based on an identified context of a segment of interest and present the one or more candidate emoticons to the user for selection. As noted herein in some embodiments the emoticon suggestion module may use the display module to display for entry selection the one or more candidate emoticons at or near the current position of the input cursor in the input field. As also noted herein in various embodiments the emoticon suggestion module may use the input module to display for entry selection the one or more candidate emoticons through a physical input device or a virtual input device.

The emoticon selection module may receive from the user an entry selection for one or more candidate emoticons suggested to the user. In particular embodiments the emoticon selection module may receive the entry selection for the one or more candidate emoticons through the input module and the emoticon selection module may enter the one or more selected emoticons into the input field. The emoticon selection module may enter the one or more selected emoticons at the current position of the input cursor. Additionally the emoticon selection module may enter the one or more selected emoticons into the input field by replacing segments or segments of interest within the input field with the one or more selected emoticons. Some embodiments may enable the user to set the emoticon selection module e.g. using a user preference such that the module auto selects suggested emoticons based on certain guidelines. For instance the user may configure the emoticon selection module such that the first suggested emoticon is selected when an emoticon suggestion is made.

In some embodiments where associations between emoticons and contexts comprise statistical usage of such emoticons with such contexts the emoticon selection module may update the statistical usage information based on the entry selection received from the user. In particular the emoticon selection module may receive the entry selection of one or more candidate emoticons for a given context and update the statistical usage information stored between the selected candidate emoticons and their respective contexts of usage.

Depending on the embodiment the emoticon selection module may update the statistical usage information on the local emoticon datastore or on the remote emoticon datastore . For example if the one or more candidate emoticons selected through the emoticon selection module were provided from the emoticon suggestion server the statistical usage information for those candidate emoticons will be updated on the remote emoticon datastore . In another example if the one or more candidate emoticons selected through the emoticon selection module were provided from the local emoticon datastore the statistical usage information for those candidate emoticons will be updated on the locate emoticon datastore .

The user interface of the messaging application may comprise a conversation pane a message input field and a send button . For some embodiments the conversation pane may comprise messages submitted to the online chat. As such the conversation pane may include messages submitted to the online chat from others and messages submitted by the user through the user interface . The user may submit messages to the online chat using the message input field . In particular the user may enter a message into the message input field and press the send button when the user desires to submit the message to the online chat.

The message input field may comprise and may be configured to receive a message prepared by the user for submission to the online chat. The message input field may receive one or more segments from the user or may receive one or more emoticons entered in accordance with some embodiments. The message input field may further comprise an input cursor .

As the user prepares a message in the message input field various embodiments may suggest emoticons for entry at the current position of the input cursor . For example as the user writes It was so much fun in the message input field the embodiment may suggest a smiley face graphical emoticon for entry into the input field based on the embodiment s analysis of the segment of interest which recites so much fun. The embodiment may suggest the smiley face graphical emoticon based on an association between the smiley face graphical emoticon and the context of the segment of interest . Once the user selects the smiley face graphical emoticon the embodiment may enter the smiley face graphical emoticon into the message input field .

Likewise as the user writes Thanks again for showing me around your city in the message input field the embodiment may suggest a plurality of graphical emoticons based on the context analysis of the segment of interest . As noted herein the embodiment may present the suggested graphical emoticons by displaying the graphical emoticons in a callout box positioned at or near the current position of the input cursor . Based on analysis of the segment of interest which recites your city the embodiment may suggest the graphical emoticons which relate to cities.

The user interface of the messaging application may comprise a conversation pane a message input field an on screen keyboard and a send button . For some embodiments the conversation pane may comprise messages submitted to the online chat including messages submitted by the user through the user interface . The user may submit messages to the online chat using the message input field . Specifically the user may enter a message into the message input field using the on screen keyboard and may press the send button when the user desires to submit the message to the online chat.

The message input field may comprise and may be configured to receive a message prepared by the user for submission to the online chat. The message input field may receive one or more segments from the user through the on screen keyboard or may receive one or more emoticons as selected through the on screen keyboard . The message input field may further comprise an input cursor .

The on screen keyboard may comprise a QWERTY keyboard a button to hide the on screen keyboard from view e.g. when not in use and an emoticon menu . Through the emoticon menu the user may select one or more emoticons for entry into the message input field at the current position of the input cursor . The emoticon menu may comprise emoticons from a default emoticon library or a selection of emoticons suggested by the embodiment. A left select button and a right select button may allow the user to scroll and browse through the emoticons available for entry selection through the emoticon menu .

As the user prepares a message in the message input field various embodiments may suggest emoticons for entry at the current position of the input cursor . For instance as the user writes I never would have thought the football in the message input field the embodiment may suggest a football graphical emoticon for entry into the input field based on the embodiment s analysis of the segment of interest which recites football. The embodiment may suggest the football graphical emoticon based on an association between the football graphical emoticon and the context of the segment of interest . Once the user selects the football graphical emoticon the embodiment may enter the football graphical emoticon into the message input field .

Similarly as the user writes The 50 yard field goal in the message input field the embodiment may suggest a plurality of field goal graphical emoticons based on the context analysis of the segment of interest . In particular the embodiment may present the field goal graphical emoticons for entry selection by displaying the graphical emoticons in the emoticon menu which may be displayed as part of the on screen keyboard .

The memory system is any memory configured to store data. Some examples of the memory system are storage devices such as RAM or ROM. The memory system can comprise the ram cache. In various embodiments data is stored within the memory system . The data within the memory system may be cleared or ultimately transferred to the storage system .

The storage system is any non transitory storage configured to retrieve and store data. Some examples of the storage system are flash drives hard drives optical drives and or magnetic tape. In some embodiments the digital device includes a memory system in the form of RAM and a storage system in the form of flash data. Both the memory system and the storage system comprise computer readable media which may store instructions or programs that are executable by a computer processor including the processor .

The communication network interface com. network interface can be coupled to a network e.g. communication network via the link . The communication network interface may support communication over an Ethernet connection a serial connection a parallel connection or an ATA connection for example. The communication network interface may also support wireless communication e.g. 802.11alb gin WiMax . It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the communication network interface can support many wired and wireless standards.

The optional input output I O interface is any device that receives input from the user and output data. The optional display interface is any device that is configured to output graphics and data to a display. In one example the display interface is a graphics adapter. It will be appreciated that not all digital devices comprise either the I O interface or the display interface .

It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the hardware elements of the digital device are not limited to those depicted in . A digital device may comprise more or less hardware elements than those depicted. Further hardware elements may share functionality and still be within various embodiments described herein. In one example encoding and or decoding may be performed by the processor and or a co processor located on a GPU Le. Nvidia .

The above described functions and components can be comprised of instructions that are stored on a storage medium such as a computer readable medium. The instructions can be retrieved and executed by a processor. Some examples of instructions are software program code and firmware. Some examples of storage medium are memory devices tape disks integrated circuits and servers. The instructions are operational when executed by the processor to direct the processor to operate in accordance with some embodiments. Those skilled in the art are familiar with instructions processor s and storage medium.

Referring again to in various implementations the emoticon suggestion system suggests emoticons to users based on a detected sentiment in user generated text. For example the segment analysis module may analyze one or more segments present in the input field and determine a sentiment for the segments analyzed. In general the sentiment may relate to a user s subjective impressions e.g. feelings attitudes emotions and or opinions rather than facts. For example the user may be for or against something e.g. a product or a political view may like or dislike something may think something is better than something else etc. The emoticon suggestion system may detect such user sentiment and identify candidate emoticons for users based at least in part on the such sentiment.

In some instances the segment analysis module identifies segments of interest in the input field and then analyzes those segments of interest to determine a sentiment. Generally the segments of interest are identified in relation to a current position of an input cursor in the input field. Additionally for some implementations the segment analysis module may perform syntactical analysis of the segments currently present in the input field when identifying segments of interest.

Where more than one segment of interest is identified the segment analysis module may analyze the sentiment of each of the segments of interest or may analyze the sentiment of all but the least important segments of interest e.g. based on a weight system where certain segments of interest are of higher importance than others . In addition one or more rules may determine which of the segments of interests should be analyzed when two or more segments of interest are identified.

The segment analysis module may determine two or more sentiments e.g. angry and sad from the segments of interest. In such cases the emoticon suggestion system may search for candidate emoticons associated with all of the determined sentiments or may only search for candidate emoticons that match one or more of the most important sentiments e.g. determined based on rules .

To determine a sentiment of one or more segments of interest the segment analysis module may semantically analyze the segments of interest present in the input field. Those of skill in the art will appreciate that the semantic analysis of segments may be performed in accordance with one or more techniques known in the art. When analyzing the sentiment of one or more segments of interest the segment analysis module may identify a mood or an emotion for the segments of interest. Example sentiments for segments of interest may include without limitation happiness sadness indifference anger resentment contrition excitement approval disapproval agreement and disagreement.

To determine a sentiment of one or more segments of interest the segment analysis module may perform sentiment analysis or opinion mining. In general sentiment analysis refers to the use of text analysis statistics computation linguistics and or natural language processing to locate and analyze subjective information in one or more segments of interest. A goal of sentiment analysis is to identify an attitude of the writer or user for example with respect to something e.g. a topic or issue in a segment of interest. The attitude may be the user s emotional or affective state the user s intended emotional effect or the user s judgment or evaluation of a topic or issue.

In certain instances sentiment analysis is used to identify the polarity of a text segment i.e. whether the expressed opinion in the text is positive negative or neutral . The sentiment analysis may utilize classifiers such as Max Entropy and or support vector machines SVM which may or may not utilize a neutral class.

In various implementations the segment analysis module monitors and reviews text segments as they are entered by a user to evaluate the user s sentiment in real time or near real time. As a simple example when a user enters a message that includes the phrase I feel happy today the segment analysis module may recognize that the user is likely happy and propose an appropriate emoticon e.g. a smiley face to the user for insertion into the text. Likewise when a enters a message that includes the phrase I feel upset the segment analysis module may recognize that the user is sad or angry and propose an appropriate emoticon e.g. a sad or angry face to the user for insertion into the text.

Further as the user enters a message the words and segments may be translated into one or more languages used by the intended recipients of the message. Translating the message e.g. in real time may facilitate the sentiment analysis of the message. For example the segment analysis module may be able to assess sentiment more easily in one language e.g. English than in another language e.g. Russian .

Some implementations of sentiment analysis utilize a scaling system in which segments or terms commonly associated with negative neutral or positive sentiment are associated with a number on a scale e.g. 10 to 10 ranging from most negative to most positive. For example the segment analysis module may access or include a library of terms associated with sentiment with each term assigned a numerical value on the scale. When the user enters a term with a high positive value e.g. love the segment analysis module will recognize that the user s sentiment is likely positive. Likewise when a user enters a term with a negative value e.g. hate or a neutral value e.g. indifferent the segment analysis module will recognize that the user s sentiment is likely negative or neutral respectively. In certain instances when more than one sentiment is detected in a segment the segment analysis module may add up the numerical values for the terms in the segment to arrive at a total numerical value for the segment. The total numerical value may be used to classify the segment as being for example either negative neutral or positive. In some instances when a score for a segment is either highly negative or highly positive the segment analysis module may recognize that the user sentiment in the segment is extreme and may identify candidate emoticons associated with the extreme sentiment for insertion by the user.

In various embodiments when natural language processing is used to analyze a segment of interest the segment analysis module may review text segments to identify concepts or subjects associated with user sentiment. For example when the user inserts one or more words indicating that sentiment is positive the segment analysis module may search other portions of text e.g. before or after the sentiment words to determine why the user sentiment is positive. The segment analysis module may identify for example that the positive user sentiment is associated with a particular concept e.g. a person or object described elsewhere in the text segment. In such an instance the segment analysis module may associate the user sentiment with the concept. The concept may be given a score indicating a relationship between the user sentiment and the concept.

In some situations the subjectivity objectivity of one or more segments of interest is identified which may involve classifying a given text e.g. a segment of interest as being either objective or subjective. Because the subjectivity of segments may depend on the context and because an objective work may include subjective sentences e.g. insertion of another person s opinion this task may be more challenging that polarity classification. In some embodiments objective segments are ignored before the polarity or sentiment of remaining text is classified.

Some implementations of the segment analysis module utilize a feature aspect based sentiment analysis in which opinions or sentiments are determined for different aspects or features of entities e.g. a car a business or an electronic item . Such an analysis may involve several sub problems such as identifying entities extracting features aspects for the entities and classifying any sentiment on the features aspects as being positive negative or neutral.

Referring to in certain implementations a method is provided for suggesting and inserting emoticons corresponding to detected sentiment in a text message. The method includes determining step a sentiment of text in a text field e.g. as a user is inputting text in the text field. The text e.g. a segment a sentence fragment or other portion of text is selected step from the text field preferably in proximity to a current position of an input cursor in the text field. One or more candidate emoticons are identified step wherein each candidate emoticon is associated with a respective score e.g. a numerical value indicating relevance of the candidate emoticon to the text and the sentiment. The candidate emoticons are identified based on at least historical user selections of emoticons for insertion in proximity to other text which may or may not be the same as the selected text having a respective sentiment. For example the method may include reviewing a history of emoticons selected by users and identifying candidate emoticons based on emoticons that were selected previously by users for use with similar text and or sentiment as the selected text. Such previously selected emoticons may have higher respective scores than other emoticons that have not been previously selected. One or more candidate emoticons that have respective highest scores are then provided step for user selection. In some instances candidate emoticons having the highest scores may be associated with the sentiment of the selected text and or may have been previously selected for insertion into text having a similar sentiment. The emoticons may be provided e.g. displayed to the user according to a respective score for each emoticon such that emoticons with higher scores are presented first e.g. in a list . A selection from the user of one or more of the provided emoticons is then received step and the one or more selected emoticons is inserted into the text field at the current position of the input cursor or in proximity to the current position.

In some implementations candidate emoticons are determined by calculating a score that is based at least in part on a difference between natural language of the selected text and natural language of the text associated with a prior user selection of the candidate emoticon. For example if the natural languages are the same the candidate emoticon can be given a higher score. Likewise if the selected text and the text associated with a prior user selection of the candidate emoticon include the same words in the same order the candidate emoticon can be given a higher score.

In general certain techniques may be used to determine differences between the selected text and previous text segments or messages. For example in some instances a Hamming distance is calculated for the selected text and a previous text segment. In general the Hamming distance provides an indication of the minimum number of changes required to transform the selected text into the previous text segment. Each change may include for example a character substitution a character deletion and or a character addition. For strings of equal length the Hamming distance may be the number of positions at which the corresponding characters or symbols are different. In general when the difference between the selected text and a previous text segment is small a score associated with an emoticon used in the previous text segment or message may be high. A high score indicates the user will likely want to consider the emoticon for insertion into the current selected text or message.

In some implementations a score for a candidate emoticon is based on a combination of one or more individual scores which may be weighted. For example the score may be based on a combination e.g. a weighted sum of separate scores for sentiment similarity text similarity e.g. Hamming distance language similarity and so on. Such an approach allows more than one characteristic of a text segment or message to be considered when computing the score. The approach may also allow some characteristics e.g. sentiment to be weighted more heavily than other characteristics e.g. text similarity when computing the score. The weights for the characteristics may be chosen for example by a user and or a provider of the systems and methods described herein. This may allow users to receive emoticon suggestions that are based more heavily on some characteristics e.g. sentiment rather than other characteristics e.g. text similarity . In one example the score for a candidate emoticon is based at least in part on the number of times the candidate emoticon has been used for a given text segment or message e.g. for a given word or sequence of words . When a particular candidate emoticon has been used more often than others e.g. by a user a group of users or all users for the given text the score for the candidate emoticon may be high.

In various instances the emoticon suggestion system identifies candidate emoticons based at least partially on a preference of the user user related information and or recipient related information. For example the user may specify a preference to use emoticons that he or she has used previously or that are of a certain type e.g. facial expressions . Information about the user e.g. age gender educational background career hobbies etc. may also be used to identify candidate emoticons that are consistent with some aspect of the user and that the user would therefore be more likely to use. For example a medical doctor may be more inclined to use emoticons related to the practice of medicine. As a further consideration the emoticon suggestion system may consider the target audience for the user s message and identify candidate emoticons based on any anticipated preferences that the audience may have. For example if a message is directed to a person who prefers emoticons of a certain color e.g. pink the systems and methods may identify candidate emoticons that include that particular color.

Referring to in certain embodiments a user defined emoticon system is provided that allows users to define e.g. draw emoticons share user defined emoticons with other users receive credit for sharing user defined emoticons and receive information regarding the use of the user defined emoticons by others. A user defined emoticon may include a visual representation e.g. a graphical image and be associated with a respective natural language and or respective text.

The user defined emoticon system includes an emoticon submission module that enables a user to submit a user defined emoticon. The emoticon submission module may include a drawing tool that allows a user to draw or otherwise create an image for the emoticon. The user may propose a natural language meaning for the emoticon and or a suggested use for the emoticon e.g. for use in conjunction with hunger . In some instances a user may create an emoticon but choose to limit the emoticon for personal use rather than submitting the emoticon for use by other users. The user defined emoticon system may enable users to specify whether user defined emoticons are to be retained for personal use only i.e. private emoticons or shared with other users i.e. public emoticons .

The user defined emoticon system also includes an emoticon credit module that allows users to receive credit for sharing their user defined emoticons with other users. For example the user defined emoticon system and or the emoticon credit module may interact with and or be accessible from an electronic game or video game e.g. a massively multiplayer online game . When a user creates a new emoticon and submits the emoticon for use by other users the emoticon credit module may provide a credit to an account of the user. For example in exchange for submitting the user defined emoticon the user may receive points virtual currency and or other virtual goods for use in the video game.

After a user defined emoticon has been submitted by a user a statistics module allows the user to track the use of the emoticon by others. The statistics module may inform the user about the number of times the emoticon has been used the last time the emoticon was used and the various languages with which the emoticon has been used. Based on the extent of use of the emoticon by others the user s account may receive additional credit. Such credits may encourage users to create and share high quality emoticons that others will want to use multiple times.

The user defined emoticon system may also utilize or include a software development kit module that facilitates the creation of applications for generating and submitting user defined emoticons crediting user accounts providing statistics and providing emoticon suggestions as described herein. For example the software development kit module may provide an application programming interface for initiating the identification of candidate emoticons.

Advantageously the user defined emoticon system facilitates the creation and distribution of emoticons through crowd sourcing. As users create and submit new user defined emoticons a library of available emoticons increases in size and specificity. This enables the emoticon suggestion system to provide users with a wide variety of emoticons that more easily satisfy personal preferences of users and are more suitable for use in specific circumstances. For example when a user enters the text red house the user may wish to insert an emoticon of a red house rather than an emoticon of a house having a different color.

The creation and distribution of emoticons through crowd sourcing also allows user defined emoticons and other emoticons to be tested by users thereby identifying emoticons that are more popular or of higher quality and therefore more likely to be used. In certain instances emoticons that are popular are more likely to be suggested to the user for insertion into a text message. For example as a user is entering a text message the systems and methods described herein may suggest emoticons to the user that have proven to be popular by other users.

The systems and methods may track the popularity of emoticons according specific words and languages. For example when a user enters a particular word in a message the user defined emoticon system may identify the emoticons that are popular for that particular word and then suggest those emoticons to the user. For the same word translated to a different language the popular emoticons may be different. The set of popular emoticons suggested to the user may therefore depend on the particular language being used by the user and or a recipient of the message.

In one embodiment a user has a personalized bank of preferred emoticons that may be suggested more often to the user than other emoticons e.g. developed through crowd sourcing. The personalized bank of preferred emoticons may include emoticons that have been used in one or more prior instances by the user. The personalized bank of preferred emoticons may be generated and or augmented automatically each time the user selects an emoticon for insertion into a message. In some implementations users may manually select emoticons for inclusion into their personalized bank of preferred emoticons.

In certain implementations the systems and methods facilitate the creation submission and use of emoticons associated with companies brands products and or services. For example a company may create and submit emoticons that use or include the company s trademarks service marks and or logos. When a user enters the name of the company or the company s products or services into a message the emoticon suggestion system may automatically suggest one or more of the company s emoticons to the user for insertion into the message. For example when a user enters a message that includes the word iPhone the emoticon suggestion system may suggest emoticons to the user that show an image of an IPHONE or a logo or trademark for Apple Inc. the manufacturer of the IPHONE. When the user selects a company emoticon for insertion in the message the emoticon credit module may credit the user s account. Alternatively or additionally insertion and or submission of a company emoticon may cause the emoticon credit module to transfer funds from the company to the owners or operators of the emoticon suggestion system . In such instances the funds may represent an advertising fee for presenting the company emoticon in the message. In certain instances insertion of a company s emoticons may occur automatically for example whenever a user creates a message that includes a reference to the company s name products services trademarks or service marks.

Companies that use or otherwise interact with the systems and methods described herein may have at least partial control over the emoticons that are available for insertion by users. For example when a user enters the name of a company into a message the emoticon suggestion system may present to the user only emoticons that have been approved by the company. In some instances the user may be able to insert only an approved company logo or trademark next to the name of the company or next to the names of the company s products and services. In general the emoticons inserted and submitted into user messages may be small e.g. the approximate size of text in a message or large e.g. occupying several lines of text or more and may be animated or non animated.

Various embodiments are described herein as examples. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications may be made and other embodiments can be used without departing from the broader scope of the present invention s . Therefore these and other variations upon the exemplary embodiments are intended to be covered by the present invention s .

