---

title: Generating and using temporal metadata partitions
abstract: Concepts and technologies are disclosed herein for generating and using temporal metadata partitions. Metadata can be stored in temporal metadata partitions based upon a time range included in the metadata. Furthermore, metadata can be stored in multiple temporal metadata partitions to which the metadata is relevant. As such, metadata can be stored in manner that allows event data to be understood in the context of temporally accurate and/or relevant metadata. Functionality for executing queries of event data and providing results in view of metadata, as well as the merging of multiple temporal metadata partitions also are disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09633079&OS=09633079&RS=09633079
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, L.P.
number: 09633079
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151215
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 567 295 filed on Dec. 11 2014 entitled Generating and Using Temporal Metadata Partitions now U.S. Pat. No. 9 235 628 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety and which is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 693 597 filed on Dec. 4 2012 entitled Generating and Using Temporal Metadata Partitions now U.S. Pat. No. 8 943 107 which is incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

This application relates generally to data management. More specifically the disclosure provided herein relates to generating and using temporal metadata partitions.

Some communications networks collect and analyze event data from various sources and or for various purposes. The event data may relate to various network functions elements devices and or systems. Thus the event data can include for example network traffic device or system utilization information usage statistics packet inspection information or the like.

Some types of data may not include any indication of a context or frame of reference for the collected and or associated data points. For example router utilization data may indicate a number of ports in use at a time at which the data is collected or transmitted. Such data may or may not be useful without knowing a capacity of the router for example. Thus some networks may store data that defines capacities of devices and or other information that in conjunction with the event data can be used to determine percentage utilization or other statistics or information.

Because modern communication networks have grown exponentially over the past several years the amount of data collected and analyzed as well as the frequency with which data may be updated has increased. Furthermore some network operators have sought to rapidly expand networks to increase and or to improve performance. Thus some information used to understand event data may be outdated and or otherwise useless at any particular time.

Similarly some network operators or other data analysis entities may use historical data to understand growth and or use of a network. For example router utilization over time may be considered to determine when a router is to be updated or for other purposes. Because the data describing the capacity of the router may be updated when the capacity of the router changes historical event data may be misunderstood. In particular the historical event data may be interpreted in view of the data describing a current capacity of the router.

The present disclosure is directed to generating and using temporal metadata partitions. A server computer may execute a data management application that is configured to analyze metadata received at the server computer as part of a data stream generated by a data source. The metadata may be generated by a same data source that generates event data though this is not necessarily the case. The event data can include data points or data values and timestamps reflecting a time at which the event data is captured and or transmitted. The metadata can include a time range that defines times between which a data value associated with the metadata applies. Thus for example metadata describing a router capacity may define a value corresponding to the capacity and a time range over which the capacity applies. The time range can be defined as being bound by a lower time limit and an upper time limit an open ended time range that begins with a lower time limit and or an open ended time range that ends with an upper time limit.

The data management application can analyze the incoming metadata to identify the time range and to generate temporal metadata partitions that store the metadata associated with a particular time or ranges of time included in the time range. According to various embodiments of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein the metadata can be saved to multiple temporal metadata partitions that are encompassed or overlapped by the time range included in the metadata. Thus for example metadata defining a time range from January March may be included in temporal metadata partitions for January February and March. It should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The data management application also can be configured to consider the metadata stored in the temporal metadata partitions at query time and or at other times. When a query is received the data management application can determine a time associated with the query and or execute the query against event data and determine a time based upon one or more event data query results. The data management application can identify one or more temporal metadata partitions that apply to the determined time and interpret the event data in view of the metadata. Thus event data associated with a particular time can be interpreted in view of metadata associated with that particular time. The data management application also can be configured to merge temporal metadata partitions to reduce storage space associated with the metadata. The temporal metadata partitions can be merged by merging values or time ranges and storing the merged temporal metadata partitions in the data store.

According to one aspect of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein a method is disclosed. The method can include obtaining metadata at a server computer executing a data management application. The metadata can include a data value and a time range associated with the data value. The method also can include analyzing by the server computer the time range to identify a temporal metadata partition in which the metadata is to be stored and storing by the server computer the metadata in the temporal metadata partition.

In some embodiments the method also can include determining based upon the time range if the metadata is to be stored in a further temporal metadata partition and in response to a determination that the metadata is to be stored in the further temporal metadata partition storing the metadata in the further temporal metadata partition. The metadata can be included in a data stream generated by a data source. In some embodiments the data stream can include the metadata and event data and the metadata can define a context of the event data. The method also can include receiving a query executing the query against event data stored in a temporal data partition to obtain an event data query result identifying in the event data query result a timestamp and retrieving the metadata from a relevant temporal metadata partition based upon the timestamp. The method also can include computing results based upon the metadata and the event data and outputting the results.

In some embodiments the metadata can provide a context of the event data and computing the results can include selecting event data based at least partially upon the metadata. The method also can include determining based upon the time range that the metadata is to be stored in a further temporal metadata partition storing the metadata in the further temporal metadata partition determining that the temporal metadata partition and the further temporal metadata partition are to be merged and merging the temporal metadata partition and the further temporal metadata partition. The method also can include determining that the temporal metadata partition and the further temporal metadata partition are to be merged by selecting the temporal metadata partition and identifying the further temporal metadata partition as a related temporal metadata partition. The method also can include merging the temporal metadata partition and the further temporal metadata partition by merging a time range of the temporal metadata partition with a further time range of the further temporal metadata partition to generate a merged temporal metadata partition having a merged time range and a data value and storing the merged temporal metadata partition.

According to another aspect of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein a system is disclosed. The system can include a processor and a memory storing computer executable instructions. When the computer executable instructions are executed by the processor the processor can perform operations including obtaining metadata including a data value and a time range associated with the data value analyzing the time range to identify a temporal metadata partition in which the metadata is to be stored determining based upon the time range that the metadata is to be stored in a further temporal metadata partition storing the metadata in a further temporal metadata partition and storing the metadata in the temporal metadata partition.

In some embodiments the computer executable instructions when executed by the processor can cause the processor to perform operations that can further include receiving a query executing the query against event data stored in a temporal data partition to obtain an event data query result identifying in the event data query result a timestamp and retrieving the metadata from a relevant temporal metadata partition based upon the timestamp. The computer executable instructions when executed by the processor can further cause the processor to perform operations that include computing results based upon the metadata and the event data and outputting the results. The computer executable instructions when executed by the processor can cause the processor to perform operations that include determining that the temporal metadata partition and the further temporal metadata partition are to be merged and merging the temporal metadata partition and the further temporal metadata partition.

In some embodiments the computer executable instructions when executed by the processor can cause the processor to perform operations that include determining that the temporal metadata partition and the further temporal metadata partition are to be merged by selecting the temporal metadata partition and identifying the further temporal metadata partition as a related temporal metadata partition. The computer executable instructions when executed by the processor also can cause the processor to perform operations that include merging the temporal metadata partition and the further temporal metadata partition by merging a time range of the temporal metadata partition with a further time range of the further temporal metadata partition to generate a merged temporal metadata partition having a merged time range and a data value and storing the merged temporal metadata partition.

According to yet another aspect a computer storage medium is disclosed. The computer storage medium can have computer executable instructions stored thereon. The computer executable instructions when executed by a processor can cause the processor to perform operations including obtaining metadata including a data value and a time range associated with the data value analyzing the time range to identify a temporal metadata partition in which the metadata is to be stored determining based upon the time range that the metadata is to be stored in a further temporal metadata partition storing the metadata in a further temporal metadata partition and storing the metadata in the temporal metadata partition.

In some embodiments the computer executable instructions when executed by the processor can cause the processor to perform operations further including receiving a query executing the query against event data stored in a temporal data partition to obtain an event data query result identifying in the event data query result a timestamp and retrieving the metadata from a relevant temporal metadata partition based upon the timestamp. The computer executable instructions when executed by the processor can cause the processor to perform operations further including determining that the temporal metadata partition and the further temporal metadata partition are to be merged and merging the temporal metadata partition and the further temporal metadata partition.

In some embodiments the computer executable instructions when executed by the processor can cause the processor to perform operations further including determining that the temporal metadata partition and the further temporal metadata partition are to be merged by selecting the temporal metadata partition and identifying the further temporal metadata partition as a related temporal metadata partition. The computer executable instructions when executed by the processor can cause the processor to perform operations further including merging the temporal metadata partition and the further temporal metadata partition by merging a time range of the temporal metadata partition with a further time range of the further temporal metadata partition to generate a merged temporal metadata partition having a merged time range and a data value and storing the merged temporal metadata partition. In some embodiments the metadata can be included in a data stream generated by a data source the data stream can include the metadata and event data the metadata can define a context of the event data and the temporal metadata partitions can be stored at a distributed database.

Other systems methods and or computer program products according to embodiments will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon review of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods and or computer program products be included within this description be within the scope of this disclosure.

The following detailed description is directed to generating and using temporal metadata partitions. A server computer can execute a data management application. The data management application can be configured to analyze metadata received at the server computer as part of a data stream generated by a data source. The data stream also can include event data that can include data points and timestamps reflecting one or more times at which the event data is captured and or transmitted. The metadata can include a time range that defines times between which a data value included in the metadata applies. The time range can be defined as being bound by a lower time limit and an upper time limit. The time range also can be defined as an open ended time range having only a lower time limit or only an upper time limit.

The data management application can analyze the metadata to identify a time range associated with the metadata. The data management application can store the metadata in one or more temporal metadata partitions corresponding to a particular time times or time ranges included in the time range of the metadata. The metadata can be stored in multiple temporal metadata partitions that overlap the time range included in the metadata. The data management application also can be configured to merge temporal metadata partitions to reduce storage space associated with the metadata. The temporal metadata partitions can be merged by merging values or time ranges and storing the merged temporal metadata partitions in the data store.

The data management application also can use the metadata stored in the temporal metadata partitions at query time and or at other times. When a query is received the data management application can determine a time associated with the query and or execute the query against event data and determine a time based upon one or more event data query results. The data management application can identify one or more temporal metadata partitions that apply to the determined time and interpret the event data in view of the metadata. As such embodiments of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein can be used to allow event data to be interpreted and or analyzed in view of temporally appropriate and or otherwise relevant metadata.

While the subject matter described herein is presented in the general context of program modules that execute in conjunction with the execution of an operating system and application programs on a computer system those skilled in the art will recognize that other implementations may be performed in combination with other types of program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures and other types of structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the subject matter described herein may be practiced with other computer system configurations including hand held devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and the like.

Referring now to aspects of an operating environment for various embodiments of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein for generating and using temporal metadata partitions will be described according to an illustrative embodiment. The operating environment shown in includes a computing device such as a server computer server computer . While referred to herein as a server computer it should be understood that in various embodiments of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein the functionality of the server computer can be provided by other computing systems such as for example desktop computers laptop computers other computing systems combinations thereof or the like. Thus the example embodiments of the server computer described herein as a web server or other server computer are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The server computer can be configured to operate in communication with and or as part of a communications network network . Thus communications described herein as occurring with or via the server computer should be understood as being capable of occurring via the network . The server computer can execute an operating system and one or more application programs such as for example a data management application and or other application programs not illustrated . The operating system can include a computer program for controlling the operation of the server computer . The data management application can include an executable program configured to execute on top of the operating system to provide the functionality described herein for generating and using temporal data partitions.

The data management application can be configured to obtain and manage storage of data associated with one or more streams of data data streams . The data streams can be received or otherwise obtained from one or more data sources A N hereinafter collectively and or generically referred to as data sources . As shown in the data streams can include event data and metadata . The event data and the metadata are described in more detail below.

According to various embodiments the data sources can correspond to one or more real or virtual data storage devices server computers network reporting devices or systems network analytics devices traffic monitors deep packet inspection DPI devices or systems combinations thereof or the like. As such the event data included in the data streams can correspond to various types of streaming data including but not limited to network statistics stored data media streams packet inspection information user information traffic information device output information analytics performance statistics device utilization and or availability information combinations thereof or the like.

The metadata included in the data streams can be used to provide context for the event data . Thus for example if the event data corresponds to a router utilization such as a number of occupied ports the metadata can correspond to an indication of a number of available ports associated with the router. Thus a percent utilization of the router can be computed in some embodiments by analyzing the event data in light of the metadata . This and other aspects of using the metadata are described in additional detail below. Because the data sources their respective data streams the event data and or the metadata can include almost any type of sources and or types of data it should be understood that the above examples are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

As shown in the event data included in the data streams can include data points and timestamps. Similarly the metadata included in the data streams can include one or more records . A single record is shown in to simplify illustration and description of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein and not to limit the disclosure in any way. In light of the above it should be understood that the illustrated record can include multiple records . As such the description herein refers to multiple records and or references a single record as a generic representation thereof.

One or more records can include a data value or other data point data value and a time range with which the data value is associated. According to various embodiments though not illustrated in the time range of the records can be defined by a lower time limit tand an upper time limit t though this is not necessarily the case. As such the time range of the records can be denoted as t t . In some instances the time ranges may include and or may be denoted as having a only lower time limit tor only an upper time limit t. Thus a time range of the records can indicate that a particular value of the records applies at any time after a particular lower time limit tfor records having only a lower time limit t. Similarly a time range can indicate a particular value as applying at any time before a particular upper time limit tfor records having only an upper time limit t. Thus time ranges can also be denoted as t and or t in addition to or instead of t t . It should be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The data value of the record can include an integer value a string a Boolean value such as 0 1 true false yes no or the like a function combinations thereof or the like. As such the record can by including the data value and the time range represent a data value that applies over a particular temporal limitation such as the time range. As mentioned above the metadata can be used by the server computer to provide context for the event data . Thus the time range and the data value can be used by the server computer to interpret event data as will be explained in more detail below.

The data management application can be configured to obtain the event data the metadata and or other data associated with the data streams . The server computer also can be configured to store the event data or the metadata or to generate instructions for other devices or software to store the event data and or the metadata in a data storage device such as for example the data store . According to various embodiments of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein the functionality of the data store can be provided by one or more databases server computers hard disk drives memory devices desktop computers laptop computers other computing devices other data storage devices combinations thereof or the like. It should be understood that the data store also can include or can be provided by a real or virtual data storage device and or a collection of multiple data storage devices. For purposes of illustrating the concepts and technologies disclosed herein the functionality of the data store is described herein as being provided by a server computer hosting a database. In view of the above described contemplated embodiments it should be understood that this example of the data store is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

As shown in the data management application can be configured to obtain the event data and the metadata though not necessarily at the same time and to store these and or other data as tables records and or other types of data or data structures. In the illustrated embodiment the data management application can be configured to store the event data in one or more temporal data partitions A N hereinafter collectively and or generically referred to as temporal data partitions . Thus the temporal data partitions can include one or more instances of data extracted from or included in the event data that can include a data point and a timestamp. Because the event data can be stored in additional and or alternative formats it should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The data management application also can be configured to store the metadata in one or more temporal metadata partitions A N hereinafter collectively and or generically referred to as temporal metadata partitions . Although not visible in the metadata stored in the temporal metadata partitions can include one or more records such as for example the record . Thus the metadata stored in the temporal metadata partitions can include data having data values and time ranges. The storage of the metadata in the temporal metadata partitions is described in additional detail below particularly with reference to .

The data management application also can be configured to communicate with one or more computing devices such as for example the user device shown in to satisfy one or more request. According to various embodiments for example the user device can generate one or more queries relating to the event data . As will be explained in more detail herein the data management application can be configured to receive the queries and to execute the queries against the event data . The data management application also can be configured to consider the metadata when executing the queries against the event data . The metadata can be considered by the data management application to impart meaning to one or more results obtained by the data management application during execution of the queries .

In particular as explained above the event data may correspond for example to raw measurements or other types of data that may lack context for interpretations. Thus for example if the event data corresponds to router utilization statistics such as a number of occupied ports the event data may provide a raw number such as eighty two thousand or the like. The event data may not however provide context for that information such as for example a total number of available ports at the router. Thus the data management application may be unable to interpret the event data without some metadata which can be used to represent for example the total number of available ports at the router.

Another complication may be experienced with regard to the lack of context. In particular metadata such as the metadata described herein may be stored as a table or other data structure and may be used to interpret the event data . The metadata however may not be stored in a temporal partition that can represent changes to the metadata over time. Thus for example if the router at issue in the above example had a total capacity of one thousand ports the metadata may represent this capacity. If however the router is updated at some time from having a capacity of one thousand ports to having a capacity of two thousand ports the metadata may be updated as well. Thus if a user queries the event data for router capacity information at some time prior to the updating of the router the metadata indicating a capacity of two thousand ports may be used to interpret the event data although the update may not yet have occurred when the considered event data was captured.

To address this and other considerations embodiments of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein support storage of the metadata in temporal metadata partitions . The temporal metadata partitions can be relevant to particular times and or time ranges and metadata can be stored in the temporal metadata partitions based upon time ranges included in records of the metadata . Thus for example the metadata can be stored in a number of temporal metadata partitions to which the metadata is relevant. In the illustrated embodiment of a first temporal metadata partition A can store the metadata as being relevant to a first time or time range and an nth temporal metadata partition N can store the same metadata as being relevant to an nth time or time range. Thus metadata can be stored to any number of temporal metadata partitions that include times or time ranges to which the metadata applies.

In an embodiment of the data management application metadata is obtained at the server computer and analyzed by the data management application to identify a time range of the metadata . The data management application identifies a temporal metadata partition to which the time range of the metadata corresponds and copies the metadata to the identified temporal metadata partition . The data management application can repeat these operations to store the metadata into a number of temporal metadata partitions that overlap the time range of the metadata . Thus for example if the temporal metadata partitions are divided into time ranges covering one month and if the metadata includes a time range of one year the metadata can be copied into twelve temporal metadata partitions one for each month. Because other time ranges and or time increments of the metadata and or the temporal metadata partitions are possible and are contemplated it should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

Embodiments of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein also support merging of temporal metadata partitions to save or create storage space at the data store . The data management application can be configured to select a temporal metadata partition and to identify one or more related temporal metadata partitions . It can be appreciated that multiple temporal metadata partitions may be related based upon time ranges data values and or other aspects of the metadata stored by the temporal metadata partitions . Thus the data management application can identify related temporal metadata partitions and merge the temporal metadata partitions .

If the temporal metadata partitions contain metadata having similar or identical data values but disparate time ranges the temporal metadata partitions can be merged to reflect the same data value s and a combined time range that includes or encompasses multiple time ranges associated with the multiple temporal metadata partitions . Additionally or alternatively if the time ranges of the temporal metadata partitions are the same or similar but the data values are disparate the data management application can be configured to merge the temporal metadata partitions by combining the data values if applicable and reflecting the same time range s . Additional details of merging temporal metadata partitions are set forth below with reference to .

Turning now to aspects of a method for storing metadata in multiple temporal metadata partitions will be described in detail according to an illustrative embodiment. It should be understood that the operations of the methods disclosed herein are not necessarily presented in any particular order and that performance of some or all of the operations in an alternative order s is possible and is contemplated. The operations have been presented in the demonstrated order for ease of description and illustration. Operations may be added omitted and or performed simultaneously without departing from the scope of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein.

It also should be understood that the methods disclosed herein can be ended at any time and need not be performed in its entirety. Some or all operations of the methods and or substantially equivalent operations can be performed by execution of computer readable instructions included on a computer storage media as defined herein. The term computer readable instructions and variants thereof as used herein is used expansively to include routines applications application modules program modules programs components data structures algorithms and the like. Computer readable instructions can be implemented on various system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor systems minicomputers mainframe computers personal computers hand held computing devices microprocessor based programmable consumer electronics combinations thereof and the like.

Thus it should be appreciated that the logical operations described herein are implemented 1 as a sequence of computer implemented acts or program modules running on a computing system and or 2 as interconnected machine logic circuits or circuit modules within the computing system. The implementation is a matter of choice dependent on the performance and other requirements of the computing system. Accordingly the logical operations described herein are referred to variously as states operations structural devices acts or modules. These states operations structural devices acts and modules may be implemented in software in firmware in special purpose digital logic and any combination thereof. As used herein the phrase cause a processor to perform operations and variants thereof is used to refer to causing a processor of a computing system or device such as for example the server computer to perform one or more operations and or causing the processor to direct other components of the computing system or device to perform one or more of the operations.

For purposes of illustrating and describing the concepts of the present disclosure the methods disclosed herein are described as being performed by the server computer via execution of one or more software modules such as for example the data management application . It should be understood that additional and or alternative devices and or network nodes can provide the functionality described herein via execution of one or more modules applications and or other software including but not limited to the data management application . Thus the illustrated embodiments are illustrative and should not be viewed as being limiting in any way.

The method begins at operation wherein the server computer obtains metadata . According to various implementations of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein the server computer can obtain the metadata as or as a part of a data stream that can be received retrieved and or otherwise obtained by the server computer . According to various embodiments the data sources can be configured to stream the metadata in or as the data streams to the server computer . The metadata may be reported at or according to almost any time frequency or schedule such as for example once a second once a minute once an hour once a day once a week once a month other times combinations thereof or the like. The event data may be streamed to the server computer at or according to the same and or different frequencies intervals times and or schedules.

In one contemplated embodiment the metadata is streamed to the server computer as a daily report on changes made to the network and or a portion thereof. In some other embodiments the metadata is streamed to the server as temporal releases of metadata by the data sources at five minutes intervals hourly daily weekly monthly combinations thereof or the like. Thus the metadata obtained in operation can correspond to a temporal release of the metadata in one or more of the data streams though this is not necessarily the case.

As illustrated in the metadata obtained in operation can include a record that has a data value and a time range. Because multiple records can be received or otherwise obtained by the server computer at operation it should be understood that the example of one record as shown in is merely illustrative and is provided to simplify description of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein. Thus this example is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the server computer analyzes the time range included in the record of the metadata . The time range can define at least one of a lower time limit tand an upper time limit t. In some embodiments a particular data value included in the record may apply from the lower time limit tuntil a present time and as such an upper time limit tmay not be included in the record . In the described embodiment of the method the record is described as including the lower time limit tand the upper time limit t. Thus the server computer can analyze in operation the time range defined by these two limits to define the range over which the data value included in the record applies.

By way of example the record may include a data value of forty. Similarly the record may include a lower time limit tthat specifies a time of Jan. 28 2017 08 17 24 AM and an upper time limit tthat specifies a time of Jan. 28 2018 11 52 17 AM. In this example the server computer can be configured to analyze the record to define a range between these two times as the time range over which the data value forty applies. Because the record can include almost any data value in almost any format and over almost any time range it should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the server computer identifies a temporal metadata partition to which the metadata obtained in operation is to be stored. The server computer can be configured to analyze the time range analyzed in operation as well as time ranges and or time values of the temporal metadata partitions stored at the data store . In some embodiments as explained above the server computer can be configured to include a time range or time value in a name of the temporal metadata partitions . As such the server computer can be configured to analyze names of the temporal metadata partitions in operation to identify the temporal metadata partition to which the metadata is to be copied based upon the time range included in the metadata .

Thus for example if the metadata includes the time range set forth in the example described with respect to operation above the server computer can determine that a temporal metadata partition including values having timestamps including a date in May 2017 and or having a name or title indicating such a time indication is a temporal metadata partition to which the metadata is to be copied. It should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the server computer stores the metadata obtained in operation to the temporal metadata partition identified in operation . Thus the temporal metadata partition identified in operation can include the record included in the metadata received in operation .

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the server computer can determine if the metadata is to be stored in another temporal metadata partition . Thus the server computer can be configured to examine the names and or contents of the temporal metadata partitions to identify another temporal metadata partition to which the metadata is to be copied. Thus in the above example of the metadata that includes a time range from Jan. 28 2017 through Jan. 28 2018 the server computer can identify one or more temporal metadata partitions that include time ranges or points within that time range. Thus for example a temporal metadata partition that includes data for February of 2017 can be identified as can temporal metadata partitions that include data for March 2017 April 2017 May 2017 or the like.

If the server computer determines in operation that the metadata is to be copied to another temporal metadata partition the method can return to operation wherein the server computer can identify another temporal metadata partition . Thus it can be appreciated that operations can be repeated by the server computer until the metadata has been copied to each of the temporal metadata partitions that include time based data within the time range included in the metadata .

It can be appreciated from the above description of operations that a record associated with the metadata can be copied to multiple temporal data partitions by the server computer . As such when a temporal metadata partition is retrieved for execution of a query against the event data stored in the temporal data partitions described herein the record can be included in the temporal metadata partition . An example method for executing a query using temporal metadata partitions is set forth in additional detail below with reference to .

Turning now to aspects of a method for executing a query against event data using metadata stored in temporal metadata partitions will be described in detail according to an illustrative embodiment. The method begins at operation wherein the server computer receives a query . The query received in operation can include a query received from a requestor such as for example a network data analysis system network operations personnel and or a consumer or user of the event data such as the user device . In some embodiments the query can correspond to a standing query executed periodically by the server computer and or one or more reporting devices in communication with the server computer .

In some embodiments the query received in operation can correspond to a query that is to be executed against the event data stored in the temporal data partitions at the data store . Thus for example the event data can correspond to router utilization data and the query can correspond to a request for data about router utilization percentage calculation. Because the query can be executed against other types of event data it should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the server computer executes the query against the event data . Thus the server computer can by executing the query against the event data identify one or more records or other data points included in the event data that correspond to or are responsive to the query received in operation . It should be understood that the server computer can be configured to call a query device or application and or that the server computer can execute one or more query applications for executing the query . As such operation can include in some embodiments invoking functionality associated with a query application via a program call and or via invoking a query application via an application programming interface exposed by a query application or query device. By executing the query against the event data the server computer can identify an event data query result.

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the server computer identifies a timestamp of an event data query result. Because the event data stored in the temporal data partitions can include timestamps the server computer can be configured to identify a timestamp of the event data included in the event data query result in operation . Because the server computer can identify multiple event data query results in operation it should be understood that the server computer can repeat operation to identify a timestamp associated with one or more event data query results though this is not the case. As such the example of a timestamp as described herein should be understood as being illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the server computer retrieves relevant metadata from the temporal metadata partitions . According to various embodiments the server computer can identify relevant metadata by identifying a timestamp or time range associated with an event data query result and or the query . Thus for example if the query requests router data associated with a particular time such as for example the month of February 2017 the server computer can identify temporal metadata partitions that include metadata having time ranges that encompass or overlap February 2017. Because the server computer can identify temporal metadata partitions in additional or alternative ways it should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the server computer applies the metadata retrieved in operation to the event data result obtained in operation . As explained herein the metadata can provide context for the event data and or an event data result based thereon. For example if a query relates to a particular user s data plan and or usage in a particular month the server computer can query event data that includes data usage of the user in that month. The metadata can provide for example an indication of what the user s plan was e.g. ten GB per month twenty GB per month or the like at the time the event data was recorded.

To illustrate the usefulness of temporally partitioned metadata metadata stored in a first temporal metadata partition may indicate a plan of ten GB per month from January July of 2017. Metadata stored in a second temporal metadata partition may indicate a plan of twenty GB per month from August September of 2017. Thus if the event data indicates a consumption of fifteen GB the metadata can be used to collectively indicate with the event data that the user used 150 or 75 of his or her plan depending upon which metadata is relevant to the event data . If the timestamp of the event data indicates for example August 2017 the server computer can interpret the event data in view of the metadata stored in the second temporal metadata partition. Thus it can be understood that the storage of metadata in temporal metadata partitions as disclosed herein can be used to understand and or impart meaning to event data . It should be understood that the above example is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

As explained above the server computer can identify multiple results in the query of the event data in operation . As such the server computer can iterate operation for each of the event data query results. Thus the server computer can be configured to apply relevant metadata to each of the event data query results in some embodiments.

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the server computer outputs results . The results output by the server computer in operation can correspond to the event data as interpreted in view of the applied metadata from the relevant temporal metadata partitions . As such embodiments of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein can be used to respond to queries using metadata stored in temporal metadata partitions .

Turning now to aspects of a method for merging temporal metadata partitions will be described in detail according to an illustrative embodiment. The method begins at operation wherein the server computer can select a temporal metadata partition . In some embodiments the selection of the temporal metadata partition can correspond to the server computer selecting a temporal metadata partition that is to be merged with another temporal metadata partition .

The server computer can determine that temporal metadata partitions are to be merged based upon a command or other trigger event. For example the server computer can be configured to merge temporal metadata partitions in response to receiving a command to merge temporal metadata partitions detecting storage of a certain number of records in the temporal metadata partitions detecting expiration of a timer that can be initiated with each temporal metadata partition merge operation passage of a particular amount of time since a last merge process execution of a number of queries or other actions storage of a particular number of temporal metadata partitions combinations thereof or the like.

It should be understood that a number of temporal metadata partitions or operations an amount of time and or other amounts or number of events or items that may trigger a merge operation for temporal metadata partitions can be defined in various ways. For example these and other trigger conditions may be defined by system or user settings options or the like. Because merging of temporal metadata partitions can be initiated for additional and or alternative reasons it should be understood that the above examples are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way. Upon detecting a trigger to merge the temporal metadata partitions the server computer can select a temporal metadata partition .

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the server computer identifies temporal metadata partitions related to the temporal metadata partition selected in operation . The server computer can determine that a temporal metadata partition is related to another temporal metadata partition for example by determining that a particular record is stored in both temporal metadata partitions by determining that a time range included in the records of multiple temporal metadata partitions overlap based upon keys identifiers and or other data included in the temporal metadata partitions combinations thereof or the like. Because the server computer can identify related temporal metadata partitions in additional and or alternative ways it should be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way. The server computer can be configured to repeat operation until the server computer determines that no additional related temporal metadata partitions exist. Thus the server computer can identify by repeating operation all related temporal metadata partitions stored at the data store .

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the server computer can merge the related temporal metadata partitions identified in operations . In operation the server computer can merge the temporal metadata partitions by merging data values of records having a similar or identical time range by merging time ranges of records having a similar or identical data value and or by taking other actions to merge records of the temporal metadata partitions .

In some embodiments the time ranges of the related temporal metadata partitions can be merged to reflect time ranges of the multiple temporal metadata partitions . Thus for example if time ranges of temporal metadata partitions are represented as t t time ranges of temporal metadata partitions can be represented respectively as t t and t t . Thus in a merge operation the server computer can be configured to determine an earlier or later time among t tand an earlier or later time among t t. In one contemplated embodiment the server computer selects a lowest time among the lower time limits t tand a highest time among the upper time limits t tand modifies the time range of the temporal metadata partition to reflect a time range with these selected time limits. Thus the example temporal metadata partitions above can be merged to obtain new temporal metadata partition having a time range t t . Because the temporal metadata partitions can be merged in additional and or alternative ways it should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

Similarly the server computer can be configure to merge temporal metadata partitions by merging data values of the temporal metadata partitions and maintaining the time ranges of the temporal metadata partitions . Thus for example if time ranges of two or more temporal metadata partitions are represented as t t and t t the server computer can be configured to merge the values of the temporal metadata partitions and create a merged temporal metadata partition having a time range t t . The data values of the temporal metadata partitions can be merged in any number of ways including but not limited to averaging the data values summing the data values otherwise modifying the data values combinations thereof or the like. In some embodiments the temporal metadata partitions can contain records rand r. These records r rcan have ranges tl th and tl th respectively. Furthermore these records r rcan be otherwise identical. In such a case the records r rcan be merged into a single temporal metadata partition . Because the temporal metadata partitions can be merged in additional and or alternative ways it should be understood that these examples of merging data values are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the server computer saves the temporal metadata partition . In particular the server computer can save the temporal metadata partition generated by merging the temporal metadata partitions in operation in the data store . Because the temporal metadata partition can be saved to additional and or alternative data storage devices it should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

Turning now to additional details of the network are illustrated according to an illustrative embodiment. The network includes a cellular network a packet data network for example the Internet and a circuit switched network for example a publicly switched telephone network PSTN . The cellular network includes various components such as but not limited to base transceiver stations BTSs Node B s or e Node B s base station controllers BSCs radio network controllers RNCs mobile switching centers MSCs mobile management entities MMEs short message service centers SMSCs multimedia messaging service centers MMSCs home location registers HLRs home subscriber servers HSSs visitor location registers VLRs charging platforms billing platforms voicemail platforms GPRS core network components location service nodes an IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS and the like. The cellular network also includes radios and nodes for receiving and transmitting voice data and combinations thereof to and from radio transceivers networks the packet data network and the circuit switched network .

A mobile communications device such as for example a cellular telephone a user equipment a mobile terminal a PDA a laptop computer a handheld computer and combinations thereof can be operatively connected to the cellular network . The cellular network can be configured as a 2G GSM network and can provide data communications via GPRS and or EDGE. Additionally or alternatively the cellular network can be configured as a 3G UMTS network and can provide data communications via the HSPA protocol family for example HSDPA EUL also referred to as HSDPA and HSPA . The cellular network also is compatible with 4G mobile communications standards as well as evolved and future mobile standards.

The packet data network includes various devices for example servers computers databases and other devices in communication with another as is generally known. The packet data network devices are accessible via one or more network links. The servers often store various files that are provided to a requesting device such as for example a computer a terminal a smartphone or the like. Typically the requesting device includes software a browser for executing a web page in a format readable by the browser or other software. Other files and or data may be accessible via links in the retrieved files as is generally known. In some embodiments the packet data network includes or is in communication with the Internet. The circuit switched network includes various hardware and software for providing circuit switched communications. The circuit switched network may include or may be what is often referred to as a plain old telephone system POTS . The functionality of a circuit switched network or other circuit switched network are generally known and will not be described herein in detail.

The illustrated cellular network is shown in communication with the packet data network and a circuit switched network though it should be appreciated that this is not necessarily the case. One or more Internet capable devices for example a PC a laptop a portable device or another suitable device can communicate with one or more cellular networks and devices connected thereto through the packet data network . It also should be appreciated that the Internet capable device can communicate with the packet data network through the circuit switched network the cellular network and or via other networks not illustrated .

As illustrated a communications device for example a telephone facsimile machine modem computer or the like can be in communication with the circuit switched network and therethrough to the packet data network and or the cellular network . It should be appreciated that the communications device can be an Internet capable device and can be substantially similar to the Internet capable device . In the specification the network is used to refer broadly to any combination of the networks . It should be appreciated that substantially all of the functionality described with reference to the network can be performed by the cellular network the packet data network and or the circuit switched network alone or in combination with other networks network elements and the like.

The processing unit may be a standard central processor that performs arithmetic and logical operations a more specific purpose programmable logic controller PLC a programmable gate array or other type of processor known to those skilled in the art and suitable for controlling the operation of the server computer. Processing units are generally known and therefore are not described in further detail herein.

The memory communicates with the processing unit via the system bus . In some embodiments the memory is operatively connected to a memory controller not shown that enables communication with the processing unit via the system bus . The memory includes an operating system and one or more program modules . The operating system can include but is not limited to members of the WINDOWS WINDOWS CE and or WINDOWS MOBILE families of operating systems from MICROSOFT CORPORATION the LINUX family of operating systems the SYMBIAN family of operating systems from SYMBIAN LIMITED the BREW family of operating systems from QUALCOMM CORPORATION the MAC OS iOS and or LEOPARD families of operating systems from APPLE CORPORATION the FREEBSD family of operating systems the SOLARIS family of operating systems from ORACLE CORPORATION other operating systems and the like.

The program modules may include various software and or program modules described herein. In some embodiments for example the program modules include the data management application . This and or other programs can be embodied in computer readable media containing instructions that when executed by the processing unit perform one or more of the methods described in detail above with respect to . According to embodiments the program modules may be embodied in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. Although not shown in it should be understood that the memory also can be configured to store data from one or more of the data streams the temporal data partitions the temporal metadata partitions the queries the results and or other data if desired.

By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may include any available computer storage media or communication media that can be accessed by the computer system . Communication media includes computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics changed or set in a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of the any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Computer storage media includes volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM Erasable Programmable ROM EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory or other solid state memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer system . In the claims the phrase computer storage medium and variations thereof does not include waves or signals per se and or communication media.

The user interface devices may include one or more devices with which a user accesses the computer system . The user interface devices may include but are not limited to computers servers personal digital assistants cellular phones or any suitable computing devices. The I O devices enable a user to interface with the program modules . In one embodiment the I O devices are operatively connected to an I O controller not shown that enables communication with the processing unit via the system bus . The I O devices may include one or more input devices such as but not limited to a keyboard a mouse or an electronic stylus. Further the I O devices may include one or more output devices such as but not limited to a display screen or a printer.

The network devices enable the computer system to communicate with other networks or remote systems via a network such as the network . Examples of the network devices include but are not limited to a modem a radio frequency RF or infrared IR transceiver a telephonic interface a bridge a router or a network card. The network may include a wireless network such as but not limited to a Wireless Local Area Network WLAN such as a WI FI network a Wireless Wide Area Network WWAN a Wireless Personal Area Network WPAN such as BLUETOOTH a Wireless Metropolitan Area Network WMAN such a WiMAX network or a cellular network. Alternatively the network may be a wired network such as but not limited to a Wide Area Network WAN such as the Internet a Local Area Network LAN such as the Ethernet a wired Personal Area Network PAN or a wired Metropolitan Area Network MAN .

Based on the foregoing it should be appreciated that systems and methods for generating and using temporal metadata partitions have been disclosed herein. Although the subject matter presented herein has been described in language specific to computer structural features methodological and transformative acts specific computing machinery and computer readable media it is to be understood that the concepts and technologies disclosed herein are not necessarily limited to the specific features acts or media described herein. Rather the specific features acts and mediums are disclosed as example forms of implementing the concepts and technologies disclosed herein.

The subject matter described above is provided by way of illustration only and should not be construed as limiting. Various modifications and changes may be made to the subject matter described herein without following the example embodiments and applications illustrated and described and without departing from the true spirit and scope of the embodiments of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein.

