---

title: Antenna apparatus and electronic device having the same
abstract: An antenna apparatus and an electronic device having the same is provided. The electronic device includes an antenna radiator formed in a loop shape having at least one opening end part opened by a slit, at least a portion of the at least one opening end part is fed, at least one electronic component of metal material electrically connected with the antenna radiator, and at least one metal member arranged around the antenna radiator, where the at least one opening end part is formed in a reverse direction from the direction of the metal member.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09590291&OS=09590291&RS=09590291
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd
number: 09590291
owner_city: 
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20150820
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 a to a Korean Patent Application filed in the Korean Intellectual Property Office on Aug. 21 2014 and assigned Serial No. 10 2014 0109086 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates to an electronic device and more particularly to an electronic device having an antenna apparatus.

The growth of electronic telecommunication technologies has led to the emergence of electronic devices having various functions. In general these electronic devices are capable of performing multiple complex functions.

As the functional gap between the electronic devices of the various manufacturing companies has noticeably decreased the manufacturing companies have begun to increasingly focus on improving the physical aspects of electronic devices. Over time electronic devices such as smartphones have become more lightweight thinner and smaller. To satisfy the interests of consumers manufacturers have focused on improving the rigidity of electronic devices as they become slimmer and strengthening the design aspects of the electronic devices. As part of this trend manufacturing companies replace some of the constituent physical elements of the electronic devices with metal materials to increase the rigidity of the electronic devices and concurrently improve the aesthetic appeal of the electronic devices. As a result manufacturing companies are now struggling to solve grounding issues antenna radiation performance deterioration issues etc. arising from the use of such metal materials.

Accordingly an antenna apparatus for an electronic device may have a basic structure of a Planar Inverted F Antenna PIFA or monopole radiator. The volume and number of mounted antenna radiators may be determined according to a service frequency bandwidth and the type of antenna. The antenna apparatus may use a communication band of a low frequency band of 700 Mega Hertz MHz to 900 MHz and a high frequency band of 1700 MHz to 2100 MHz. For instance the antenna apparatus has to satisfy various wireless communication services such as Long Term Evolution LTE Bluetooth BT Global Positioning System GPS and WiFi services. An electronic device of a defined size needs to satisfy all of the aforementioned communication bands in the volume of a given antenna radiator needs to have an electric field equal to or less than a Specific Absorption Rate SAR reference value for determining health risks and needs to overcome radiation performance interference caused by a metal member such as a metal housing or a Universal Serial Bus USB .

The present disclosure has been made to address at least the problems and disadvantages described above and to provide at least the advantages described below.

Accordingly an aspect of the present disclosure is to provide an antenna apparatus e.g. a Metal Device Antenna MDA using an existing metal member of the electronic device as a radiator for the antenna a bezel antenna apparatus using a metal housing of the electronic device as a radiator etc.

Accordingly another aspect of the present disclosure is to provide an antenna apparatus and an electronic device having the same implemented to prevent radiation performance deterioration caused by a metal member e.g. a metal housing of an electronic device .

Accordingly another aspect of the present disclosure is to provide an antenna apparatus and an electronic device having the same which is aesthetically pleasing has sufficient rigidity and concurrently contributes to radiation performance improvement.

In accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure an electronic device is provided. The electronic device includes an antenna radiator formed in a loop shape having at least one opening end part opened by a slit the slit feeding the at least one opening end part at least one electronic component of metal material electrically connected with the antenna radiator and at least one metal member arranged around the antenna radiator where the at least one opening end part is formed in a reverse direction from the direction of the metal member.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure antenna apparatus is provided. The antenna apparatus includes an antenna radiator formed in a loop shape having at least one opening end part opened by a slit the slit feeding the at least one opening end part and at least one electronic component of metal material electrically connected with the antenna radiator where the at least one opening end part is formed in a reverse direction from the direction of a peripheral metal member.

Hereinafter various embodiments of the present disclosure are described with reference to the accompanying drawings. While the various embodiments of the present disclosure are susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments are shown by way of example in the drawings and will herein be described in detail. It should be understood however that is the various embodiments are not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure to the particular form disclosed but on the contrary the scope of the present disclosure covers all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the various embodiments of the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims. In describing the various embodiments like reference numerals denote like constitutional elements throughout the drawings.

The terms include and may include used herein are intended to indicate the presence of a corresponding function operation or constitutional element disclosed herein and are not intended to limit the presence of one or more functions operations or constitutional elements. In addition the terms include and have are intended to indicate that characteristics numbers steps operations constitutional elements and elements disclosed in the specification or combinations thereof exist however additional possibilities of one or more other characteristics numbers steps operations constitutional elements elements or combinations thereof may exist.

As used herein the expression or includes any and all combinations of words enumerated together. For example A or B may include either A or B or may include both A and B.

Although expressions used in various embodiments of the present disclosure such as 1 2 first second may be used to express various constituent elements of the various embodiments these expressions are not intended to limit the corresponding constituent elements. For example the above expressions are not intended to limit an order or an importance of the corresponding constituent elements. The above expressions may be used to distinguish one constituent element from another constituent element. For example a first user device and the second user device are both user devices and indicate different user devices. For example a first constituent element may be referred to as a second constituent element and similarly the second constituent element may be referred to as the first constituent element without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

When an element is mentioned as being connected to or accessing another element this may mean that it is directly connected to or accessing the other element or there may be intervening elements present between the two elements. On the other hand when a element is mentioned as being directly connected to or directly accessing another element it is to be understood that there are no intervening elements present.

By the term substantially it is meant that the recited characteristic parameter or value need not be achieved exactly but that deviations or variations including but not limited to for example tolerances measurement errors measurement accuracy limitations and other factors known to persons of ordinary skill in the art may occur in amounts that do not preclude the effect the characteristic was intended to provide.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments of the present disclosure only and is not intended to be limiting of the various embodiments of the present disclosure. A singular expression includes a plural expression unless there is a contextually distinctive difference between the expressions.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by those of ordinary skill in the art to which various embodiments of the present disclosure belong. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and the various embodiments of the present disclosure and should not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

An electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be a device including an antenna capable of performing a communication function in at least one frequency band. For example the electronic device may be a smart phone a tablet Personal Computer PC a mobile phone a video phone an e book reader a desktop PC a laptop PC a netbook computer a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a Portable Multimedia Player PMP a MPEG 1 Audio Layer 3 MP3 player a mobile medical device a camera and a wearable device e.g. a Head Mounted Device HMD such as electronic glasses electronic clothes an electronic bracelet an electronic necklace an electronic appcessory an electronic tattoo or a smart watch .

According to certain embodiments the electronic device may be a smart home appliance having an antenna. For example the smart home appliance may include at least one of a TeleVision TV a Digital Versatile Disk DVD player an audio player a refrigerator an air conditioner a cleaner an oven a microwave oven a washing machine an air purifier a set top box a TV box e.g. Samsung HomeSync Apple TV or Google TV a game console an electronic dictionary an electronic key a camcorder and an electronic picture frame.

According to certain embodiments the electronic device including the antenna may be one of various medical devices e.g. Magnetic Resonance Angiography MRA Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI Computed Tomography CT imaging equipment ultrasonic instrument etc. a navigation device a Global Positioning System GPS receiver an Event Data Recorder EDR a Flight Data Recorder FDR a car infotainment device electronic equipment for a ship e.g. a vessel navigation device a gyro compass etc. avionics a security device a car head unit an industrial or domestic robot an Automatic Teller Machine ATM and Point Of Sales POS device.

According to certain embodiments the electronic device may be part of at least one of an item of furniture or a building structure including an antenna. The electronic device may be an electronic board an electronic signature input device a projector or any of various measurement machines e.g. water supply electricity gas propagation measurement machine etc. .

The electronic device may be one or more combinations of the aforementioned various devices. In addition the electronic device may be a flexible device. Moreover the electronic device is not limited to the aforementioned devices.

Hereinafter an electronic device according to various embodiments will be described with reference to the accompanying drawings. The term user used in the various embodiments may refer to a person who uses the electronic device or a device which uses the electronic device e.g. an Artificial Intelligence AI electronic device .

Referring to a network environment including an electronic device is provided. Electronic device includes a bus a processor a memory an input output interface a display and a communication interface .

The bus is a circuit for connecting the aforementioned elements e.g. the processor the memory the input output interface the display and the communication interface to each other and for delivering communication e.g. a control message between the aforementioned elements.

The processor receives an instruction from the aforementioned different elements e.g. the memory the input output interface the display the communication interface via the bus and thus may interpret the received instruction and execute arithmetic processing or data processing according to the interpreted instruction.

The memory stores an instruction or data received from the processor or different elements or generated by the processor or the different elements. The memory includes programming modules such as a kernel a middleware an Application Programming Interface API and an application . Each of the aforementioned programming modules may consist of software firmware or hardware entities or may consist of at least two or more combinations thereof.

The kernel controls or manages the system resources e.g. the bus the processor the memory etc. used to execute an operation or function implemented in the middleware the API or the application . In addition the kernel provides a controllable or manageable interface by accessing individual constituent elements of the electronic device in the middleware the API or the application .

The middleware performs a mediation role so that the API or the application communicates with the kernel to exchange data. In addition regarding task requests received from the application the middleware performs a control e.g. scheduling or load balancing for the task requests by using a method of assigning a priority for using a system resource of the electronic device to at least one of the application .

The API includes at least one interface or function e.g. instruction for file control window control video processing character control etc. as an interface capable of controlling a function provided by the application in the kernel or the middleware .

The application may include an Short Message Service SMS Multimedia Messaging Service MMS application an e mail application a calendar application an alarm application a health care application e.g. an application for measuring a physical activity level a blood sugar etc. or an environment information application e.g. atmospheric pressure humidity or temperature information . Additionally or alternatively the application may be an application related to an information exchange between the electronic device and an external electronic device or server . The application related to the information exchange includes a notification relay application for relaying specific information to the external electronic device or a device management application for managing the external electronic device.

The notification relay application includes a function of relaying notification information generated in another application e.g. an SMS MMS application an e mail application a health care application an environment information application etc. of the electronic device to the external electronic device or server . Additionally or alternatively the notification relay application receives notification information from the external electronic device and provides the notification information to the user.

The device management application manages a function for at least one part of the external electronic device which communicates with the electronic device . Examples of the function include turning on turning off the external electronic device itself or some components thereof or adjusting of a display illumination or a resolution and managing e.g. installing deleting or updating an application which operates in the external electronic device or a service e.g. a call service or a message service provided by the external electronic device .

The application includes an application specified according to attribute information e.g. an electronic device type of the external electronic device . For example if the external electronic device is an MP3 player the application may include an application related to a music play. Similarly if the external electronic device is a mobile medical device the application may include an application related to a health care. The application may include at least one of a specified application in the electronic device or an application received from the external electronic device .

The input output interface relays an instruction or data input from a user by using a sensor e.g. an acceleration sensor a gyro sensor or an input device e.g. a keyboard or a touch screen to the processor the memory or the communication interface for example via the bus . For example the input output interface provides data regarding a user s touch input via the touch screen to the processor . In addition the input output interface outputs an instruction or data received from the processor the memory or the communication interface to an output device e.g. a speaker or a display for example via the bus . For example the input output interface outputs audio data provided by using the processor to the user via the speaker.

The communication interface connects a communication between the electronic device and the electronic device or the server . The communication interface includes an antenna examples of which are described hereinafter. The communication interface may communicate with the external electronic device and the server by being connected with a network through wireless communication or wired communication.

The wireless communication includes for example at least one of Wi Fi Bluetooth BT Near Field Communication NFC Global Positioning System GPS and cellular communication e.g. LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS WiBro GSM etc. .

The wired communication includes for example at least one of Universal Serial Bus USB High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI Recommended Standard RS 232 and Plain Old Telephone Service POTS .

The network may be a telecommunications network. The telecommunications network includes at least one of a computer network an Internet an Internet of Things and a telephone network. A protocol e.g. a transport layer protocol a data link layer protocol or a physical layer protocol for communication between the electronic device and an external electronic device may be supported in at least one of the application the application programming interface the middleware the kernel and the communication interface .

Referring to a display is installed in a front surface of the electronic device . A speaker device is installed at an upper side of the display to output a voice of a counterpart. A microphone device is installed at a lower side of the display and transmits a voice input to the electronic device to the counterpart.

According to one exemplary embodiment components for performing various functions of an electronic device are arranged around the speaker device . The components include at least one sensor module a camera device and a Light Emitting Diode LED indicator .

This sensor module may for instance include at least one of an illumination sensor e.g. an optical sensor a proximity sensor e.g. an optical sensor an infrared sensor and an ultrasonic sensor.

The electronic device includes a metal bezel as a metal housing. The metal bezel is arranged along an edge of the electronic device and may be arranged to extend from the edge to at least a partial region of a rear surface of the electronic device . The metal bezel defines a thickness of the electronic device along the edge of the electronic device and is formed to have a closed loop shape. The metal bezel is not limited to this construction and may be also formed in a manner of contributing to at least a part of the thickness of the electronic device . The metal bezel may be also arranged only in at least a partial region along the edge of the electronic device . When the metal bezel contributes as a part of a housing of the electronic device the remnant part of the housing may be replaced with a non metallic member. In this case the metal bezel may be formed in a manner of insert injecting the non metallic member. The metal bezel includes at least one segment part . Thus unit bezel parts segmented by the segment part may be exploited as antenna radiators as well.

When viewing a front of the electronic device the metal bezel is formed to include the right bezel part the left bezel part the upper bezel part and the lower bezel part .

The antenna apparatus may be arranged in an A region or a B region of the electronic device being least affected when a user holds the electronic device with a hand. However the arrangement of the antenna apparatus is not limited these regions and the antenna apparatus may be also arranged in a lengthwise direction in at least one of both lateral surfaces of the electronic device in addition to the A region or the B region.

The antenna apparatus may use a metal member of the electronic device as a part of a radiator of the antenna apparatus. The antenna apparatus includes an interface connector port e.g. a micro USB port of metal material. An antenna apparatus including the metal member is hereinafter referred to as a Metal Device Antenna MDA . An antenna apparatus constructed in accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure whose radiation direction is a reverse direction to that of the MDA is hereinafter referred to as a Metal Device Antenna Reverse MDA R .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the antenna apparatus is implemented as the MDA R and is designed to radiate in a reverse direction to that of a peripheral metal member e.g. a metal housing . Accordingly the antenna apparatus prevents radiation performance deterioration caused by an interference of the metal member.

Referring to the electronic device includes a main Printed Circuit Board PCB and a sub PCB . At least one antenna radiator having a constant shape may be formed in the sub PCB i.e. a Printed circuit board Embedded Antenna PEA or may be attached to the sub PCB . However the antenna arrangement is not limited to this and the antenna radiator may be arranged on the main PCB as well. The antenna radiator may be arranged on all of the main PCB and the sub PCB as well. The antenna radiator may be formed on the sub PCB in a pattern scheme as well. The antenna radiator may be a plate type metal or Flexible Printed Circuit FPC attached to the sub PCB as well.

When the antenna radiator is arranged on the sub PCB a connector cable may be also installed to electrically connect the antenna radiator of the sub PCB with a Radio Frequency RF connector arranged in a non conductive region of the main PCB .

The sub PCB mounts an interface connector port e.g. a USB connector port of metal material in a Surface Mount Technology SMT scheme. The antenna apparatus may be constructed as the MDA including the interface connector port . In place of the interface connector port at least one of various electronic components of metal materials applied to the electronic device may be contributed as an antenna radiator. The electronic component may include at least one of a speaker a microphone an ear jack assembly and a vibrator.

If metal material is used as a housing of electronic device an antenna apparatus using a PIFA or monopole antenna radiator may suffer from a phenomenon of radiation efficiency deterioration and interference although a sufficient antenna volume is secured. Also the same problem occurs even when metal members such as a USB connector port a speaker a microphone an ear jack assembly a vibrator etc. are arranged adjacent to the antenna apparatus. If a high voltage is induced in an opening end region of the antenna radiator the antenna radiator has an electric field as a main element of a short range field. The electric field of the antenna radiator easily gives rise to the effect of coupling with a metal object adjacent to the antenna radiator. The coupling may excite an electric current of which direction causes radiation performance interference.

An MDA structure which is a structure using these metal components e.g. a USB a microphone a touch key etc. as the antenna radiator may offer excellent performance compared to the conventional PIFA monopole antenna apparatus. However if a slit formed by an opening end of the antenna radiator is clogged with a peripheral metal member the coupling phenomenon may occur at the opening end being a main radiation region of the antenna radiator degrading radiation performance.

According to various embodiments to address this problem the opening end being the main radiation region of the antenna radiator is designed to direct in a reverse direction of that of the MDA structure. Accordingly although the metal member is arranged around the antenna radiator because the main radiation region of the antenna radiator is designed to be spaced apart from the metal member it minimizes performance deterioration caused by a phenomenon of coupling with the metal member. The peripheral metal member e.g. metal housing is designed to serve as a Ground GND connection part of an MDA R structure thereby minimizing a hand effect caused by metal.

Referring to an antenna radiator is formed in a loop shape with a lower side opened. The antenna radiator has a slit provided in the center of the antenna radiator and is closed in the direction of a metal bezel i.e. metal housing . The antenna radiator includes an interface connector port of metal material. The interface connector port may serve as an antenna radiator as well.

The antenna radiator includes an opened portion and an opening end formed by the slit . The opening end is formed to direct radiation in the direction of the interface connector port . The opening end is formed to direct radiation in a reverse direction from the direction of the metal bezel . Accordingly the antenna radiator induces resonance at an opening end portion and guides the radiation direction in a reverse direction from the direction of the metal bezel to exhibit efficient radiation performance.

The antenna radiator is configured such that a predetermined feeding line starting from a feeding part of an RF signal input output port may crosses the slit and electrically connects to the neighborhood of the opening end . Accordingly the antenna radiator may have an electric length d ranging from one end of the opening end to a Feeding Point FP of the opening end . Accordingly the antenna radiator may operate as an Inverted F Antenna IFA . A position of the Feeding Point FP of the opening end is variously set to control the electrical length d of the antenna radiator . A matching element may be interposed in the feeding line to control an operation frequency band as well. A contact pad is formed in at least a partial region of the opening end and is electrically connected with the antenna radiator . The contact pad may be connected with an additional antenna radiator to be described later. In this case the additional antenna radiator may be electrically connected with the antenna radiator by means of an electrical connection means e.g. a C clip etc. installed in the contact pad .

Referring to an antenna radiator is formed in a loop shape with a lower side opened. The antenna radiator has a slit provided in the center of the antenna radiator and is closed in the direction of a metal bezel . The antenna radiator includes an interface connector port of metal material. The interface connector port may serve as an antenna radiator as well.

The antenna radiator includes an opened portion and an opening end formed by the slit . The opening end is formed to direct radiation in the direction of the interface connector port . The opening end is formed to direct the radiation in a reverse direction from the direction of the metal bezel . Accordingly the antenna radiator induces resonance at an opening end portion and guides the radiation direction in a reverse direction from the direction of the metal bezel to exhibit efficient radiation performance.

The antenna radiator is configured such that a predetermined feeding line starting from a feeding part of an RF signal input output port crosses the slit and electrically connects to the neighborhood of the opening end . Accordingly the antenna radiator may be an IFA. A matching element may be interposed in the feeding line to control an operation frequency band as well. A contact pad is formed in at least a partial region of the opening end and be electrically connected with the antenna radiator . The contact pad may be connected with an additional antenna radiator to be described later. In this case the additional antenna radiator may be electrically connected with the antenna radiator by means of an electrical connection means e.g. a C clip etc. installed in the contact pad .

The antenna radiator is electrically connected with a touch key that is used as a key input element of an electronic device . The touch key may use a Flexible Printed Circuit FPC and an internal conductor pattern thereof may contribute as an additional antenna radiator. The touch key may be used as the additional antenna radiator to connect with the ground or may electrically connect a bead or inductance L element to a touch key signal line to control a resonant length of the antenna radiator .

Referring to an antenna radiator is formed in a loop shape with a lower side opened. The antenna radiator has a slit provided in the center of the antenna radiator and is closed in the direction of a metal bezel . The antenna radiator includes an interface connector port of metal material. The interface connector port may contribute as an antenna radiator as well.

The antenna radiator includes an opened portion and an opening end formed by the slit . The opening end is formed to direct radiation in the direction of the interface connector port . The opening end is formed to direct radiation in a reverse direction from the direction of the metal bezel . Accordingly the antenna radiator induces resonance at an opening end portion and guides the radiation direction in a reverse direction from the direction of the metal bezel to exhibit efficient radiation performance.

The antenna radiator is configured such that a predetermined feeding line starting from a feeding part of an RF signal input output port crosses the slit and electrically connects to the neighborhood of the opening end . Accordingly the antenna radiator may be an IFA. A matching element may be interposed in the feeding line to control an operation frequency band as well.

A contact pad is formed in at least a partial region of the opening end and is electrically connected with the antenna radiator . The contact pad is connected with an additional antenna radiator or . The additional antenna radiator or is electrically connected with the antenna radiator by means of an electrical connection means e.g. a C clip etc. installed in the contact pad . A multi band antenna apparatus operating in at least two frequency bands by the additional antenna radiator or may be implemented.

The additional antenna radiator or may be an antenna radiator arranged on an antenna carrier of dielectric material. In this case the antenna carrier including the additional antenna radiator or may be installed in a manner of being laminated on an upper part of the sub PCB on which the antenna radiator is formed. By mounting the antenna carrier on the sub PCB the additional antenna radiator or comes in physical contact with the C clip installed in the contact pad and electrically connects to the C clip. In this case a pattern length of the additional antenna radiator or on the antenna carrier may be controlled to form multi resonance.

As shown in the additional antenna radiator or is in a state of being separated vertically from the antenna radiator by the antenna carrier but may be arranged in a position overlapped with the antenna radiator . The additional antenna radiator or may also maintain the state of being separated vertically from the antenna radiator by self structure without being arranged on the antenna carrier. The additional antenna radiator or may be also arranged on the main PCB without being arranged on the antenna carrier. In this case the additional antenna radiator or may also maintain a state of being spaced apart from the antenna radiator in a horizontal direction i.e. not being spaced apart from the antenna radiator in a vertical direction. The antenna radiator may operate in a high frequency band e.g. 1700 MHz to 2100 MHz and the additional antenna radiator or may operate in a low frequency band e.g. e.g. 700 MHz to 900 MHz .

Referring to an antenna radiator is formed in a loop shape with a lower side opened. The antenna radiator has a slit provided in the center of the antenna radiator and is closed in the direction of a metal bezel . The antenna radiator includes an interface connector port of metal material. The interface connector port may contribute as an antenna radiator as well.

The antenna radiator includes an opened portion and an opening end formed by the slit . The opening end is formed to direct radiation in the direction of the interface connector port . The opening end is formed to direct radiation in a reverse direction from the direction of the metal bezel . Accordingly the antenna radiator induces resonance at an opening end portion and guides the radiation direction in a reverse direction from the direction of the metal bezel to exhibit efficient radiation performance.

The antenna radiator is configured such that a predetermined feeding line starting from a feeding part of an RF signal input output port crosses the slit and electrically connects to the neighborhood of the opening end . Accordingly the antenna radiator may be an IFA. A matching element may be interposed in the feeding line to control an operation frequency band as well.

A contact pad is formed in at least a partial region of the opening end and is electrically connected with the antenna radiator . The contact pad is connected with an additional antenna radiator or . The additional antenna radiator or may be electrically connected with the antenna radiator by means of an electrical connection means e.g. a C clip etc. installed in the contact pad . A multi band antenna apparatus operating in at least two frequency bands by the additional antenna radiator or may be implemented.

The additional antenna radiator or may be an antenna radiator arranged on an antenna carrier of dielectric material. In this case the antenna carrier including the additional antenna radiator or may be installed in a manner of being laminated on an upper part of the sub PCB on which the antenna radiator is formed. By mounting the antenna carrier on the sub PCB the additional antenna radiator or comes in physical contact with the C clip installed in the contact pad and electrically connects to the C clip. In this case a pattern length of the additional antenna radiator or on the antenna carrier may be controlled to form multi resonance.

A switch is interposed in the feeding line . One end of the switch is electrically connected with the additional antenna radiator or . The switch may operate the antenna radiator and the additional antenna radiator or or may selectively operate only the additional antenna radiator or according to a switching operation thereby switching an operation frequency band. The switch may use Single Pole Single Throw SPST Single Pole Double Throw SPDT Single Pole Four Throw SP4T etc. By this switching operation of the switch for instance an operation frequency band of 791 MHz to 862 MHz may be switched to an operation frequency band of 880 MHz to 960 MHz. Additionally for instance an operation frequency band of 704 MHz to 746 MHz may be switched to an operation frequency band of 824 MHz to 894 MHz as well.

The antenna apparatus may also add one additional antenna radiator or to switch an operation frequency band as in and add another additional antenna radiator to switch an operation frequency band as in .

Referring to an antenna radiator is formed in a loop shape with a lower side opened. The antenna radiator has a slit provided in the center of the antenna radiator and is closed in the direction of a metal bezel . The antenna radiator includes an interface connector port of metal material. The interface connector port may contribute as an antenna radiator as well.

The antenna radiator includes an opened portion and an opening end formed by the slit . The opening end is formed to direct radiation in the direction of the interface connector port . The opening end is formed to direct radiation in a reverse direction from the direction of the metal bezel . Accordingly the antenna radiator induces resonance at an opening end portion and guides the radiation direction in a reverse direction from the direction of the metal bezel to exhibit efficient radiation performance.

The antenna radiator is configured such that a predetermined feeding line starting from a feeding part of an RF signal input output port crosses the slit and electrically connects to the neighborhood of the opening end . Accordingly the antenna radiator may be an IFA. A matching element may be interposed in the feeding line to control an operation frequency band as well. A contact pad is formed in at least a partial region of the opening end and is electrically connected with the antenna radiator . The contact pad may be connected with an additional antenna radiator. In this case the additional antenna radiator is electrically connected with the antenna radiator by means of an electrical connection means e.g. a C clip etc. installed in the contact pad .

Although the opening end of the antenna radiator is formed to direct radiation in a reverse direction from the metal bezel smooth radiation implementation may be interfered with by the peripheral metal bezel . To address this problem the antenna radiator may be ground connected with the metal bezel . Accordingly the metal bezel around the antenna radiator no longer acts as a radiation interference object.

As illustrated in the antenna radiator is physically and electrically connected to the metal bezel by means of an electrical connection member or . At least one electrical connection member or is physically connected to at least one region among various positions of the metal bezel thereby promoting additional performance improvement of the antenna radiator in accordance with a position of a contact point between the electrical connection member or and the metal bezel .

Referring to an antenna radiator is formed in a loop shape with a lower side opened. The antenna radiator has a slit provided in the center of the antenna radiator and is closed in the direction of a metal bezel . The antenna radiator includes an interface connector port of metal material. The interface connector port may contribute as an antenna radiator as well.

The antenna radiator includes an opened portion and an opening end formed by the slit . According to one embodiment the opening end is formed to direct radiation in the direction of the interface connector port . The opening end is formed to direct radiation in a reverse direction from the direction of the metal bezel . Accordingly the antenna radiator induces resonance at an opening end portion and guides the radiation direction in a reverse direction from the direction of the metal bezel to exhibit efficient radiation performance.

The antenna radiator is configured such that a predetermined feeding line starting from a feeding part of an RF signal input output port crosses the slit and electrically connects to the neighborhood of the opening end . Accordingly the antenna radiator may be an IFA. A matching element may be interposed in the feeding line to control an operation frequency band as well. A contact pad is formed in at least a partial region of the opening end and is electrically connected with the antenna radiator . The contact pad may be connected with an additional antenna radiator. In this case the additional antenna radiator is electrically connected with the antenna radiator by means of an electrical connection means e.g. a C clip etc. installed in the contact pad .

As illustrated in by expanding a non ground region within the slit the antenna radiator controls antenna impedance and have an effect of improving a low frequency bandwidth.

As illustrated in an antenna radiator structure IFA using an existing antenna radiator and the same additional antenna radiator structure IFA may be formed to face each other. In this case even the same additional antenna radiator structure IFA feeds a feeding point FP from a feeding part through a feeding line as well. Also the additional antenna radiator structure IFA includes a matching element and may implement a radiation end . Accordingly by adding the independent feeding line the antenna radiator performs a radiation operation in the direction in which the antenna radiator structure IFA and the additional antenna radiator structure IFA face each other through the two feeding lines and .

As illustrated in an antenna radiator structure IFA using an existing antenna radiator and the same additional antenna radiator structure IFA may be formed to face each other. The antenna radiator may be formed such that one pair of the antenna radiator structures IFA and IFA are symmetrical to each other with the interface connector port interposed between the radiator structures. In this case even the additional antenna radiator structure IFA may feed a feeding point FP from a feeding part through a feeding line as well. Also the additional antenna radiator structure IFA includes a matching element and may implement a radiation end . Accordingly by adding the independent feeding line the antenna radiator performs a radiation operation in the direction in which the antenna radiator structure IFA and the additional antenna radiator structure IFA face each other through the two feeding lines and .

Referring to an antenna radiator is formed in a loop shape with a lower side opened. The antenna radiator has a slit provided in the center of the antenna radiator and is closed in the direction of a metal bezel . The antenna radiator includes an interface connector port of metal material. The interface connector port may contribute as an antenna radiator as well.

The antenna radiator includes an opened portion and an opening end formed by the slit . The opening end is formed to direct radiation in the direction of the interface connector port . The opening end is formed to direct radiation in a reverse direction from the direction of the metal bezel . Accordingly the antenna radiator induces resonance at an opening end portion and guides the radiation direction in a reverse direction from the direction of the metal bezel to exhibit efficient radiation performance.

The antenna radiator is configured such that a predetermined feeding line starting from a feeding part of an RF signal input output port crosses the slit and electrically connects to the neighborhood of the opening end . Accordingly the antenna radiator may be an IFA. A matching element may be interposed in the feeding line to control an operation frequency band as well. A contact pad is formed in at least a partial region of the opening end and is electrically connected with the antenna radiator . The contact pad may be connected with an additional antenna radiator. In this case the additional antenna radiator is electrically connected with the antenna radiator by means of an electrical connection means e.g. a C clip etc. installed in the contact pad .

The metal bezel is separated into corner bezel parts and and a lower bezel part by two segment parts . The corner bezel part is ground connected with the antenna radiator by an electrical connection member and the lower bezel part is electrically connected with the antenna radiator by an electrical connection member as well thereby contributing as additional antenna radiators.

Referring to a graph of the gain by frequency exhibited by the antenna apparatus is provided. As illustrated an average gain in a low frequency band is exhibited as 4.7 dB and an average gain in a high frequency band is exhibited as 3.5 dB. Accordingly a performance improvement occurs at matching optimization.

Referring to a graph comparing efficiency of an MDA and an MDA R on a free space is provided. As illustrated the efficiency of the MDA and the MDA R are similar in a low frequency band and the MDA R is predominant at approximately 1 dB in a main use band of a high frequency band.

Referring to a graph comparing the efficiency of the MDA and the MDA R when a right hand phantom is applied to the electronic device is provided. As illustrated the MDA R is predominant at approximately 1 dB in all bands.

Referring to a graph comparing the efficiency of the MDA and the MDA R when a left hand phantom is applied to the electronic device is provided. As illustrated the MDA R is predominant at approximately 4 dB in a low frequency band and the efficiency of the MDA and the MDA R are similar in a high frequency band.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure it may be appreciated from the aforementioned graphs that the MDA R exhibits similar performance to the MDA or exhibits improved performance over the MDA in a specific band. As a result the effect of radiation interference caused by a user s hand on an electronic device may be decreased.

Referring to a configuration of election device is provided. The electronic device may entirely or partially constitute the electronic device of the device of . Electronic device includes at least one Application Processor AP a communication module a Subscriber Identification Module SIM card a memory a sensor module an input device a display an interface an audio module a camera module a power management module a battery an indicator and a motor .

The AP controls a plurality of hardware or software elements connected to the AP by driving an operating system or an application program. The AP processes a variety of data including multimedia data and performs arithmetic operations. The AP may be implemented for example with a System on Chip SoC . The AP may further include a Graphic Processing Unit GPU .

The communication module e.g. the communication interface performs data transmission reception in communication between other electronic devices e.g. the electronic device or the server connected with the electronic device through a network. The communication module includes a cellular module a Wi Fi module a BlueTooth BT module a Global Positioning System GPS module a Near Field Communication NFC module and a Radio Frequency RF module .

The cellular module provides a voice call a video call a text service an internet service etc. through a communication network e.g. Long Term Evolution LTE LTE Advanced LTE A Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Wideband CDMA WCDMA Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS Wireless Broadband WiBro and Global System for Mobile communication GSM etc. . In addition the cellular module identifies and authenticates the electronic device within the communication network by using a SIM card . The cellular module may perform at least some of functions that can be provided by the AP . For example the cellular module may perform at least some of multimedia control functions.

The cellular module includes a Communication Processor CP . Further the cellular module may be implemented for example with an SoC. Although elements such as the cellular module e.g. the CP the memory and the power management module are illustrated as separate elements with respect to the AP in the AP may also be implemented such that at least one part e.g. the cellular module of the aforementioned elements is included in the AP .

The AP or the cellular module e.g. the CP loads an instruction or data which is received from each non volatile memory connected thereto or at least one of different elements to a volatile memory and processes the instruction or data. In addition the AP or the cellular module stores data which is received from at least one of different elements or generated by at least one of different elements into the non volatile memory.

Each of the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module includes a processor for processing data transmitted received through a corresponding module. Although the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module are illustrated in as separate blocks according to one embodiment at least some e.g. two or more of the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may be included in one Integrated Chip IC or IC package. For example at least some of processors corresponding to the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module e.g. a communication processor corresponding to the cellular module and a WiFi processor corresponding to the WiFi module may be implemented with an SoC.

The RF module transmits receives data for example an RF signal. The RF module may include for example a transceiver a Power Amp Module PAM a frequency filter a Low Noise Amplifier LNA etc. In addition the RF module may further include a component for transmitting receiving a radio wave on a free space in wireless communication for example a conductor a conducting wire etc. Although it is illustrated in that the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module share one RF module according to one embodiment at least one of the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module the NFC module may transmit receive an RF signal via a separate RF module.

The SIM card is a card which is inserted into a slot formed at a specific location of the electronic device . The SIM card includes unique identification information e.g. an Integrated Circuit Card IDentifier ICCID or subscriber information e.g. an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI .

The internal memory may include for example at least one of a volatile memory e.g. a Dynamic RAM DRAM a Static RAM SRAM a Synchronous Dynamic RAM SDRAM etc. or a non volatile memory e.g. a One Time Programmable ROM OTPROM a Programmable ROM PROM an Erasable and Programmable ROM EPROM an Electrically Erasable and Programmable ROM EEPROM a Mask ROM a Flash ROM a NAND flash memory a NOR flash memory etc. . The internal memory may be a Solid State Drive SSD .

The external memory may include a flash drive and may further include for example Compact Flash CF Secure Digital SD Micro Secure Digital Micro SD Mini Secure digital Mini SD extreme Digital xD memory stick and the like. The external memory may be operatively coupled to the electronic device via various interfaces.

The sensor module measures a physical quantity or detects an operation state of the electronic device and converts the measured or detected information into an electric signal. The sensor module includes for example at least one of a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B a barometric pressure sensor C a magnetic sensor D an acceleration sensor E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G a color sensor H e.g. a Red Green Blue RGB sensor a bio sensor I a temperature humidity sensor J an illumination sensor K and an Ultra Violet UV sensor M. Additionally or alternatively the sensor module may include for example an E node sensor an ElectroMyoGraphy EMG sensor an ElectroEncephaloGram EEG sensor an ElectroCardioGram ECG sensor a fingerprint sensor etc. The sensor module may further include a control circuit for controlling at least one or more sensors included therein.

The touch panel recognizes a touch input for example by using at least one of an electrostatic type a pressure sensitive type and an ultrasonic type. The touch panel may further include a control circuit. In case of the electrostatic type of touch panel not only is physical contact recognition possible but proximity recognition is also possible. The touch penal may further include a tactile layer. In this case the touch panel provides the user with a tactile reaction.

The digital pen sensor may be implemented for example by using the same or similar method of receiving a touch input of the user or by using an additional sheet for recognition.

The ultrasonic input unit is a device by which the electronic device detects a sound wave through a microphone by using a pen which generates an ultrasonic signal and is capable of radio recognition.

The electronic device may use the communication module to receive a user input from an external device e.g. a computer or a server connected thereto.

The panel may be for example a Liquid Crystal Display LCD an Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diode AM OLED etc. The panel may be implemented for example in a flexible transparent or wearable manner. The panel may be constructed as one module with the touch panel .

The projector displays an image by projecting a light beam onto a screen. The screen may be located inside or outside the electronic device .

The display may further include a control circuit for controlling the panel the hologram or the projector .

The interface includes for example a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI a Universal Serial Bus USB an optical communication interface or a D subminiature D sub . The interface may be included for example in the communication interface of . Additionally or alternatively the interface may include for example Mobile High definition Link MHL not shown Secure Digital SD Multi Media Card MMC or Infrared Data Association IrDA .

The audio module bilaterally converts a sound and electric signal. At least some elements of the audio module may be included in the input output interface of . The audio module converts sound information which is input or output through a speaker a receiver an earphone the microphone etc.

The camera module is a device for image and video capturing and may include one or more image sensors e.g. a front sensor or a rear sensor a lens an Image Signal Processor ISP not shown or a flash not shown e.g. LED or xenon lamp .

The power management module manages power of the electronic device . The power management module may include a Power Management Integrated Circuit PMIC a charger Integrated Circuit IC or a battery gauge.

The PMIC may be placed inside an IC or SoC semiconductor. Charging is classified into wired charging and wireless charging. The charger IC charges a battery and prevents an over voltage or over current flow from a charger. The charger IC includes a charger IC for at least one of the wired charging and the wireless charging.

The wireless charging may be classified for example into a magnetic resonance type a magnetic induction type and an electromagnetic type. An additional circuit for the wireless charging for example a coil loop a resonant circuit a rectifier etc. may be added.

The battery gauge measures for example a residual quantity of the battery and a voltage current and temperature during charging. The battery stores or generates electricity and supplies power to the electronic device by using the stored or generated electricity. The battery may include a rechargeable battery or a solar battery.

The indicator indicates a specific state for example a booting state a message state a charging state etc. of the electronic device or a part thereof e.g. the AP .

The electronic device includes a processing unit e.g. a GPU for supporting mobile TV. The processing unit for supporting mobile TV processes media data according to a protocol of for example Digital Multimedia Broadcasting DMB Digital Video Broadcasting DVB media flow etc.

Each of the aforementioned elements of the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may consist of one or more components and names thereof may vary depending on a type of electronic device. The electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one of the aforementioned elements. Some of the elements may be omitted or additional other elements may be further included. In addition some of the elements of the electronic device may be combined and constructed as one entity so as to equally perform functions of corresponding elements before combination.

The term module used herein may imply a unit including one of hardware software and firmware or a combination of them. The term module may be interchangeably used with terms such as unit logic logical block component circuit etc. The module may be a minimum unit of an integrally constituted component or may be a part thereof. The module may be a minimum unit for performing one or more functions or may be a part thereof. The module may be mechanically or electrically implemented. For example the module of the present disclosure includes at least one of an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC chip a Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs and a programmable logic device which are known or will be developed and which perform certain operations.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure at least some parts of a device e.g. modules or functions thereof or method e.g. operations may be implemented with an instruction stored in a computer readable storage media for example. The instruction may be executed by one or more processors e.g. the processor to perform a function corresponding to the instruction. The computer readable storage media may be for example the memory . At least some parts of the programming module may be implemented e.g. executed for example by the processor . At least some parts of the programming module may include modules programs routines sets of instructions processes and the like for performing one or more functions.

The computer readable recording medium may be a hardware device configured particularly to store and perform a program instruction e.g. program module for example a hard disk a magnetic medium such as a floppy disc and a magnetic tape an optical storage medium such as a Compact Disc ROM CD ROM or a Digital Versatile Disc DVD a magnetic optic medium such as a floptical disc a Read Only Memory ROM a Random Access Memory RAM a flash memory etc. An example of the program instruction includes not only a machine language created by a compiler but also a high level programming language executable by a computer by using an interpreter or the like. The aforementioned hardware device may be configured to operate as one or more software modules to perform the operation of the present disclosure and vice versa.

The module or programming module according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may further include at least one or more elements among the aforementioned elements may omit some of them or may further include additional elements. Operations performed by a module programming module or other elements may be executed in a sequential parallel repetitive or heuristic manner. In addition some of the operations may be executed in a different order or may be omitted or other operations may be added.

While the present disclosure has been shown and described with reference to certain embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure. Therefore the scope of the present disclosure is defined not by the detailed description of the present disclosure but by the appended claims and their equivalents and all differences within the scope will be construed as being included in the present disclosure.

