---

title: Adaptive audio guidance navigation
abstract: In a method for providing adaptive audio guidance, determining, by one or more processors, a route of a computing device, wherein the route is from an initial location of the computing device to a destination. Determining, by one or more processors, an estimated time of arrival at which the computing device would arrive at the destination. Prompting, by one or more processors, a user to input a desired arrival time. Determining, by one or more processors, whether to provide audio guidance based on a determination of whether the estimated time of arrival is within a pre-determined time period before the desired arrival time.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09587955&OS=09587955&RS=09587955
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09587955
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151012
---
The present invention relates generally to the field of navigation devices and more particularly to adaptive audio guidance for navigation devices.

Global Positioning System GPS is a satellite based navigation system made up of a network of satellites placed in orbit. GPS satellites circle the Earth and continually transmit messages to Earth that include the time the message was transmitted and the satellites position at the time of the message transmission. A GPS receiver uses the messages it receives from multiple satellites to determine the transit time of each message to calculate the location of the GPS receiver.

A GPS navigation device which contains a GPS receiver is used by a user to navigate to a destination by providing directions to the desired destination. GPS navigation devices can be in the form of portable standalone commercial devices such as hand held GPS units and automobile units. GPS technology is increasingly integrated into other technologies such as cameras and cellular phones. GPS enabled devices such as cameras and cellular phones typically use an assisted GPS which uses data from networks in conjunction with GPS satellites to provide a location of and to the device. Cellular networks and internet networks are examples of networks that assisted GPS enables devices use for navigation. GPS navigation devices generally have pre installed embedded software which contain interactive maps such as street maps.

Aspects of the present invention disclose a method for providing adaptive audio guidance. The method includes determining by one or more processors a route of a computing device wherein the route is from an initial location of the computing device to a destination. The method further includes determining by one or more processors an estimated time of arrival at which the computing device would arrive at the destination. The method further includes prompting by one or more processors a user to input a desired arrival time. The method further includes determining by one or more processors whether to provide audio guidance based on a determination of whether the estimated time of arrival is within a pre determined time period before the desired arrival time.

Embodiments of the present invention recognize that when a user uses a navigation device such as a Global Positioning System GPS device to navigate to a destination a user may not want audio guidance for the entire route. Embodiments of the present invention allow a user to travel a determined route with limited distractions for portions of the route by muting audio guidance until audio guidance is desired.

Client computing device may be a laptop computer tablet computer personal digital assistant PDA smart phone handheld GPS device automobile GPS device or any device capable of receiving and processing GPS signals. In general client computing device may be any electronic device or computing system capable of executing computer readable program instructions and communicating with satellites . In one embodiment client computing device contains location application programming interface API storage navigation program and audio determination function . Client computing device may include components as depicted and described in further detail with respect to .

In an embodiment satellites represent multiple satellites of a Global Positioning System that provide messages to GPS receivers. The messages may include the position of satellites and the time satellites transmitted their location. A GPS receiver not shown uses the messages provided by satellites to determine the location of client computing device by performing a calculation containing the position of satellites and the time satellites transmitted their location. In another embodiment satellites represent multiple satellites from an alternative satellite navigation system e.g. GLONASS Galileo or BeiDou 2 .

Location API is an application programming interface that a program can call to receive the location of client computing device . Location API s are application programming interfaces that programs can use to determine the location of a device. The location API receives the geographic location of a device from a GPS receiver not shown . A GPS receiver is integrated into or connected to client computing device . A GPS receiver can determine the geographic location of client computing device and present the geographic location of client computing device as longitude and latitude coordinates. In the depicted embodiment location API resides on client computing device .

In another embodiment the geographic location of client computing device is determined by a mobile operator and sent to client computing device to be made available by accessing location API s e.g. location API . A mobile operator may be a cellular telephone carrier if client computing device is a device capable of communicating with a cellular operator e.g. a cellular phone or a tablet . Cellular networks can determine the geographic location of a device that can communicate with cellular networks by using radio resource location services protocol. Radio resource location services protocol supports the positioning method Enhanced Observed Time Difference E OTD . E OTD is based on measurements inside the cellular telephone where the phone measures the observed time difference of arrival of burst sent by nearby pairs of base transceiver stations.

In another embodiment the geographic location of client computing device is determined by assisted GPS A GPS and made available by accessing location API s e.g. location API . Data from networks in conjunction with GPS satellites provide the location of the client computing device . Cellular networks and internet networks are examples of networks that assisted GPS enabled devices use for navigation. A GPS is mostly dependent on an internet service provider and or a cellular network provider. A GPS servers deployed by A GPS network providers download orbital information from satellites and stores the information in an A GPS database. An A GPS enabled device can connect to A GPS servers and download information from the servers.

In an embodiment storage is a repository that may be written and or read by navigation program . Storage may store data that includes but is not limited to previously traveled routes maps user preferences and addresses. In one embodiment storage resides on client computing device . In other embodiments storage may reside on another computing device provided that storage is accessible to navigation program over a network. The network may be a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN such as the Internet any combination thereof or any combination of connections and protocols that will support communications between client computing device and a computing device hosting storage in accordance with embodiments of the invention. The network may include wired wireless or fiber optic connections.

Navigation program executes on client computing device . In an embodiment navigation program provides a user interface not shown to input a destination as well as user preferences such as providing silent navigation e.g. providing visual directions without providing audio guidance when audio guidance is not desired by a user. In one embodiment the user may be a pedestrian. In another embodiment the user may be a bicyclist. In other embodiments the user may be a traveler using any method of travel. In another embodiment navigation program executes on another device as long as navigation program has access to audio determination function location API and storage .

Navigation program also determines the initial location of client computing device . In an embodiment the initial location is the location of client computing device when a user inputs a destination. In one embodiment navigation program calls location API of client computing device in order to receive the location of client computing device .

In an embodiment based on the initial location of client computing device individual user preferences and a cartographic database navigation program determines a route from the initial location to the destination inputted into navigation program . Navigation program periodically calls location API of client computing device to receive the location of client computing device as the route is traveled and the destination is reached. A route as determined by navigation program includes a series of coordinates from the initial location of client computing device to the final destination and directions for the user to follow as the user travels from the initial location to the destination such as directions for roads to follow turns to make etc. In an embodiment navigation program stores the determined route in storage . In an embodiment navigation program may provide visual directions when audio guidance is disabled.

Audio determination function operates to determine whether audio guidance should be provided to a user at a particular time or geographic location. Audio determination function can receive data from location API storage and navigation program . In an embodiment audio determination function determines whether to provide the user with audio guidance on the determined route by using data from location API and storage . The data may include routes the user previously traveled. The data may be generated by location API navigation program and or the user.

In an embodiment audio determination function disables audio guidance for portions of the determined route that the user previously traveled. In an embodiment audio determination function recognizes locations that are familiar to a user. The familiar locations can encompass surrounding areas within a particular radius. In another embodiment a user inputs familiar locations to audio determination function . In an embodiment audio determination function disables audio guidance for a specified radius surrounding the previously traveled route.

In other embodiments audio determination function disables audio guidance for a distance or number of turns specified by the user. In other embodiments audio determination function disables audio guidance if the user is traveling in the direction of the destination. In one embodiment audio determination function prompts the user to select locations on a determined route that the user does not desire audio guidance while navigating to the destination. The locations are identified by waypoints positions based on geographic coordinate values such as latitude longitude . In another embodiment audio determination function calculates an estimated time of arrival to a determined destination and monitors the location of client computing device to send the user alerts if the user will be late to the determined destination. In one embodiment audio determination function resides on client computing device . In other embodiments audio determination function resides on another server or another computing device provided that audio determination function is able to communicate with navigation program location API and storage .

In one embodiment initially a user of client computing device activates navigation program . In one embodiment navigation program is activated by the user powering on client computing device . In another embodiment navigation program is activated by the user opening navigation program on client computing device via a user interface not shown .

In one embodiment upon activation navigation program determines the initial location of client computing device by calling API to receive the location of client computing device .

In step navigation program determines a route from the initial location of client computing device to a destination. In one embodiment navigation program receives an address from the user that the user wants navigation program to locate and determine a navigational route to. Navigation program determines the route by using algorithms and waypoints stored in storage . For example the user is in Albany N.Y. and inputs an address that is located in Syracuse N.Y. Navigation program determines a navigation route from the initial location of client computing device in Albany N.Y. to the inputted address that is located in Syracuse N.Y.

In determination step audio determination function determines if the user previously traveled any portion of the determined route. In an embodiment audio determination function determines if the user has previously traveled any portion of the determined route by comparing the determined route to locations that the user has previously traveled. For example navigation program can use a track log not shown to record the locations a user has traveled and stores the locations in storage . Audio determination function compares the determined route to the locations stored in storage to determine if any locations in storage are on the determined route. In another embodiment audio determination function determines previously traveled routes based on user input. For example the user inputs locations the user has traveled that were not previously stored in storage . In yet another embodiment audio determination function determines the user previously traveled a portion of the determined route based on whether the user is familiar with certain locations.

In an embodiment audio determination function receives input from the user for the portion s of the determined route that the user does not want audio determination function to provide audio guidance. In another embodiment audio determination function determines that a portion of the route is familiar to the user based on the number of times that the user has previously traveled through waypoints on or near the determined route that exceeds a threshold. For example audio determination function determines that a user is familiar with a portion of the determined route based on the number of times the user previously traveled that portion of the route by a number of times that exceeds a set threshold. The threshold may be a default setting a setting based on algorithms a setting set by a user or a combination.

In yet another embodiment audio determination function determines that a portion of the determined route or all of the determined route is familiar to the user based on the proximity of the waypoint s on the determined route compared to the waypoints the user previously traveled that are stored in storage or waypoints that the user inputted as familiar or previously traveled. In an embodiment a waypoint on the determined route is familiar to the user if the proximity of the waypoint is within a determined radius of previously traveled or inputted waypoints. For example navigation program determines a route for a user. Audio determination function determines that a portion of the determined route is familiar to the user since that portion of the determined route is located within a mile radius of waypoints that the user traveled a number of times that exceeds a threshold. In an embodiment the threshold is a default setting. In another embodiment the threshold is determined by the user. In other embodiments the threshold is determined by a computer algorithm. In an embodiment the length of the familiar radius is a default setting. In another embodiment audio determination function receives input from a user indicating the length of the familiar radius. In an embodiment the familiar radius is from a designated location e.g. a user s house or place of employment or any other destination the user frequently travels to . For example audio determination function receives input from the user that waypoints within a five mile radius of the user s home are familiar areas to the user. In another embodiment the familiar radius is from waypoints the user has previously traveled or inputted as familiar. For example audio determination function determines waypoints within a two mile radius of previously traveled waypoints are familiar.

In an embodiment audio determination function does not provide audio guidance if the user is within a determined distance from waypoints on the determined route. For example audio determination function receives input from a user to mute audio guidance within a mile of the determined route. Audio determination function does not provide audio guidance to the user if client computing device deviates from the determined route provided that client computing device remains within a mile of the determined route at any point along the route from the initial starting point to the destination.

If audio determination function determines the user has previously traveled a portion of the determined route processing proceeds down the Yes branch to step .

If audio determination function determines the user has not previously traveled a portion of the determined route processing proceeds down the No branch to step . In step navigation program provides audio guidance for the entire determined route. In one embodiment audio determination function causes navigation program to provide audio guidance from the initial location of client computing device to the destination of the determined route. Processing ends when the client computing device reaches the destination of the determined route.

In step audio determination function determines where on the determined route to provide audio guidance. In an embodiment audio determination function determines that audio guidance will be provided for portions of the determined route the user has not previously traveled.

In determination step audio determination function determines whether client computing device has reached a portion of the determined route where audio guidance will be provided. In an embodiment audio determination function determines whether client computing device has reached the portion of the determined route where audio guidance will be provided by analyzing the data that navigation program periodically collects from calling location API of client computing device . The data contains information such as the geographic location of client computing device at a moment in time. The data can be stored in storage .

For example audio determination function determined audio guidance should be provided at the middle of the determined route. Audio determination function determines that client computing device is at a waypoint that is at the first quarter of the determined route. Since client computing device has not reached the middle of the route audio determination function determines that client computing device has not reached a portion of the determined route where audio guidance will be provided. As client computing device travels toward the desired destination navigation program periodically calls location API to calculate and determine client computing device s geographic location at the time navigation program called location API . Navigation program knows the location of client computing device at any given time by calling location API . Based on the location of client computing device audio determination function determines if client computing device has reached a particular location on the determined route.

If audio determination function determines a user has not reached a portion of the determined route that audio determination function determined audio guidance would be provided processing proceeds down the No branch back to determination step .

If audio determination function determines client computing device has reached a portion of the determined route that audio determination function has determined audio guidance would be provided processing proceeds down the Yes branch to step . In step audio determination function causes navigation program to provide audio guidance for the portion of the determined route audio determination function determined audio guidance should be provided for. For example the user wants audio guidance to begin at the middle of the navigation route. Audio determination function determines that client computing device has reached the middle of the determined route. Audio determination function causes navigation program to provide audio guidance for the user while traveling on the portion of the determined route. Processing ends when client computing device arrives at the desired destination of the determined route. In another embodiment if client computing device leaves the portion of the determined route that audio determination function has determined audio guidance would be provided before reaching the destination audio guidance is disabled.

In an embodiment initially a user of client computing device activates navigation program . In one embodiment navigation program is activated by the user powering on client computing device . In another embodiment navigation program is activated by the user opening navigation program on client computing device via a user interface not shown .

In an embodiment upon activation navigation program determines the initial location of client computing device by calling API to receive the location of client computing device .

In step navigation program determines a route from the initial location of client computing device to a destination. In an embodiment navigation program receives an address from the user that the user wants navigation program to locate and determine a navigational route for. Navigation program determines the route by using algorithms and waypoints stored in storage . For example the user is in Albany N.Y. and inputs an address that is located in Syracuse N.Y. Navigation program determines a navigation route from client computing device s initial location in Albany N.Y. to the inputted address that is located in Syracuse N.Y.

In step audio determination function prompts the user to select a portion of the determined route the user wants navigation program to provide audio guidance. In an embodiment audio determination function causes navigation program to display a prompt on the screen of client computing device . In an embodiment the prompt on the screen is a menu of options that the user selects from. For example navigation program prompts the user with a visual display integrated with a touchscreen interface that receives input from the user. In another embodiment navigation program gives the user an audible voice prompt. In other embodiments navigation program prompts the user with a combination of visual and audible prompts.

In step audio determination function receives input from the user. In an embodiment audio determination function receives input from the user to provide audio guidance for a measured distance or for a number of turns or steps on the determined route. The turns on the determined route include left hand and right hand turns. The steps of the determined route are the individual directions along the determined route. For example step one instructs the user to go straight for a half of a mile. The second step instructs the user to makes a right hand turn at the intersection at the end of the half of a mile from step one. In an embodiment audio determination function provides audio guidance for any portion s of the determined route selected by the user.

In an example navigation program determines a route that is twenty miles long with ten steps. Audio determination function receives input from the user to provide audio guidance for a measured distance of five miles beginning at the sixth mile of the determined route and ending at the eleventh mile of the determined route. Input from the user can be in the form of a voice audible command a touchscreen input or a combination of a voice audible command and touchscreen input. In another example audio determination function receives input from the user to provide audio guidance starting at the initial location of a determined route for the first ten miles of the determined route that is twenty miles in length. In yet another example audio determination function receives input from the user to provide audio guidance for the last five miles of a determined route that is twelve miles in length. In yet another example audio determination function receives input from the user to provide audio guidance when client computing device reaches the quarter point of the determined route and to stop providing audio guidance when client computing device reaches the halfway point of the determined route.

In alternative embodiments audio determination function receives input from the user to provide intermittent audio guidance to the user. For example navigation program determines a route that is twenty miles long. Audio determination function receives inputs from the user to provide intermittent audio guidance for multiple portions of the determined route selected by the user. Audio determination function receives input from the user to provide audio guidance at the following portions of the determined route mile two to mile four mile five to mile eight and mile sixteen to mile nineteen.

In an embodiment audio determination function receives input from the user to provide audio guidance for a specified number of turns or steps on a determined route. For example audio determination function receives input from the user to provide audio guidance for the first five turns of a determined route that consists of fifteen turns. In another example audio determination function receives input from the user to provide audio guidance for the last ten steps of the determined route that consists of eighteen steps.

In other embodiments audio determination function receives input from the user to provide audio guidance for any combination of turns steps and or measured distance of the determined route. For example navigation program determines a route that is ten miles long and has eight turns. Audio determination function receives input from the user to provide audio guidance for the first five turns of the determined route and for the last four miles of the determined route.

In determination step audio determination function determines whether client computing device has reached the portion of the determined route where the user wants audio guidance provided. In an embodiment audio determination function determines whether client computing device has reached the portion of the determined route where the user wants audio guidance provided by analyzing the data navigation program periodically collects from calling location API of client computing device . The data includes information such as the geographic location of client computing device at a moment in time. In some embodiments the data is stored in storage . For example as client computing device travels toward the desired destination navigation program periodically calls location API to calculate and determine the geographic location of client computing device at the time navigation program called location API . Navigation program knows the location of client computing device at any given time by calling location API . Based on the location of client computing device audio determination function can determine if client computing device has reached a particular location on the determined route.

If audio determination function determines client computing device has not reached the portion of the determined route where the user wants audio guidance provided processing proceeds down the No branch back to determination step . The process continues until client computing device reaches the portion of the determined route where the user wants audio guidance provided.

If audio determination function determines client computing device has reached the portion of the determined route where the user wants audio guidance provided processing proceeds down the Yes branch to step . In step audio determination function provides audio guidance. In an embodiment audio determination function causes navigation program to provide audio guidance. For example audio determination function receives input from the user to provide audio guidance ten miles before the client computing device reaches the desired destination. Navigation program periodically calls location API to determine where on the determined route client computing device is located. When audio determination function determines client computing device is ten miles from the desired destination audio determination function causes navigation program to provide audio guidance. Processing ends when the user arrives at the destination of the determined route. In another embodiment if client computing device leaves the portion of the determined route that audio determination function has determined audio guidance would be provided before reaching the destination audio guidance is disabled.

In an embodiment initially a user of client computing device activates navigation program . In an embodiment navigation program is activated by the user powering on client computing device . In another embodiment navigation program is activated by the user opening navigation program on client computer device via a user interface not shown .

In an embodiment upon activation navigation program determines the initial location of client computing device by calling API to receive the location of client computing device .

In step navigation program determines a route from the initial location of client computing device to the destination. In an embodiment navigation program receives an address from the user that the user wants navigation program to locate and determine a navigational route for. Navigation program determines the route by using algorithms and waypoints stored in storage . For example the user lives in Albany N.Y. and inputs an address that is located in Syracuse N.Y. Navigation program determines a navigation route from the initial location of client computing device in Albany N.Y. to the inputted address that is located in Syracuse N.Y.

In step navigation program determines an estimated time of arrival and prompts the user to select a desired time of arrival. In an embodiment navigation program determines an estimated time of arrival from the initial location of client computing device to the inputted destination and prompts the user to select a time that the user desires to arrive at the inputted destination no later than. In an embodiment navigation program determines an estimated time of arrival by taking into account information such as but not limited to cartographic data and the velocity client computing device is traveling.

In an embodiment audio determination function prompts the user to select a time the user desires to arrive at the inputted destination no later than. In the same embodiment audio determination function also prompts the user to input how long before the inputted arrival time the user wants audio determination function to provide the user with audio guidance.

For example a user inputs a destination. Navigation program determines a route and an estimated time of arrival to the destination. The estimated time of arrival from the initial location of client computing device to the inputted destination is one hour. The user inputs that the user wants to arrive at the destination no later than five o clock in the evening. The user begins traveling with client computing device along the determined route to the inputted destination at one o clock in the afternoon. The user plans to make stops and take detours while en route to the inputted destination. Audio determination function receives input from the user for audio determination function to alert the user with audio guidance when based on the location of client computing device and the estimated time of arrival of client computing device from the location of client computing device to the inputted destination client computing device will arrive at the destination thirty minutes before the desired time of arrival five o clock in the evening or after if client computing device travels directly from the current location of client computing device at the time of the alert to the inputted destination without further stops or detours.

In step navigation program monitors the location of client computing device . In an embodiment navigation program monitors the location of client computing device using geographic coordinate values such as latitude longitude. Navigation program uses geographic data and algorithms to estimate the time of arrival based on the current geographic location of client computing device compared to the inputted destination.

In determination step audio determination function determines whether to provide the user with audio guidance. In an embodiment audio determination function determines whether to provide the user with audio guidance. In an embodiment as client computing device travels toward the inputted destination audio determination function uses the data that navigation program collects periodically by calling location API of client computing device to determine the geographic location of client computing device at the time navigation program called location API . The data includes information such as but not limited to the geographic location of client computing device at a moment in time. The data may be stored in storage . Based on the location of client computing device the time the user desires to arrive at the destination and or receive audio guidance the current time and the estimated time of arrival from current location of client computing device audio determination function determines whether to provide the user with audio guidance.

In an embodiment audio guidance is a way to alert the user that the user needs to travel directly to the destination if the user wants to arrive at the inputted destination by the inputted time. In another embodiment audio guidance is given to the user to make the user aware of how much time the user has to arrive at the inputted destination. For example audio determination function provides the user audio guidance. The user has an additional thirty minutes to spare to arrive at the inputted destination by the inputted time from the current location of client computing device . The user determines to make one more stop that will take ten minutes. Afterward the user and client computing device travel directly to the inputted destination.

For example a user inputs a destination. Navigation program determines a route and an estimated time of arrival to the destination. The estimated time of arrival from the initial location of client computing device to the inputted destination is one hour. The user is familiar with the determined route and does not need audio guidance. However the user plans to make stops and take detours while en route to the inputted destination. To ensure that the user does not arrive at the destination late audio determination function receives input from the user that the user wants to arrive at the destination no later than five o clock in the evening. Audio determination function receives input from the user for audio determination function to provide audio guidance to the user when based on the location of client computing device and the estimated time of arrival of client computing device from the location of client computing device to the inputted destination client computing device will arrive at the destination thirty minutes before the desired time of arrival five o clock in the evening or after if client computing device travels directly from the current location of client computing device at the time audio guidance is provided to the user to the time it would take for client computing device to reach the inputted destination without further stops or detours. The user begins traveling with client computing device along the determined route to the inputted destination at one o clock in the afternoon. At four o clock in the afternoon client computing device is 30 minutes away from the inputted destination based on the current location of client computing device and the estimated time of arrival to the inputted destination. Audio determination function determines to provide the user with audio guidance. The user is now aware of how much time the user has to arrive at the inputted destination. Based on the remaining time the user decides to take a ten minute detour before traveling directly to the inputted destination.

If audio determination function determines not to provide the user with audio guidance processing proceeds down the No branch back to determination step . In an embodiment the process continues until audio determination function determines to provide the user with audio guidance or client computing device reaches the destination.

If audio determination function determines to provide the user with audio guidance processing proceeds down the Yes branch to step . In step audio determination function provides the user with audio guidance. In an embodiment when audio guidance is provided audio determination function informs the user of the estimated time of arrival that client computing device will arrive at the inputted destination based on the current geographic location of client computing device . In an embodiment audio guidance is provided in conjunction with visual guidance shown on the screen of client computing device . In some embodiments the visual guidance is in the form of a heads up or head up display HUD or other technology that displays a visualization for the user. In an embodiment audio determination function provides the user with audio guidance until client computing device is on the determined route traveling directly to the inputted destination. In other embodiments audio determination function provides the user with audio guidance intermittently or in set time intervals. The intervals can be a default setting or pre selected by the user or based on an algorithm. In some embodiments after audio determination function initially determines to provide audio guidance audio determination function provides audio guidance any time client computing device travels off of the determined route. In an embodiment after audio determination function initially determines to provide audio guidance audio guidance is provided for the duration of the trip.

For example navigation program determines that the inputted destination is located an hour from the current location of client computing device . The user desires to arrive at the inputted destination no later than five o clock in the evening. Audio determination function receives input from the user to provide the user with audio guidance when client computing device will arrive at the inputted destination a half an hour before five o clock in the evening based on the estimated time of arrival from the location of client computing device . Audio determination function also receives input from the user to provide the user with audio guidance every five minutes once audio determination function determines to provide the user with audio guidance. The user begins to travel with client computing device at one o clock in the afternoon. When audio determination function determines client computing device will arrive at the inputted destination a half an hour before five o clock in the evening based on the estimated time of arrival from the current location of client computing device audio determination function provides the user with audio guidance so that the user is aware that client computing device will arrive at the destination a half an hour before five o clock based on the current location of client computing device and the estimated time of arrival from the location of client computing device . The user decides to make one more stop that takes five minutes. Audio determination function provides the user with audio guidance five minutes after audio determination function determined to provide the user with audio guidance. Afterward the user travels directly to the destination without further detours. Audio determination function no longer provides the user audio guidance in five minute intervals once client computing device begins traveling directly to the inputted destination. If the user makes another detour or stop audio determination function provides the user with audio guidance again. Processing ends when client computing device reaches the inputted destination.

In an embodiment initially a user of client computing device activates navigation program . In an embodiment navigation program is activated by the user powering on client computing device . In another embodiment navigation program is activated by the user opening navigation program on client computer device via a user interface not shown .

In an embodiment upon activation navigation program determines the initial location of client computing device by calling API to receive the location of client computing device .

In step navigation program determines a route from the initial location of client computing device to a destination. In an embodiment navigation program receives an address from the user that the user wants navigation program to locate and determine a navigational route for. Navigation program determines the route by using algorithms and waypoints stored in storage . For example the user lives in Albany N.Y. and inputs an address that is located in Syracuse N.Y. Navigation program determines a navigational route from the initial location of client computing device in Albany N.Y. to the inputted address that is located in Syracuse N.Y.

In step audio determination function prompts the user to select a degree range relative to the inputted destination. In an embodiment audio determination function prompts the user to select a degree range that the user wants client computing device to remain within relative to the inputted destination without audio guidance. For example audio determination function receives input from the user for audio determination function to provide audio guidance for the user if client computing device is in a location that is more than 45 degrees from either side of a central line established from the previous location to the inputted destination.

In an embodiment the degree range is measured from a central line. The central line is a straight line 180 degrees that is established from a previous location of client computing device to the inputted destination with the previous location and the inputted destination as endpoints of the central line. In an embodiment the central line bisects the inputted degree range measurement. For example audio determination function receives input from the user that the user wants audio determination function to provide audio guidance if client computing device is in a location that is more than 45 degrees from either side of a central line established from the previous location to the inputted destination. For example in central line is established between initial location and destination . Initial location and destination are endpoints of central line . Angle is 90 degrees. Central line bisects angle . Audio determination function does not provide audio guidance if client computing device is in a location that is not more than 45 degrees from either side of central line .

In an embodiment the position of the central line varies. The central line is relative to the previous location of client computing device and the inputted destination. As client computing device travels the central line moves with client computing device . In for example client computing device travels from initial location to location . Central line is established as the new central line. Location and destination are endpoints of central line . Angle is 90 degrees.

In an embodiment the position of the central line varies at certain intervals. For example the central line may be moved after a certain time period a certain distance traveled etc. In an embodiment audio determination function monitors client computing device via navigation program by intermittently e.g. intervals of time or distance determining the current geographic location of client computing device . For example navigation program determines the current location of client computing device every 15 seconds. In another example navigation program determines the location of client computing device every half mile. In an embodiment the time or distance interval is a default setting. In other embodiments the time or distance interval is inputted by the user.

In determination step audio determination function determines if client computing device traveled to a location that is outside of the inputted degree range from either side of a central line established from the previous location to the inputted destination. In an embodiment audio determination function determines if client computing device traveled to a location that is outside of the inputted degree range from either side of a central line established from the previous location to the inputted destination by continually monitoring the current geographic location of client computing device compared to the previous geographic location of client computing device via navigation program . In for example audio determination function via navigation program determines if location current location of client computing device is outside the degree range of angle from either side of central line established from initial location previous location to destination .

If audio determination function determines client computing device has not traveled to a location that is outside the inputted degree range from either side of a central line established from the previous location to the inputted destination processing proceeds down the No branch back to determination step . The process continues until client computing device travels to a location that is outside the inputted degree range or has reached the destination. For example in location current location of client computing device is not outside of the degree range of angle from either side of central line established from initial location previous location to destination .

If audio determination function determines client computing device has traveled to a location that is outside of the inputted degree range from either side of a central line established from the previous location to the inputted destination processing proceeds down the Yes branch to step . In step audio determination function provides audio guidance. In an embodiment audio determination function provides the user with audio guidance via navigation program when client computing device travels to a location that is outside the inputted degree range from either side of a central line established from the previous location to the inputted destination.

In an embodiment audio guidance may be a verbal alert to inform the user that client computing device is at a location that is outside of the inputted degree range from either side of a central line established from the previous location to the inputted destination audible directions to re route the user or a combination. In another embodiment audio determination function provides audio guidance in conjunction with a visual prompt. The visual prompt may be in the form of a heads up or head up display HUD or other technology that displays a visualization for the user.

In determination step audio determination function determines if client computing device traveled to a location that is outside the inputted degree range from either side of a central line established from the previous location to the inputted destination again using a new central line determined after a certain interval. In an embodiment audio determination function completes processing similar to processing in determination step .

If audio determination function determines client computing device has traveled to a location that is outside of the inputted degree range from either side of a central line established from the previous location to the inputted destination again processing proceeds down the Yes branch back to step .

If audio determination function determines client computing device has not traveled to a location that is outside of the inputted degree range from either side of a central line established from the previous location to the inputted destination for the remainder of the trip processing proceeds down the No branch and processing ends.

In an alternative embodiment audio determination function does not provide audio guidance provided client computing device is traveling closer to the inputted destination. For example audio determination function does not provide audio guidance if the estimated time of arrival is shorter than the prior location of client computing device . In another embodiment audio determination function does not provide audio guidance if client computing device is traveling in the direction of the inputted destination. For example the inputted destination is located northwest of the initial location of client computing device . Audio determination function does not provide audio guidance provided client computing device is traveling north west or northwest.

In an embodiment initially a user of client computing device activates navigation program . In an embodiment navigation program is activated by the user powering on client computing device . In another embodiment navigation program is activated by the user opening navigation program on client computer device via a user interface not shown .

In an embodiment upon activation navigation program determines the initial location of client computing device by calling API to receive the location of client computing device .

In step navigation program determines a route from the initial location of client computing device to a destination. In an embodiment navigation program receives an address from the user that the user wants navigation program to locate and determine a navigational route for. Navigation program determines the route by using algorithms and waypoints stored in storage . For example the user lives in Albany N.Y. and inputs an address that is located in Syracuse N.Y. Navigation program determines a navigational route from the initial location of client computing device in Albany N.Y. to the inputted address that is located in Syracuse N.Y.

In step audio determination function prompts the user to select a degree range relative to the central line. In an embodiment audio determination function prompts the user to select a degree range that the user wants the compass direction of client computing device to remain within relative to the central line established from the initial location to the inputted destination. For example audio determination function receives input from the user for audio determination function to provide audio guidance for the user if the compass direction of client computing device is pointed in a direction at an angle that is outside of the inputted degree range of 90 degrees.

In an embodiment the degree range is measured from a central line. The central line is a straight line 180 degrees that is established from the initial location of client computing device to the inputted destination with the initial location and the inputted destination as endpoints of the central line. In an embodiment the central line bisects the inputted degree range measurement. For example audio determination function receives input from the user that the user wants audio determination function to provide audio guidance if the compass direction that client computing device is pointed in a compass direction that is at an angle that is outside of a 90 degree range.

For example in initial location and destination are endpoints of central line . Central line bisects angle . Angle is 90 degrees. Audio determination function does not provide audio guidance to the user if client computing device is traveling in a compass direction that is 45 degrees of either side of central line in a direction going toward the destination. In an embodiment the inputted degree range moves along the central line. For example the degree range remains relative to central line and moves as client computing device travels. If client computing device is traveling in a compass direction that is at an angle that is within the degree range from the central line audio guidance is not provided.

In an embodiment the angle measurement used to determine whether client computing device is traveling at an angle that is outside of the inputted degree range is the angle between the direction of travel and the central line going toward the destination. The direction of travel is a line that extends in the direction client computing device is traveling or facing from the current location of client computing device . The line of the direction of travel also extends to the central line. The angle between the direction of travel and the central line going toward the destination is the angle at which client computing device is traveling relative to the destination and the central line.

For example audio determination function receives input from the user to provide audio guidance if client computing device travels in a compass direction that is at an angle that is outside of a 90 degree range. In at location client computing device is traveling in a compass direction that is west of central line . The direction of travel of client computing device from location extends to central line . Angle between the direction of travel at location and central line going toward the destination is 45 degrees.

In step audio determination function determines a boundary. In an embodiment audio determination function determines the boundary based on the initial location the inputted destination and the inputted degree range. If client computing device crosses the boundary audio determination function provides audio guidance. In an embodiment the boundary prevents client computing device from going in a direction that is going away from the inputted destination. In for example audio determination function received input from the user that the user wants the compass direction of client computing device to remain within a 90 degree range of central line . Based on the degree range client computing device can have a compass direction that is at an angle that is within 45 degrees of either side of central line going toward destination . Angle is 45 degrees. Angle is the angle at which the compass direction of client computing device is pointed at location and at location . At location client computing device is traveling within the boundary and the inputted degree range. Audio determination function does not provide audio guidance for the user at location . At location audio determination function provides the user with audio guidance. Although client computing device has a compass direction that is pointed at an angle within the inputted degree range client computing device is traveling outside of the boundary therefore traveling in a direction that is going away from destination . Audio determination function provides the user with audio guidance when client computing device is at location .

In an embodiment the boundary spans the width and the height of the central line taking into account the inputted degree range. The boundary prevents client computing device from traveling away from the destination even if client computing device is within the inputted degree range. In for example audio determination function receives input from the user to provide audio guidance if client computing device has a compass direction that is pointed at an angle that is outside of a 90 degree range on the determined route. Central line is established between initial location and destination . The width between initial location and destination is the width of the boundary. The height between initial location and destination is the height of the boundary. Boundary takes into account the inputted degree range. Angle at initial location is 90 degrees 45 degrees on each side of central line as central line bisects angle .

In determination step audio determination function determines if client computing device is within the boundary. Audio determination function determines if client computing device is within the boundary based on analyzing the data that navigation program periodically collects from calling location API of client computing device . The data includes but is not limited to information such as the geographic location of client computing device at a moment in time. If the current geographic location of client computing device is outside of the perimeter of the boundary audio determination function determines that client computing device is not within the boundary. In for example at location audio determination function provides the user with audio guidance. Although client computing device has a compass direction that is at an angle within the inputted degree range client computing device is traveling outside of the boundary therefore traveling in a direction that is going away from destination . Audio determination function provides the user with audio guidance when client computing device is at location .

If audio determination function determines client computing device is outside of the boundary processing proceeds down the No branch to step . In step audio determination function provides audio guidance.

If audio determination function determines that client computing device is inside of the boundary processing proceeds down the Yes branch to determination step .

In determination step audio determination function determines whether client computing device is traveling or pointed in a compass direction that is within the selected degree range. In an embodiment audio determination function determines whether client computing device is traveling in a compass direction that is within the selected degree range by using data from navigation program to determine the direction client computing device is facing and by measuring the angle that is formed at the intersection of the central and the extended line of the direction of travel. In for example at location angle is the angle at which the compass direction of client computing device meets central line . Audio determination function determines client computing device is not traveling in a compass direction that is within the degree range since angle at 140 degrees exceeds the inputted degree range and client computing device is traveling northeast of destination which is southwest of client computing device . Although the direction of travel of client computing device is pointing northeast the line of the direction of travel extends back to central line to measure the angle client computing device is traveling relative to central line . Since angle exceeds the inputted degree range audio determination function provides audio guidance. At location angle is the angle at which the compass direction of client computing device meets central line . Angle is 25 degrees from central line . To calculate the measure of angle central line and the direction of travel line are extended until they intersect since the angle is formed beyond boundary . Since client computing device is traveling in a compass direction that is within the inputted degree range audio determination function does not provide audio guidance.

If audio determination function determines client computing device is not traveling in a compass direction within the inputted degree range processing proceeds down the No branch to step .

If audio determination function determines client computing device is traveling in a compass direction that is within the inputted degree range proceeding proceeds down the Yes branch to back to determination step .

In step audio determination function provides audio guidance. Audio determination function provides the user with audio guidance via navigation program . Audio guidance is provided until client computing device is traveling within the boundary in a compass direction that is within the inputted degree range or until client computing device arrives at the destination. If client computing device has not reached the destination and no longer needs audio guidance processing continues back to determination step . Processing ends when client computing device reaches the destination.

Client computing device may include communications fabric which provides communications between cache memory persistent storage communications unit and input output I O interface s . Communications fabric can be implemented with any architecture designed for passing data and or control information between processors such as microprocessors communications and network processors etc. system memory peripheral devices and any other hardware components within a system. For example communications fabric can be implemented with one or more buses or a crossbar switch.

Memory and persistent storage are computer readable storage media. In this embodiment memory includes random access memory RAM . In general memory can include any suitable volatile or non volatile computer readable storage media. Cache is a fast memory that enhances the performance of computer processor s by holding recently accessed data and data near accessed data from memory .

Location API storage navigation program and audio determination function may each be stored in persistent storage of client computing device and in memory of client computing device for execution by one or more of the respective computer processors via cache . In an embodiment persistent storage includes a magnetic hard disk drive. Alternatively or in addition to a magnetic hard disk drive persistent storage can include a solid state hard drive a semiconductor storage device read only memory ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM flash memory or any other computer readable storage media that is capable of storing program instructions or digital information.

The media used by persistent storage may also be removable. For example a removable hard drive may be used for persistent storage . Other examples include optical and magnetic disks thumb drives and smart cards that are inserted into a drive for transfer onto another computer readable storage medium that is also part of persistent storage .

Communications unit in these examples provides for communications with other data processing systems or devices. In these examples communications unit includes one or more network interface cards. Communications unit may provide communications through the use of either or both physical and wireless communications links. Location API storage navigation program and audio determination function may be downloaded to persistent storage of client computing device through communications unit of client computing device .

I O interface s allows for input and output of data with other devices that may be connected to client computing device . For example I O interface may provide a connection to external devices such as a keyboard keypad a touch screen and or some other suitable input device. External devices can also include portable computer readable storage media such as for example thumb drives portable optical or magnetic disks and memory cards. Software and data used to practice embodiments of the present invention e.g. location API storage navigation program and audio determination function can be stored on such portable computer readable storage media and can be loaded onto persistent storage of client computing device via I O interface s of client computing device . I O interface s also connect to a display .

The programs described herein are identified based upon the application for which they are implemented in a specific embodiment of the invention. However it should be appreciated that any particular program nomenclature herein is used merely for convenience and thus the invention should not be limited to use solely in any specific application identified and or implied by such nomenclature.

The present invention may be a system a method and or a computer program product. The computer program product may include a computer readable storage medium or media having computer readable program instructions thereon for causing a processor to carry out aspects of the present invention.

The computer readable storage medium can be a tangible device that can retain and store instructions for use by an instruction execution device. The computer readable storage medium may be for example but is not limited to an electronic storage device a magnetic storage device an optical storage device an electromagnetic storage device a semiconductor storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. A non exhaustive list of more specific examples of the computer readable storage medium includes the following a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory a static random access memory SRAM a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM a digital versatile disk DVD a memory stick a floppy disk a mechanically encoded device such as punch cards or raised structures in a groove having instructions recorded thereon and any suitable combination of the foregoing. A computer readable storage medium as used herein is not to be construed as being transitory signals per se such as radio waves or other freely propagating electromagnetic waves electromagnetic waves propagating through a waveguide or other transmission media e.g. light pulses passing through a fiber optic cable or electrical signals transmitted through a wire.

Computer readable program instructions described herein can be downloaded to respective computing processing devices from a computer readable storage medium or to an external computer or external storage device via a network for example the Internet a local area network a wide area network and or a wireless network. The network may comprise copper transmission cables optical transmission fibers wireless transmission routers firewalls switches gateway computers and or edge servers. A network adapter card or network interface in each computing processing device receives computer readable program instructions from the network and forwards the computer readable program instructions for storage in a computer readable storage medium within the respective computing processing device.

Computer readable program instructions for carrying out operations of the present invention may be assembler instructions instruction set architecture ISA instructions machine instructions machine dependent instructions microcode firmware instructions state setting data or either source code or object code written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The computer readable program instructions may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider . In some embodiments electronic circuitry including for example programmable logic circuitry field programmable gate arrays FPGA or programmable logic arrays PLA may execute the computer readable program instructions by utilizing state information of the computer readable program instructions to personalize the electronic circuitry in order to perform aspects of the present invention.

Aspects of the present invention are described herein with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer readable program instructions.

These computer readable program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks. These computer readable program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable storage medium that can direct a computer a programmable data processing apparatus and or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the computer readable storage medium having instructions stored therein comprises an article of manufacture including instructions which implement aspects of the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer readable program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other device to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other device to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer other programmable apparatus or other device implement the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of instructions which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . In some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or carry out combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

The descriptions of the various embodiments of the present invention have been presented for purposes of illustration but are not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the embodiments disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The terminology used herein was chosen to best explain the principles of the embodiment the practical application or technical improvement over technologies found in the marketplace or to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the embodiments disclosed herein.

