---

title: RFID tag memory check using wireless margin read commands
abstract: Data stored in nonvolatile memory on a Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) tag integrated circuit may have a “margin” associated with how strongly the data is written to the memory. Upon receiving a wireless margin read command, the RFID IC determines whether the margin for one of more data values stored in memory exceeds a margin threshold. The IC may determine the margin by applying bias voltages or currents to the memory cells storing the data values. If the determined margin does not exceed the margin threshold, the IC may respond with an error code.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09607191&OS=09607191&RS=09607191
owner: Impinj, Inc.
number: 09607191
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150611
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 62 011 539 filed on Jun. 12 2014. The disclosures of the above application are hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes.

Radio Frequency Identification RFID systems typically include RFID readers also known as RFID reader writers or RFID interrogators and RFID tags. RFID systems can be used in many ways for locating and identifying objects to which the tags are attached. RFID systems are useful in product related and service related industries for tracking objects being processed inventoried or handled. In such cases an RFID tag is usually attached to an individual item or to its package.

In principle RFID techniques entail using an RFID reader to inventory one or more RFID tags where inventorying involves at least singulating a tag and receiving an identifier from the singulated tag. Singulated is defined as a reader singling out one tag potentially from among multiple tags for a reader tag dialog. Identifier is defined as a number identifying the tag or the item to which the tag is attached such as a tag identifier TID electronic product code EPC etc. The reader transmitting a Radio Frequency RF wave performs the interrogation. The RF wave is typically electromagnetic at least in the far field. The RF wave can also be predominantly electric or magnetic in the near or transitional near field. The RF wave may encode one or more commands that instruct the tags to perform one or more actions.

In typical RFID systems an RFID reader transmits a modulated RF inventory signal a command receives a tag reply and transmits an RF acknowledgement signal responsive to the tag reply. A tag that senses the interrogating RF wave may respond by transmitting back another RF wave. The tag either generates the transmitted back RF wave originally or by reflecting back a portion of the interrogating RF wave in a process known as backscatter. Backscatter may take place in a number of ways.

The reflected back RF wave may encode data stored in the tag such as a number. The response is demodulated and decoded by the reader which thereby identifies counts or otherwise interacts with the associated item. The decoded data can denote a serial number a price a date a time a destination an encrypted message an electronic signature other attribute s any combination of attributes and so on. Accordingly when a reader receives tag data it can learn about the item that hosts the tag and or about the tag itself.

An RFID tag typically includes an antenna section a radio section a power management section and frequently a logical section a memory or both. In some RFID tags the power management section included an energy storage device such as a battery. RFID tags with an energy storage device are known as battery assisted semi active or active tags. Other RFID tags can be powered solely by the RF signal they receive. Such RFID tags do not include an energy storage device and are called passive tags. Of course even passive tags typically include temporary energy and data flag storage elements such as capacitors or inductors.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Embodiments are directed to determining data write strength also referred to as margin for data stored in nonvolatile memory on a Radio Frequency Identification RFID tag integrated circuit. Upon receiving a wireless margin read command the RFID IC determines whether the margin for one of more data values stored in memory exceeds a margin threshold. The IC may determine the margin by applying bias voltages or currents to the memory cells storing the data values. If the determined margin does not exceed the margin threshold the IC may respond with an error code.

These and other features and advantages will be apparent from a reading of the following detailed description and a review of the associated drawings. It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are explanatory only and are not restrictive of aspects as claimed.

In the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments or examples. These embodiments or examples may be combined other aspects may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

As used herein memory is one of ROM RAM SRAM DRAM NVM EEPROM FLASH Fuse MRAM FRAM and other similar information storage technologies as will be known to those skilled in the art. Some portions of memory may be writeable and some not. Command refers to a reader request for one or more tags to perform one or more actions and includes one or more tag instructions preceded by a command identifier or command code that identifies the command and or the tag instructions. Instruction refers to a request to a tag to perform a single explicit action e.g. write data into memory . Program refers to a request to a tag to perform a set or sequence of instructions e.g. read a value from memory and if the read value is less than a threshold then lock a memory word . Protocol refers to an industry standard for communications between a reader and a tag and vice versa such as the Class 1 Generation 2 UHF RFID Protocol for Communications at 860 MHz 960 MHz by GS1 EPCglobal Inc. Gen2 Specification versions 1.2.0 and 2.0 of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

Reader and tag communicate via signals and . When communicating each encodes modulates and transmits data to the other and each receives demodulates and decodes data from the other. The data can be modulated onto and demodulated from RF waveforms. The RF waveforms are typically in a suitable range of frequencies such as those near 900 MHz 13.56 MHz and so on.

The communication between reader and tag uses symbols also called RFID symbols. A symbol can be a delimiter a calibration value and so on. Symbols can be implemented for exchanging binary data such as 0 and 1 if that is desired. When symbols are processed by reader and tag they can be treated as values numbers and so on.

Tag can be a passive tag or an active or battery assisted tag i.e. a tag having its own power source . When tag is a passive tag it is powered from signal .

Tag is typically although not necessarily formed on a substantially planar inlay which can be made in many ways known in the art. Tag includes a circuit which may be implemented as an IC . In some embodiments IC is implemented in complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS technology. In other embodiments IC may be implemented in other technologies such as bipolar junction transistor BJT technology metal semiconductor field effect transistor MESFET technology and others as will be well known to those skilled in the art. IC is arranged on inlay .

Tag also includes an antenna for exchanging wireless signals with its environment. The antenna is often flat and attached to inlay . IC is electrically coupled to the antenna via suitable IC contacts not shown in . The term electrically coupled as used herein may mean a direct electrical connection or it may mean a connection that includes one or more intervening circuit blocks elements or devices. The electrical part of the term electrically coupled as used in this document shall mean a coupling that is one or more of ohmic galvanic capacitive and or inductive. Similarly the term electrically isolated as used herein means that electrical coupling of one or more types e.g. galvanic capacitive and or inductive is not present at least to the extent possible. For example elements that are electrically isolated from each other are galvanically isolated from each other capacitively isolated from each other and or inductively isolated from each other. Of course electrically isolated components will generally have some unavoidable stray capacitive or inductive coupling between them but the intent of the isolation is to minimize this stray coupling to a negligible level when compared with an electrically coupled path.

IC is shown with a single antenna port comprising two IC contacts electrically coupled to two antenna segments and which are shown here forming a dipole. Many other embodiments are possible using any number of ports contacts antennas and or antenna segments.

Diagram depicts top and side views of tag formed using a strap. Tag differs from tag in that it includes a substantially planar strap substrate having strap contacts and . IC is mounted on strap substrate such that the IC contacts on IC electrically couple to strap contacts and via suitable connections not shown . Strap substrate is then placed on inlay such that strap contacts and electrically couple to antenna segments and . Strap substrate may be affixed to inlay via pressing an interface layer one or more adhesives or any other suitable means.

Diagram depicts a side view of an alternative way to place strap substrate onto inlay . Instead of strap substrate s surface including strap contacts facing the surface of inlay strap substrate is placed with its strap contacts facing away from the surface of inlay . Strap contacts can then be either capacitively coupled to antenna segments through strap substrate or conductively coupled using a through via which may be formed by crimping strap contacts to antenna segments . In some embodiments the positions of strap substrate and inlay may be reversed with strap substrate mounted beneath inlay and strap contacts electrically coupled to antenna segments through inlay . Of course in yet other embodiments strap contacts may electrically couple to antenna segments through both inlay and strap substrate .

In operation the antenna receives a signal and communicates it to IC which both harvests power and responds if appropriate based on the incoming signal and the IC s internal state. If IC uses backscatter modulation then it responds by modulating the antenna s reflectance which generates response signal from signal transmitted by the reader. Electrically coupling and uncoupling the IC contacts of IC can modulate the antenna s reflectance as can varying the admittance of a shunt connected circuit element which is coupled to the IC contacts. Varying the impedance of a series connected circuit element is another means of modulating the antenna s reflectance.

In the embodiments of antenna segments and are separate from IC . In other embodiments the antenna segments may alternatively be formed on IC . Tag antennas according to embodiments may be designed in any form and are not limited to dipoles. For example the tag antenna may be a patch a slot a loop a coil a horn a spiral a monopole microstrip stripline or any other suitable antenna.

The components of the RFID system of may communicate with each other in any number of modes. One such mode is called full duplex. Another such mode is called half duplex and is described below.

RFID reader and RFID tag talk and listen to each other by taking turns. As seen on axis TIME when reader talks to tag the communication session is designated as R T and when tag talks to reader the communication session is designated as T R . Along the TIME axis a sample R T communication session occurs during a time interval and a following sample T R communication session occurs during a time interval . Of course interval is typically of a different duration than interval here the durations are shown approximately equal only for purposes of illustration.

According to blocks and RFID reader talks during interval and listens during interval . According to blocks and RFID tag listens while reader talks during interval and talks while reader listens during interval .

In terms of actual behavior during interval reader talks to tag as follows. According to block reader transmits signal which was first described in . At the same time according to block tag receives signal and processes it to extract data and so on. Meanwhile according to block tag does not backscatter with its antenna and according to block reader has no signal to receive from tag .

During interval tag talks to reader as follows. According to block reader transmits a Continuous Wave CW signal which can be thought of as a carrier that typically encodes no information. This CW signal serves both to transfer energy to tag for its own internal power needs and also as a carrier that tag can modulate with its backscatter. Indeed during interval according to block tag does not receive a signal for processing. Instead according to block tag modulates the CW emitted according to block so as to generate backscatter signal . Concurrently according to block reader receives backscatter signal and processes it.

Circuit shows two IC contacts suitable for coupling to antenna segments such as antenna segments of RFID tag of . When two IC contacts form the signal input from and signal return to an antenna they are often referred to as an antenna port. IC contacts may be made in any suitable way such as from metallic pads and so on. In some embodiments circuit uses more than two IC contacts especially when tag has more than one antenna port and or more than one antenna.

Circuit includes signal routing section which may include signal wiring signal routing busses receive transmit switches and so on that can route a signal to the components of circuit . In some embodiments IC contacts couple galvanically and or inductively to signal routing section . In other embodiments such as is shown in circuit includes optional capacitors and or which if present capacitively couple IC contacts to signal routing section . This capacitive coupling causes IC contacts to be galvanically decoupled from signal routing section and other circuit components.

Capacitive coupling and resultant galvanic decoupling between IC contacts and or and components of circuit is desirable in certain situations. For example in some RFID tag embodiments IC contacts and may galvanically connect to terminals of a tuning loop on the tag. In this situation capacitors and or galvanically decouple IC contact from IC contact thereby preventing the formation of a short circuit between the IC contacts through the tuning loop.

Capacitors may be implemented within circuit and or partly or completely external to circuit . For example a dielectric or insulating layer on the surface of the IC containing circuit may serve as the dielectric in capacitor and or capacitor . As another example a dielectric or insulating layer on the surface of a tag substrate e.g. inlay or strap substrate may serve as the dielectric in capacitors . Metallic or conductive layers positioned on both sides of the dielectric layer i.e. between the dielectric layer and the IC and between the dielectric layer and the tag substrate may then serve as terminals of the capacitors . The conductive layers may include IC contacts e.g. IC contacts antenna segments e.g. antenna segments or any other suitable conductive layers.

Circuit also includes a rectifier and PMU Power Management Unit that harvests energy from the RF signal received by antenna segments to power the circuits of IC during either or both reader to tag R T and tag to reader T R sessions. Rectifier and PMU may be implemented in any way known in the art.

Circuit additionally includes a demodulator that demodulates the RF signal received via IC contacts . Demodulator may be implemented in any way known in the art for example including a slicer an amplifier and so on.

Circuit further includes a processing block that receives the output from demodulator and performs operations such as command decoding memory interfacing and so on. In addition processing block may generate an output signal for transmission. Processing block may be implemented in any way known in the art for example by combinations of one or more of a processor memory decoder encoder and so on.

Circuit additionally includes a modulator that modulates an output signal generated by processing block . The modulated signal is transmitted by driving IC contacts and therefore driving the load presented by the coupled antenna segment or segments. Modulator may be implemented in any way known in the art for example including a switch driver amplifier and so on.

In one embodiment demodulator and modulator may be combined in a single transceiver circuit. In another embodiment modulator may modulate a signal using backscatter. In another embodiment modulator may include an active transmitter. In yet other embodiments demodulator and modulator may be part of processing block .

Circuit additionally includes a memory to store data . At least a portion of memory is preferably implemented as a nonvolatile memory NVM which means that data is retained even when circuit does not have power as is frequently the case for a passive RFID tag.

In some embodiments particularly in those with more than one antenna port circuit may contain multiple demodulators rectifiers PMUs modulators processing blocks and or memories.

In terms of processing a signal circuit operates differently during a R T session and a T R session. The different operations are described below in this case with circuit representing an IC of an RFID tag.

Version A shows as relatively obscured those components that do not play a part in processing a signal during a R T session. Rectifier and PMU may be active such as for converting RF power. Modulator generally does not transmit during a R T session and typically does not interact with the received RF signal significantly either because switching action in section of decouples modulator from the RF signal or by designing modulator to have a suitable impedance and so on.

Although modulator is typically inactive during a R T session it need not be so. For example during a R T session modulator could be adjusting its own parameters for operation in a future session and so on.

Version B shows as relatively obscured those components that do not play a part in processing a signal during a T R session. Rectifier and PMU may be active such as for converting RF power. Demodulator generally does not receive during a T R session and typically does not interact with the transmitted RF signal significantly either because switching action in section of decouples demodulator from the RF signal or by designing demodulator to have a suitable impedance and so on.

Although demodulator is typically inactive during a T R session it need not be so. For example during a T R session demodulator could be adjusting its own parameters for operation in a future session and so on.

In typical embodiments demodulator and modulator are operable to demodulate and modulate signals according to a protocol such as the Gen2 Specification mentioned above. In embodiments where circuit includes multiple demodulators and or modulators each may be configured to support different protocols or different sets of protocols. A protocol specifies in part symbol encodings and may include a set of modulations rates timings or any other parameter associated with data communications. In addition a protocol can be a variant of a stated specification such as the Gen2 Specification for example including fewer or additional commands than the stated specification calls for and so on. In such instances additional commands are sometimes called custom commands.

In some embodiments one or more of the blocks or components of reader system may be implemented as integrated circuits. For example local block one or more of the components of local block and or one or more of the remote component may be implemented in CMOS technology BJT technology MESFET technology and or any other suitable implementation technology.

Local block is responsible for communicating with the tags. Local block includes a block of an antenna and a driver of the antenna for communicating with the tags. Some readers like that shown in local block contain a single antenna and driver. Some readers contain multiple antennas and drivers and a method to switch signals among them including sometimes using different antennas for transmitting and for receiving. Some readers contain multiple antennas and drivers that can operate simultaneously. A demodulator decoder block demodulates and decodes backscattered waves received from the tags via antenna driver block . Modulator encoder block encodes and modulates an RF wave that is to be transmitted to the tags via antenna driver block .

Local block additionally includes an optional local processor . Local processor may be implemented in any number of ways known in the art. Such ways include by way of examples and not of limitation digital and or analog processors such as microprocessors and digital signal processors DSPs controllers such as microcontrollers software running in a machine such as a general purpose computer programmable circuits such as Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs Field Programmable Analog Arrays FPAAs Programmable Logic Devices PLDs Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASIC any combination of one or more of these and so on. In some cases some or all of the decoding function in block the encoding function in block or both may be performed instead by local processor . In some cases local processor may implement an encryption or authentication function in some cases one or more of these functions can be distributed among other blocks such as encoding block or may be entirely incorporated in another block.

Local block additionally includes an optional local memory . Local memory may be implemented in any number of ways known in the art including by way of example and not of limitation any of the memory types described above as well as any combination thereof. Local memory can be implemented separately from local processor or in an IC with local processor with or without other components. Local memory if provided can store programs for local processor to run if needed.

In some embodiments local memory stores data read from tags or data to be written to tags such as Electronic Product Codes EPCs Tag Identifiers TIDs and other data. Local memory can also include reference data that is to be compared to EPCs instructions and or rules for how to encode commands for the tags modes for controlling antenna secret keys key pairs and so on. In some of these embodiments local memory is provided as a database.

Some components of local block typically treat the data as analog such as the antenna driver block . Other components such as local memory typically treat the data as digital. At some point there is a conversion between analog and digital. Based on where this conversion occurs a reader may be characterized as analog or digital but most readers contain a mix of analog and digital functionality.

If remote components are provided they are coupled to local block via an electronic communications network . Network can be a Local Area Network LAN a Metropolitan Area Network MAN a Wide Area Network WAN a network of networks such as the internet or a local communication link such as a USB PCI and so on. Local block may include a local network connection for communicating with communications network . Communications on the network can be secure such as if they are encrypted or physically protected or insecure if they are not encrypted or otherwise protected.

There can be one or more remote component s . If more than one they can be located at the same location or in different locations. They can access each other and local block via communications network or via other similar networks and so on. Accordingly remote component s can use respective remote network connections. Only one such remote network connection is shown which is similar to local network connection etc.

Remote component s can also include a remote processor . Remote processor can be made in any way known in the art such as was described with reference to local processor . Remote processor may also implement an authentication function similar to local processor .

Remote component s can also include a remote memory . Remote memory can be made in any way known in the art such as was described with reference to local memory . Remote memory may include a local database and a different database of a standards organization such as one that can reference EPCs. Remote memory may also contain information associated with commands tag profiles keys or the like similar to local memory .

Of the above described elements it may be useful to consider a combination of these components designated as operational processing block . Operational processing block includes those components that are provided of the following local processor remote processor local network connection remote network connection and by extension an applicable portion of communications network that links remote network connection with local network connection . The portion can be dynamically changeable etc. In addition operational processing block can receive and decode RF waves received via antenna driver and cause antenna driver to transmit RF waves according to what it has processed.

Operational processing block includes either local processor or remote processor or both. If both are provided remote processor can be made such that it operates in a way complementary with that of local processor . In fact the two can cooperate. It will be appreciated that operational processing block as defined this way is in communication with both local memory and remote memory if both are present.

Accordingly operational processing block is location independent in that its functions can be implemented either by local processor or by remote processor or by a combination of both. Some of these functions are preferably implemented by local processor and some by remote processor . Operational processing block accesses local memory or remote memory or both for storing and or retrieving data.

RFID reader system operates by operational processing block generating communications for RFID tags. These communications are ultimately transmitted by antenna driver block with modulator encoder block encoding and modulating the information on an RF wave. Then data is received from the tags via antenna driver block demodulated and decoded by demodulator decoder block and processed by operational processing block .

Embodiments of an RFID reader system can be implemented as hardware software firmware or any combination. Such a system may be subdivided into components or modules. A person skilled in the art will recognize that some of these components or modules can be implemented as hardware some as software some as firmware and some as a combination. An example of such a subdivision is now described together with the RFID tag as an additional module.

An RFID tag is considered here as a module by itself. RFID tag conducts a wireless communication with the remainder via the air interface . Air interface is really a boundary in that signals or data that pass through it are not intended to be transformed from one thing to another. Specifications as to how readers and tags are to communicate with each other for example the Gen2 Specification also properly characterize that boundary as an interface.

RFID system includes one or more reader antennas and an RF front end module for interfacing with reader antenna s . These can be made as described above.

RFID system also includes a signal processing module . In one embodiment signal processing module exchanges waveforms with RF front end module such as I and Q waveform pairs.

RFID system also includes a physical driver module which is also known as data link module. In some embodiments physical driver module exchanges bits with signal processing module . Physical driver module can be the stage associated with the framing of data.

RFID system additionally includes a media access control module . In one embodiment media access control layer module exchanges packets of bits with physical driver module . Media access control layer module can make decisions for sharing the medium of wireless communication which in this case is the air interface.

RFID system moreover includes an application programming library module . This module can include application programming interfaces APIs other objects etc.

All of these RFID system functionalities can be supported by one or more processors. One of these processors can be considered a host processor. Such a host processor might include a host operating system OS and or central processing unit CPU as in module . In some embodiments the processor is not considered as a separate module but one that includes some of the above mentioned modules of RFID system .

User interface module may be coupled to application programming library module for accessing the APIs. User interface module can be manual automatic or both. It can be supported by the host OS CPU module mentioned above or by a separate processor etc.

It will be observed that the modules of RFID system form a chain. Adjacent modules in the chain can be coupled by appropriate instrumentalities for exchanging signals. These instrumentalities include conductors buses interfaces and so on. These instrumentalities can be local e.g. to connect modules that are physically close to each other or over a network for remote communication.

The chain is used in one direction for receiving RFID waveforms and in the other direction for transmitting RFID waveforms. In receiving mode reader antenna s receives wireless waves which are in turn processed successively by the various modules in the chain. Processing can terminate in any one of the modules. In transmitting mode waveform initiation can be in any one of the modules. Ultimately signals are routed to reader antenna s to be transmitted as wireless waves.

The architecture of RFID system is presented for purposes of explanation and not of limitation. Its particular subdivision into modules need not be followed for creating embodiments. Furthermore the features of the present disclosure can be performed either within a single one of the modules or by a combination of them.

As described above in an RFID integrated circuit may include a memory which in some embodiments is implemented as nonvolatile memory cells. One way to implement a nonvolatile memory cell is by using one or more floating gate transistors. depicts a single ended memory cell with a floating gate transistor. A floating gate transistor has a floating gate that is electrically isolated such that charge stored on the gate tends to remain on the gate. In one embodiment the floating gate may be implemented using a conductive layer separated from a transistor control gate by a dielectric layer and separated from a transistor channel by another dielectric layer. In another embodiment a floating gate may be implemented by coupling a capacitor to the gate of a transistor . The gate of transistor along with the coupled capacitor terminal serves as the floating gate and the other terminal of capacitor may serve as the control gate for the floating gate device. Data stored at nonvolatile memory cell may be represented by the amount of charge or the number of charge carriers residing on the floating gate . For example an amount of charge less than a particular threshold may be considered a binary 0 whereas an amount of charge more than the particular threshold may be considered a binary 1 or vice versa. While the floating gate is electrically isolated from the other terminal of capacitor and the channel of transistor charge on the floating gate creates a potential at the channel or transistor thereby influencing the transistor s electrical properties. For example the current through transistor under particular operating conditions may vary as a function of the potential at the transistor channel created by charge stored on the floating gate . The potential at the channel in turn may vary as a function of the amount of charge stored on the floating gate . As a result the amount of charge stored on floating gate may be indirectly determined based on the current though transistor allowing the data represented by the stored charge to be read.

In general charge stored on a floating gate tends to stay on the floating gate due to its electrical isolation allowing the floating gate to maintain its written data. However specialized write operations may be used to change the amount of charge stored on the floating gate thereby modifying the stored data. During such write operations charge carriers such as electrons may be added to or removed from floating gate by applying sufficiently high potentials to cause charge tunneling between floating gate and the other terminal of capacitor and or the channel of transistor .

In some embodiments data may be represented as the difference between the charge stored on different floating gates instead of the charge stored on a single floating gate. depicts a differential bitcell with two floating gate transistors. A bitcell may be a structure configured to store a single bit of data. For example memory cell may be considered a bitcell. While the bitcells described herein are implemented with one or more transistors in other embodiments bitcells may be implemented using any other suitable technology or component.

Differential bitcell includes two floating gate transistors and each having a capacitor and respectively coupled to a transistor and respectively to form a floating gate and respectively . In this situation data stored on differential bitcell may not be represented by the absolute values of the charge stored at the floating gate transistors but rather by the relationship between the currents through the channels of floating gate transistors . In this situation the bitcell may store a binary 0 if floating gate transistors and each store charge such that under a particular operating condition e.g. particular biasing of transistors the channel current through floating gate transistor is smaller in magnitude than the channel current through floating gate transistor . Similarly the bitcell may store a binary 1 if floating gate transistors and each store charge such that under a particular operating condition the channel current through floating gate transistor is larger in magnitude than the channel current through floating gate transistor . The data stored at bitcell may therefore be read by comparing the output currents of transistors and . In some embodiments data may be represented directly as the difference between the output currents of transistors and . This differs from the situation described above because the charge stored by floating gate transistor may not have to be larger than the charge stored by floating gate transistor in order to result in the output current of transistor being larger than the output current of transistor . This may result due to transistor dimensional and fabrication differences.

A typical NVM includes multiple bitcells such as bitcell arranged in an array and coupled to row multiplexing logic and column multiplexing logic . A readout sense amplifier or comparator receives and compares output currents and from floating gate transistors and respectively and provides an output signal on digital output indicating whether bitcell stores a 0 or 1 based on the current comparison.

Floating gate devices are generally designed to electrically isolate the floating gate so that charge stored on the floating gate representing stored data stays on the floating gate. However in certain circumstances charge on the floating gate may leak away from the floating gate potentially degrading the stored data. Such leakage may be due to incomplete problematic failed truncated or partial write operations or decay over time. For example if stored charge above a certain threshold represents a binary 1 and below the threshold represents a binary 0 a problematic or failed write operation intended to write a 1 value on a floating gate may not supply enough charge to meet the threshold. Similarly a floating gate that originally stored sufficient charge to represent a 1 may over time leak enough charge to reduce the stored charge below the threshold causing the 1 to decay to a 0 .

In some embodiments it may be useful to determine how close data stored using floating gate devices is to decaying below the threshold delineating a 0 data value from a 1 data value. For example an entity may wish to calibrate and or characterize the data storage properties of a floating gate memory device e.g. how well the memory device maintains stored data after manufacture physical processing and or programming. As another example a recipient of a floating gate memory device may wish to determine whether any data originally written to the memory device remains correctly written on the device and may also wish to detect any failing memory cells and reprogram those cells as needed to avoid excessive memory wear.

For example a floating gate device may originally store sufficient charge to represent a 1 . Subsequently charge may leak from the floating gate device reducing the stored charge to just above the threshold separating 0 and 1 values. While the floating gate device still stores the correct data 1 the data is close to degrading because the stored charge is close to the threshold. The likelihood of data decay in such a situation may be characterized by a margin . The margin is a measure of how close data stored at a floating gate device is to decaying or alternately how strongly data is written to or encoded on the floating gate device and may be represented by a probability a charge difference a voltage difference a current difference and or any other suitable parameter. For a floating gate device such as single ended memory cell where the stored data value is represented by the amount of charge stored as compared to a threshold the margin may be the difference between the stored charge and the threshold. For example suppose that a floating gate device stores a 1 when the charge stored on the floating gate is above a charge threshold and the device stores a 0 when the charge stored on the floating gate is below the charge threshold. When the device stores a 1 the margin associated with the device may be the amount of charge stored on the floating gate in excess of the charge threshold. When the device stores a 0 the margin associated with the device may be the amount of additional charge required to bring the charge stored on the floating gate up to the charge threshold.

For a differential floating gate device such as differential bitcell the margin may be represented by the difference in the output current of transistor and the output current under similar operating conditions which in turn is related to differences in stored charge at floating gates and .

While in the description above a binary 1 may be represented by stored charge at a floating gate device above a particular threshold and a binary 0 may be represented by stored charge below the particular threshold in other embodiments the reverse may be true. Similarly in some situations the techniques described herein may be applicable to floating gate devices capable of storing multiple bits of information e.g. triple level or multi level cells .

By varying the DAC input signals and monitoring the output the potential difference required to switch the data value stored at bitcell as seen at output can be determined. This potential difference in turn may be used to determine the margin associated with the data stored at bitcell . For example stored data with a relatively larger margin may require a relatively larger potential difference to be applied using voltage DACs to cause output to switch whereas stored data with a relatively smaller margin may require a relatively smaller applied potential difference to cause output to switch. Accordingly the margin of data stored at bitcell may be determined using the voltage DACs .

As mentioned previously embodiments are directed to determining the margin associated with stored data. Embodiments additionally include programs and methods of operation of the programs. A program is generally defined as a group of steps or operations leading to a desired result due to the nature of the elements in the steps and their sequence. A program is usually advantageously implemented as a sequence of steps or operations for a processor but may be implemented in other processing elements such as FPGAs DSPs or other devices as described above.

Performing the steps instructions or operations of a program requires manipulating physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities may be transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated or processed according to the steps or instructions and they may also be stored in a computer readable medium. These quantities include for example electrical magnetic and electromagnetic charges or particles states of matter and in the more general case can include the states of any physical devices or elements. It is convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to information represented by the states of these quantities as bits data bits samples values symbols characters terms numbers or the like. It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are associated with the appropriate physical quantities and that these terms are merely convenient labels applied to these physical quantities individually or in groups.

Embodiments furthermore include storage media. Such media individually or in combination with others have stored thereon instructions data keys signatures and other data of a program made according to the embodiments. A storage medium according to the embodiments is a computer readable medium such as a memory and is read by a processor of the type mentioned above. If a memory it can be implemented in a number of ways such as Read Only Memory ROM Random Access Memory RAM etc. some of which are volatile and some nonvolatile.

Even though it is said that the program may be stored in a computer readable medium it should be clear to a person skilled in the art that it need not be a single memory or even a single machine. Various portions modules or features of it may reside in separate memories or even separate machines. The separate machines may be connected directly or through a network such as a local access network LAN or a global network such as the Internet.

Often for the sake of convenience only it is desirable to implement and describe a program as software. The software can be unitary or thought of in terms of various interconnected distinct software modules.

At operation the memory controller may evaluate whether sufficient power is available to perform the margin read. For example the memory controller may compare the received power level or power stored at the tag IC to a margin read power level requirement.

If at operation the memory controller determines that sufficient power is not available to perform the margin read and a margin read or memory read command was received at operation at optional operation the tag IC may respond indicating that it has insufficient power to perform the margin read and may end the margin read process. If the memory controller did not initiate the margin read process in response to a command then the tag IC may not respond upon determining that insufficient power is available. However in some embodiments the tag IC or the memory controller may store an indication of the attempted margin read and or the power insufficiency for example by adjusting a flag or storing data in one or more registers or NVM portions.

On the other hand if at operation the memory controller determines that sufficient power is available to perform the margin read at optional operation the memory controller may first attempt to read out the current data values stored in the bitcell s on which the margin read is to be performed. Subsequently at optional operation the memory controller may determine whether the data values read out at optional operation are correct. For example the memory controller may compare the data values read out at optional operation to correct data values and or check codes e.g. parity bits checksums cyclic redundancy checks hash function outputs error correcting codes etc. for the correct data values. In some embodiments the memory controller may retrieve the correct data values and or check codes from a previously received command e.g. received at operation and or a different storage location on the tag IC.

If at optional operation the memory controller determines that the stored data values are not correct then at optional operation the tag IC may respond indicating that it has a memory error. If the memory controller did not initiate the margin read process in response to a command then the tag IC may not respond upon determining that the stored data values are incorrect. However the tag IC or the memory controller may store an indication of the attempted margin read and or the incorrect data values for example by adjusting a flag or storing data in one or more registers or NVM portions. In some embodiments the tag IC or the memory controller may attempt to reconstruct the incorrect data for example using error correction codes or copying known correct data to the bitcells storing the incorrect data.

On the other hand if at optional operation the memory controller determines that the stored data values are correct or if optional operation is not performed at operation the memory controller may determine and compare the margins of the data stored in the bitcells to a margin threshold. The memory controller may determine the data margins by biasing the bitcells the entire NVM and or a readout sense amplifier e.g. sense amplifier . In some embodiments the memory controller may use one or more voltage DACs e.g. voltage DACs to bias capacitor configured transistors associated with individual bitcells or the entire NVM. The memory controller may also or instead use one or more current DACs e.g. current DACs to bias readout sense amplifiers e.g. sense amplifier .

In some embodiments the memory controller determines the bias to be applied based on the data stored in the bitcells. For example suppose that a differential bitcell e.g. bitcell stores a 0 data value such that a first output current e.g. output current is larger than a second output current e.g. output current . In this situation the memory controller may bias the transistors in the bitcell and or the readout sense amplifier to oppose the output of the differential bitcell such that the second output current increases with respect to the first output current. If the differential bitcell stores a 1 data value such that the first output current is smaller than the second output current then the memory controller may again bias the transistors in the bitcell and or the readout sense amplifier to oppose the bitcell output such that the first output current increases with respect to the second output current. The magnitude of the bias that is sufficient to cause the first and second output currents to become substantially equal may be representative of the margin of the stored data value and the memory controller may determine the margin of the stored data value from the bias magnitude. In some embodiments the memory controller may determine the bias that causes the first and second output currents to become substantially equal by increasing the bias magnitude until the bitcell output e.g. output switches from the stored data value to the opposite value.

Subsequently the memory controller or the tag IC may compare the data value margin to a margin threshold to determine whether the data value margin is sufficient. The margin threshold may be a margin value that when satisfied by the margin of a bitcell stored data value indicates that the data value is adequately or sufficiently written to the bitcell. In other words if the memory controller determines that the margin of a data value stored on a bitcell is at least equal to the margin threshold the memory controller may consider the data value strongly written to the bitcell. The margin threshold may be predetermined by a tag IC manufacturer a tag manufacturer and or a user or may be dynamically determined by the tag IC. The margin threshold may be stored or otherwise encoded onto a tag IC or may be provided to the tag IC via a command for subsequent use. In single ended memory cells such as memory cell the margin threshold may be an absolute voltage or current value. In differential bitcells such as bitcell the margin threshold may instead be a differential threshold which may represent a difference or delta in voltage or current. A differential threshold may also have a sign to indicate the direction of the difference.

In some embodiments instead of determining the specific bias magnitude necessary to cause the first and second output currents to become substantially equal and then comparing to the margin threshold the memory controller may directly bias the bitcells NVM and or the readout sense amplifier to the margin threshold opposing the bitcell output. In other words the memory controller may use the margin threshold as the bias to be applied. The memory controller may then determine whether the bitcell output is still the stored data value despite the biasing or whether the bitcell output has switched from the stored data value to the opposite value. If the bitcell output is still the stored data value despite the biasing then the data value margin is at least equal to the margin threshold and the memory controller may consider the data value margin sufficient. On the other hand if the bitcell output has switched due to the biasing then the data value margin is less than the margin threshold and the memory controller may consider the data value margin insufficient.

In embodiments where the bitcells include single ended memory cells similar to memory cell the memory controller may use a similar approach to determine margin. However instead of determining the margin based on the bias magnitude required to cause two output currents to be substantially equal the memory controller determines the margin based on the bias magnitude required to cause the single ended memory cell to switch its output data value represented for example as an output voltage or an output current.

At operation the memory controller determines whether the margins of the data stored in the bitcells are sufficient based on the margin determination and comparison performed at operation . As described above the memory controller may consider data margins sufficient if they at least equal a margin threshold. If the memory controller determines that the data margins are sufficient then at operation the tag IC may enter a first state in which the data stored on the tested bitcells i.e. the bitcells that have undergone the margin read are confirmed to have adequate margin. In some embodiments the memory controller or tag IC may adjust an IC flag or memory indicator to a first value to indicate that the tag IC is in the first state. In the first state the tag IC may be configured to respond to commands requesting the data values stored on the tested bitcells with the data values. The tag IC may also be configured to store and or transmit an indication of the magnitude of the margin e.g. a voltage current charge or parameter indicating how large the margin is .

On the other hand if at operation the memory controller determines that the data margin associated with at least one of the tested bitcells is insufficient then at operation the tag IC may enter a second state in which the data stored on the tested bitcells do not have adequate margin. In some embodiments the memory controller or tag IC may adjust the IC flag or memory indicator referred to above to a second value different from the first value to indicate that the tag IC is in the second state.

In the second state the tag IC may be configured to respond to commands requesting the data values stored on the tested bitcells by not transmitting the data values and instead indicating an error. For example the tag IC may respond with an error code or message or may respond with the state of the IC flag or memory indicator. In some embodiments the tag IC may transmit the data values and also indicate an error. Similar to operation the tag IC may also be configured to store and or transmit an indication of the magnitude of the margin e.g. a voltage current charge or parameter indicating how large the margin is .

In some embodiments the tag IC may include alternative data along with the error indication in its response. The alternative data may be a different version of the data stored on the tested bitcells a truncated version of the data stored on the tested bitcells or entirely different data. For example the alternative data may include a tag or IC identifier e.g. EPC or TID a truncated or modified version of the tag or IC identifier a truncated or modified version of the stored data or some other data such as a series of zeroes or ones or some other binary pattern that indicate an error has occurred. The tag IC may include both the alternative and the stored data or portions of one or both data or other information that may be useful to a reader or to a reading system in the response. For example if the tag IC receives a command from a reader requesting stored data that the tag IC has determined has insufficient margin then the IC may include an error code the stored data and or alternative data in its response.

In some cases the response may indicate the presence and or nature of the included data. For example the response may indicate that it includes data and may also indicate whether the included data is the stored data alternative data or other data. In some embodiments the response may include protocol control information e.g. protocol control bits according to the Gen2 Specification corresponding to data either included in the reply or stored in memory. Protocol control information associated with data may be used to indicate the length of the associated data. In some embodiments stored data that is determined to have insufficient margin may in effect be altered by adjusting its associated protocol control information. For example data may be shortened or even set to zero length in effect erasing it by adjusting its associated protocol control information. The adjusted protocol control information may then be included in the response to indicate that the stored data has some error or insufficient margin. In some embodiments the response may also include an error check code computed by the tag IC over the reply. For example the tag IC may compute the error check code based on one or more components of the response e.g. the error indicator the stored data the alternative data and or any other data included in the reply and include the computed error check code in the response.

The operations described in process are for illustrative purposes only. These operations may be implemented using additional or fewer operations and in different orders using the principles described herein.

Response which may be transmitted by a tag or tag IC in response to a margin read command may include a 1 bit header field a 16 bit RN field that stores the handle and a 16 bit CRC field that stores an error checking code for the response . In some embodiments a tag or tag IC may transmit response only if a passing margin read that is all relevant bits have sufficient margin was performed. The tag or tag IC may indicate a failing margin read where at least one relevant bit has insufficient margin by transmitting an error indication as described above in operation .

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the devices and or processes via the use of block diagrams and or examples. Insofar as such block diagrams and or examples contain one or more functions and or aspects it will be understood by those within the art that each function and or aspect within such block diagrams or examples may be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof. Those skilled in the art will recognize that some aspects of the RFID embodiments disclosed herein in whole or in part may be equivalently implemented employing integrated circuits as one or more computer programs running on one or more computers e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more computer systems as one or more programs running on one or more processors e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more microprocessors as firmware or as virtually any combination thereof and that designing the circuitry and or writing the code for the software and or firmware would be well within the skill of one of skill in the art in light of this disclosure.

The present disclosure is not to be limited in terms of the particular embodiments described in this application which are intended as illustrations of various aspects. Many modifications and variations can be made without departing from its spirit and scope as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Functionally equivalent methods and apparatuses within the scope of the disclosure in addition to those enumerated herein will be apparent to those skilled in the art from the foregoing descriptions. Such modifications and variations are intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims. The present disclosure is to be limited only by the terms of the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. It is to be understood that this disclosure is not limited to particular methods configurations antennas transmission lines and the like which can of course vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

With respect to the use of substantially any plural and or singular terms herein those having skill in the art can translate from the plural to the singular and or from the singular to the plural as is appropriate to the context and or application. The various singular plural permutations may be expressly set forth herein for sake of clarity.

It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to embodiments containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers means at least two recitations or two or more recitations .

Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that virtually any disjunctive word and or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms whether in the description claims or drawings should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms either of the terms or both terms. For example the phrase A or B will be understood to include the possibilities of A or B or A and B. 

As will be understood by one skilled in the art for any and all purposes such as in terms of providing a written description all ranges disclosed herein also encompass any and all possible subranges and combinations of subranges thereof. Any listed range can be easily recognized as sufficiently describing and enabling the same range being broken down into at least equal halves thirds quarters fifths tenths etc. As a non limiting example each range discussed herein can be readily broken down into a lower third middle third and upper third etc. As will also be understood by one skilled in the art all language such as up to at least greater than less than and the like include the number recited and refer to ranges which can be subsequently broken down into subranges as discussed above. Finally as will be understood by one skilled in the art a range includes each individual member. Thus for example a group having 1 3 cells refers to groups having 1 2 or 3 cells. Similarly a group having 1 5 cells refers to groups having 1 2 3 4 or 5 cells and so forth.

