---

title: Method for control of camera module based on physiological signal
abstract: A control method of an electronic device is disclosed. The method includes receiving an input signal including a physiological signal of a subject to be examined through a sensor module of the electronic device, detecting an input operation based on at least the input signal, and acquiring an image through a camera module according to the input operation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09444998&OS=09444998&RS=09444998
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd
number: 09444998
owner_city: 
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20150902
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 a to Korean Patent Application No. 10 2014 0116510 filed in the Korean Intellectual Property Office on Sep. 2 2014 the entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates generally to method for a control of a camera module and more particularly to a method for a control of a camera module based on a physiological signal.

Various electronic devices include a camera module and conventionally acquire an image by either pressing a photography button mounted to a body of the electronic device or by touching a photography button displayed on a display.

However an operation of manipulating a mechanical button or a button image on a display may influence the quality of the acquired image.

The present invention has been made to address at least the problems and disadvantages described above and to provide at least the advantages described below.

Accordingly an aspect of the present invention is to provide a method of image acquisition through a camera module of an electronic device without manipulating a mechanical button or a virtual button displayed on a display of the electronic device.

Accordingly another aspect of the present invention is to provide a method of controlling a camera module of an electronic device by using physiological information.

Accordingly another aspect of the present invention is to allow a user to control a camera module of an electronic device by using a sensor module. For example a user of an electronic device can change a setting of the camera module or instruct to acquire an image based on a motion of a finger on the sensor module.

Accordingly another aspect of the present invention is to acquire an image through a camera module of the electronic device which can be processed based on physiological information or emotional information received by the sensor module.

In accordance with an aspect of the present invention a method of controlling an electronic device is provided. The method includes receiving an input signal including a physiological signal of a subject to be examined through a sensor module of the electronic device detecting an input operation based on at least the input signal and acquiring an image through a camera module according to the input operation. In accordance with another aspect of the present invention an electronic device is provided. The electronic device includes a camera module a sensor module that receives an input signal including a physiological signal of a subject to be examined and a control module that detects an input operation at least based on the input signal and acquiring an image through the camera module according to the input operation.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention a method is provided. The method includes receiving a physiological signal of a user through a biometric sensor of an electronic device and acquiring an image through a camera module of the electronic device at least based on a change in the physiological signal. In accordance with another aspect of the present invention a mobile terminal is provided. The mobile terminal includes a camera module arranged on at least one of a front surface and a rear surface of a body of the mobile terminal a sensor module for receiving a physiological signal of a user the sensor module being formed on at least one of the front surface and the rear surface of the body and a control module for acquiring an image through the camera module at least based on a change in the physiological signal the control module being functionally connected to the camera module and the sensor module. In accordance with another aspect of the present invention a non transitory computer readable recording medium having a program recorded thereon to perform a method is provided. The method includes receiving a physiological signal of a user through a biometric sensor of an electronic device and acquiring an image through a camera module of the electronic device at least based on a change in the physiological signal.

The following description with reference to the accompanying drawings is provided to assist in a comprehensive understanding of various embodiments of the present invention as defined by the claims and their equivalents. It includes various specific details to assist in that understanding but these are to be regarded as merely as examples. Accordingly those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that various changes and modifications of the various embodiments described herein can be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the present invention. In addition descriptions of well known functions and constructions may be omitted for clarity and conciseness.

The terms and words used in the following description and claims are not limited to their dictionary meanings but are merely used to enable a clear and consistent understanding of the present invention. Accordingly it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the following description of various embodiments of the present invention is provided for illustration purposes only and not for the purpose of limiting the present invention as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

It is to be understood that the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a component surface includes reference to one or more of such surfaces.

An electronic device according to an embodiment of the present invention may be an apparatus having a communication function. For example the electronic device according to the present invention may be at least one of and or combinations of a smart phone a tablet Personal Computer PC a mobile phone a video phone an electronic boot e book reader a desktop PC a laptop PC a netbook computer a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a Portable Multimedia Player PMP an MP3 player a mobile medical appliance an electronic bracelet an electronic necklace an electronic accessory a camera a wearable device an electronic clock a wrist watch home appliances e.g. a refrigerator an air conditioner a cleaner an oven a microwave oven a washing machine an air cleaner etc. an artificial intelligence robot a television TV a Digital Versatile Disk DVD player an audio player various medical appliances e.g. a Magnetic Resonance Angiography MRA device a Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI device a Computerized Tomography CT device an ultrasonography device etc. a navigation device a Global Positioning System GPS receiver an Event Data Recorder EDR a Flight Data Recorder FDR a set top box a TV box e.g. HomeSync of SAMSUNG Electronics Co. Apple TV of APPLE Co. and Google TV of Google Co. an electronic dictionary an infotainment device for a vehicle an electronic equipment for a ship e.g. a navigation device a gyrocompass etc. an avionic device a security device an electronic cloth an electronic key a camcorder a game console a Head Mounted Display HMD unit a flat panel display device an electronic frame an electronic album a piece of furniture having a communication function and or a part of a building structure an electronic board an electronic signature receiving device and a protector.

It should be obvious to those skilled in the art that the electronic device according to the present invention is not limited to the aforementioned devices.

Referring to the electronic device includes a bus a processor a memory a input output interface a display and a communication interface .

The bus is a circuit for interconnecting the elements described above e.g. the processor the memory the input output interface the display and the communication interface and for allowing a communication e.g. by transferring a control message between the elements described above.

The processor receives commands from the above mentioned other elements e.g. the memory the input output interface the display and the communication interface through for example the bus deciphers the received commands and performs operations and or data processing according to the deciphered commands.

The memory stores commands received from the processor and or other elements e.g. the input output interface the display and the communication interface and or commands and or data generated by the processor and or other elements. The memory include software and or programs such as a kernel middleware an Application Programming Interface API and an application . Each of the programming modules described above may be configured by software firmware hardware and or combinations of two or more thereof.

The kernel controls and or manages system resources e.g. the bus the processor or the memory used for execution of operations and or functions implemented in other programming modules such as the middleware the API and or the application . Further the kernel provides an interface through which the middleware the API and or the application can access and then control and or manage an individual element of the electronic device .

The middleware performs a relay function which allows the API and or the application to communicate with and exchange data with the kernel . Further in relation to operation requests received from at least one of an application the middleware performs load balancing in relation to the operation requests by for example giving a priority in using a system resource e.g. the bus the processor and or the memory of the electronic device to at least one application from among the at least one of the application .

The API is an interface through which the application controls a function provided by the kernel and or the middleware and includes for example at least one interface or function for file control window control image processing and or character control.

The input output interface receives a command and or data from a user and transfers the received command and or data to the processor and or the memory through the bus . The display displays an image a video and or data to a user.

The communication interface establishes a communication between the electronic device and a first external device a second external device and or a server . The communication interface supports short range communication protocols e.g. a WiFi protocol a BlueTooth BT protocol and a Near Field Communication NFC protocol communication networks e.g. Internet Internet of Things IoT Local Area Network LAN Wire Area Network WAN a telecommunication network a cellular network and a satellite network a Plain Old Telephone Service POTS or any other similar and or suitable communication networks such as network . Each of the first and second external devices and may be a same type and or different types of electronic devices.

Referring to a block diagram of an electronic device is provided. The electronic device may configure a whole or a part of the electronic device illustrated in . The electronic device includes one or more Application Processors APs a communication module a Subscriber Identification Module SIM card a memory a sensor module an input device a display module an interface an audio module a camera module a power management module a battery an indicator and a motor .

The AP operates an Operating System OS or an application program so as to control a plurality of hardware or software component elements connected to the AP and execute various data processing and calculations including multimedia data. The AP may be implemented by for example a System on Chip SoC . The processor may further include a Graphic Processing Unit GPU .

The communication module transmits receives data in communication between different electronic devices e.g. the second external device and the server connected to the electronic device through the network . According to an embodiment the communication module includes a cellular module a WiFi module a BlueTooth BT module a Global Positioning System GPS module a Near Field Communication NFC module and a Radio Frequency RF module .

The cellular module provides a voice a call a video call a Short Message Service SMS or an Internet service through a communication network for example Long Term Evolution LTE LTE Advanced LTE A Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Wideband CDMA WCDMA Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS Wireless Broadband WiBro Global System for Mobile communication GSM etc. . Further the cellular module authenticates electronic devices within a communication network by using a the SIM card . According to an embodiment the cellular module performs at least some of the functions which can be provided by the AP . For example the cellular module may perform at least some of the multimedia control functions.

The cellular module may include a Communication Processor CP . Further the cellular module may be implemented by for example an SoC.

Although the components such as the cellular module for example communication processor the memory and the power management module are illustrated as components separate from the AP in the AP may include at least some for example cellular module of the aforementioned components in an embodiment.

The AP or the cellular module for example communication processor loads a command or data received from at least one of a non volatile memory and other components connected to each of the AP and the cellular module to a volatile memory and processes the loaded command or data. Further the AP or the cellular module stores data received from at least one of other components or generated by at least one of other components in a non volatile memory.

Each of the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may include for example a processor for processing data transmitted received through the corresponding module. Although the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module are illustrated as blocks separate from each other in at least some of the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may be included in one Integrated Chip IC or one IC package according to one embodiment. For example at least some for example the communication processor corresponding to the cellular module and the WiFi processor corresponding to the WiFi module of the processors corresponding to the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may be implemented by one SoC.

The RF module transmits receives data for example an RF signal. The RF module may include for example a transceiver a Power Amp Module PAM a frequency filter a Low Noise Amplifier LNA etc. Further the RF module may include a component for transmitting receiving electronic waves over a free air space in wireless communication for example a conductor a conducting wire etc. Although the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module share one RF module in at least one of the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may transmit receive an RF signal through a separate RF module.

The SIM card is a card that may be inserted into a slot formed in a particular portion of the electronic device . The SIM card includes unique identification information for example Integrated Circuit Card IDentifier ICCID or subscriber information for example International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI .

The internal memory may include at least one of a volatile memory for example a Random Access Memory RAM a Dynamic RAM DRAM a Static RAM SRAM a Synchronous Dynamic RAM SDRAM etc. and a non volatile memory for example a Read Only Memory ROM a One Time Programmable ROM OTPROM a Programmable ROM PROM an Erasable and Programmable ROM EPROM an Electrically Erasable and Programmable ROM EEPROM a mask ROM a flash ROM a NAND flash memory an NOR flash memory etc. .

The external memory may include a flash drive for example a Compact Flash CF a Secure Digital SD a Micro Secure Digital Micro SD a Mini Secure Digital Mini SD an extreme Digital xD or a memory stick. The external memory may be functionally connected to the electronic device through various interfaces. The electronic device may further include a storage device or storage medium such as a hard drive.

The sensor module measures a physical quantity or detects an operation state of the electronic device and converts the measured or detected information to an electronic signal. The sensor module may include at least one of a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B an atmospheric pressure barometric sensor C a magnetic sensor D an acceleration sensor E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G a color sensor H for example Red Green and Blue RGB sensor H a biometric sensor I a temperature humidity sensor J an illuminance light sensor K and a Ultra Violet UV sensor M. Additionally or alternatively the sensor module may include for example a E nose sensor an electromyography EMG sensor an electroencephalogram EEG sensor an electrocardiogram ECG sensor an InfraRed IR sensor an iris sensor a fingerprint sensor etc. The sensor module may further include a control circuit for controlling one or more sensors included in the sensor module .

The input device includes a touch panel a digital pen sensor a key and an ultrasonic input device . For example the touch panel recognize a touch input in at least one type of a capacitive type a resistive type an infrared type and an acoustic wave type. The touch panel further include a control circuit. In the capacitive type the touch panel can recognize proximity as well as a direct touch. The touch panel further include a tactile layer. In this event the touch panel provides a tactile reaction to the user.

The digital pen sensor may be implemented for example using a method identical or similar to a method of receiving a touch input of the user or using a separate recognition sheet.

The ultrasonic input device is a device which detects an acoustic wave by microphone of the electronic device through an input means generating an ultrasonic signal to identify data and performs wireless recognition.

The electronic device may receive a user input from the first or second external device and or the server connected to the electronic device by using the communication module .

The panel may be for example a Liquid Crystal Display LCD or an Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diode AM OLED . The panel may be implemented to be for example flexible transparent or wearable. The panel may be configured by the touch panel and one module.

The projector projects light on a screen to display an image. The screen may be located inside or outside the electronic device .

The display module may further include a control circuit for controlling the panel the hologram device and the projector .

The interface includes a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI a Universal Serial Bus USB an optical interface and a D subminiature D sub . The interface may be included in the communication interface illustrated in . Additionally or alternatively the interface may include for example a Mobile High definition Link MHL interface a Secure Digital SD card Multi Media Card MMC or an Infrared Data Association IrDA standard interface.

The audio module bi directionally converts a sound and an electronic signal. At least some components of the audio module may be included in the input output interface illustrated in . The audio module processes sound information input or output through a speaker a receiver an earphone and the microphone .

The camera module is a device which can photograph a still image and a video. The camera module may include one or more image sensors for example a front sensor or a back sensor an Image Signal Processor ISP or a flash for example an LED or xenon lamp .

The power management module manages power of the electronic device . The power management module may include for example a Power Management Integrated Circuit PMIC a charger Integrated Circuit IC or a battery gauge.

The PMIC may be mounted to an integrated circuit or an SoC semiconductor. A charging method is divided into wired and wireless methods. The charger IC charges a battery and prevents over voltage or over current from flowing from a charger. The charger IC includes a charger IC for at least one of the wired charging method and the wireless charging method.

The wireless charging method may include a magnetic resonance method a magnetic induction method and an electromagnetic wave method and additional circuits for wireless charging for example circuits such as a coil loop a resonant circuit a rectifier etc. may be added.

The battery gauge measures for example a remaining quantity of the battery or a voltage a current or a temperature during charging.

The battery stores or generates electricity and supplies power to the electronic device by using the stored or generated electricity. The battery may include a rechargeable battery or a solar battery.

The indicator shows particular statuses of the electronic device or a part for example AP of the electronic device for example a booting status a message status a charging status etc.

The electronic device may include a processing unit for example GPU for supporting a module TV. The processing unit for supporting the mobile TV may process media data according to a standard of Digital Multimedia Broadcasting DMB Digital Video Broadcasting DVB media flow etc.

Each of the components of the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present invention may be implemented by one or more components and the name of the corresponding component may vary depending on a type of the electronic device. The electronic device according to various embodiments of the present invention may include at least one of the above described components a few of the components may be omitted or additional components may be further included. Also some of the components of the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present invention may be combined to form a single entity and thus may equivalently execute functions of the corresponding components before being combined.

Referring to a block diagram of a programming module is provided. The programming module may be included stored in the electronic device for example memory illustrated in . At least some of the programming module may be formed of software firmware hardware or a combination of software firmware and hardware. The programming module may be executed in the hardware for example electronic device to include an Operating System OS controlling resources related to the electronic device or various applications driving on the OS. For example the OS is Android iOS Windows Symbian Tizen Bada etc. The programming module includes a kernel a middleware an Application Programming Interface API and the applications .

The system resource manager may include for example a process manager a memory manager and a file system manager. The system resource manager performs a system resource control allocation and recall.

The device driver may include for example a display driver a camera driver a Bluetooth driver a shared memory driver a USB driver a keypad driver a WiFi driver and an audio driver. Further according to an embodiment the device driver include an Inter Process Communication IPC driver.

The middleware includes a plurality of modules prepared in advance to provide a function required in common by the applications . Further the middleware provides a function through the API to allow the applications to efficiently use limited system resources within the electronic device . The middleware includes at least one of a runtime library an application manager a window manager a multimedia manager a resource manager a power manager a database manager a package manager a connection manager a notification manager a location manager a graphic manager and a security manager .

The runtime library includes a library module used by a complier to add a new function through a programming language while the application is executed. The runtime library executes input and output management of a memory a function associated with an arithmetic function etc.

The multimedia manager detects a format required for reproducing various media files and performs an encoding or a decoding of a media file by using a codec suitable for the corresponding format.

The resource manager manages resources such as a source code a memory or a storage space of at least one of the applications .

The power manager operates together with a Basic Input Output System BIOS to manage a battery or power and provides power information required for the operation.

The database manager manages generation search and change of a database to be used by at least one of the applications .

The package manager manages an installation or an update of an application distributed in a form of a package file.

The notification manager displays or notifies a user of an event such as an arrival message an appointment a proximity alarm etc. in a manner that does not disturb the user.

The graphic manager manages a graphic effect provided to the user or a user interface related to the graphic effect.

The security manager provides a general security function required for a system security or a user authentication.

When the electronic device has a call function the middleware may further include a telephony manager for managing a voice or a video call function of the electronic device .

The middleware may generate a new middleware module through a combination of various functions of the aforementioned internal component modules and use the generated new middleware module. The middleware may provide a module specific to each type of operating system to provide a differentiated function. Further the middleware may dynamically delete some of the conventional components or add new components. Accordingly some of the components described in the embodiment of the present invention may be omitted replaced with other components having different names but performing similar functions or other components may be further included.

The API is a set of API programming functions and may be provided with a different configuration according to an operating system. For example in Android or iOS a single API set may be provided for each platform. In Tizen two or more API sets may be provided.

The applications may include a preloaded application and or a third party application. The applications may include a home application a dialer application a Short Messaging Service SMS Multimedia Messaging Service MMS application an Instant Messaging IM application a browser application a camera application an alarm application a contact application a voice dial application an email application a calendar application a media player application an album application and a clock application . However the present embodiment is not limited thereto and the applications may include any other similar and or suitable application.

At least some of the programming module is implemented by a command stored in a computer readable storage medium. When the command is executed by one or more processors for example processor the one or more processors perform a function corresponding to the command. The computer readable storage medium may be for example the memory . At least some of the programming module may be implemented for example executed by for example the processor . At least some of the programming module may include for example a module a program a routine sets of instructions or a process for performing one or more functions.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the names of the components of the programming module may vary depending on a type of operating system. Further the programming module may include one or more of the aforementioned components omit some of the components or further include other additional components.

Referring to an electronic device is provided. The electronic device includes a camera module a sensor module and a control module . The electronic device may additionally include a display . The electronic device may be the electronic device described with reference to or the electronic device described with reference to .

The camera module may include one or more image sensors for photographing a still image or a moving image. The camera module changes the settings of the one or more image sensors according to a control command or a signal. For example the camera module controls the focus white balance a shutter speed or brightness according to the control command. Further the camera module controls the one or more image sensors to acquire images according to the control command or the signal.

The sensor module measures or detects a physical quantity related to the electronic device or a physiological signal of a subject to be examined and converts the detected physical quantity or physiological signal into an electrical signal. The sensor module includes a biometric sensor for measuring the physiological signal of the subject to be examined.

The biometric sensor may be a Photoplethysmography PPG sensor for the subject to be examined. The biometric sensor measures a physiological signal including at least one of iris information retina information vein information fingerprint information and Saturation of peripheral Oxygen SpO2 .

The biometric sensor may alternatively be a Heart Rate Monitor HRM a Heart Rate Variability HRV sensor an electromyogram sensor or an electroencephalogram sensor.

Alternatively the sensor module may include at least one of an illumination sensor a gesture sensor an acceleration sensor a location sensor a gyroscope sensor and a magnetic sensor as well as the biometric sensor.

The sensor module is configured to receive an input signal and the input signal includes a physiological signal of the subject to be examined and information on a physical quantity related to the electronic device . The subject to be examined may be a user of the electronic device .

The control module is functionally connected to the camera module and the sensor module and controls the camera module to acquire an image at least based on the input signal received through the sensor module . The physiological signal is included in the input signal for controlling the camera module . A control command or a signal for the camera module is an input operation detected based on the input signal received through the sensor module . The input operation includes an operation by the subject to be examined with respect to at least a part of the surface of the sensor module for example an approach operation a contact operation or a separation operation.

The display displays a dynamic image acquired through the camera module for example a preview image. The display displays a still image acquired through the camera module for example a photographed image. Further the display may display various User Interfaces UIs for controlling the camera module by the control module .

The electronic device may further include the audio module . In this case the control module is functionally connected to the audio module and the sensor module and controls the audio module to acquire audio data at least based on the input signal received through the sensor module . The physiological signal is included in the input signal for controlling the audio module. A control command or a signal for the audio module is an input operation detected based on the input signal received through the sensor module . The input operation includes an operation by the subject to be examined with respect to at least a part of the surface of the sensor module for example an approach operation a contact operation or a separation operation.

The electronic device may additionally include the communication module . In this case the control module is connected to the communication module and the sensor module and also functionally connected to at least one of the display and the audio module and controls at least one of the display and the audio module to acquire an image or audio data at least based on the input signal received through the sensor module . The physiological signal is included in the input signal for controlling the display or the audio module. A control command or a signal for the display or the audio module is an input operation detected based on the input signal received through the sensor module . The input operation includes an operation by the subject to be examined with respect to at least a part of the surface of the sensor module for example an approach operation a contact operation or a separation operation. For example the control module acquires an image for example a call application screen or a conference application screen or a video for example a video including one or more of a recipient image and a sender image displayed on the display at least based on the input signal received through the sensor module during a voice call a video call an audio conference or a video conference. Alternatively the control module acquires one or more of the audio signals output or input through the audio module .

Referring to a front perspective view of an electronic device is provided. Electronic device includes a bar type terminal body however the electronic device of the present invention is not limited to thereto and may have various structures such as a scroll type a curvedly bent type a slide type in which two or more bodies are coupled to reciprocally move and a folder type.

As illustrated in the electronic device includes a front surface a side surface and a rear surface and includes both ends formed along a length direction. The body includes a case forming the exterior of the electronic device and the case may be classified into a front case and a rear case. Various types of components included in the electronic device may be arranged in the space formed between the front case and the rear case. When the electronic device corresponds to the electronic device disclosed with reference to the components included in the electronic device may be located in the case or may be located in the space formed between the front case and the rear case. For example the camera module the sensor module a button and the display may be located in the case included in the body of the electronic device . The display occupies a main part of the front case. The camera module may be located in at least one of the front case and the rear case included in the body of the electronic device . As shown in the camera module is arranged on the front case of the electronic device and is located in an area close to one of the end parts of the display .

Referring to a rear perspective view of an electronic device is provided. As shown in the camera module is arranged on the rear surface of the body of the electronic device and is located in the rear case.

The front camera module and the rear camera module may have different photographing directions. The rear camera module may be configured to be capable of performing photography in higher definition than the front camera module . A flash is disposed in an area adjacent to the rear camera module . When the image is acquired through the rear camera module the flash may shine a light toward a subject for photography.

The sensor module is disposed on one surface of the body of the electronic device . As shown in the sensor module is arranged on the rear surface of the body of the electronic device and is located in the rear case. When the flash is disposed on the rear case the sensor module is located in an area adjacent to the flash . Alternatively the sensor module may be located in an area adjacent to the rear camera module .

Additionally when the user grasps the electronic device by the hand to acquire an image through the front camera module the sensor module may be disposed on a position of the rear case which user s fingers can reach. In this case at least some of the user s fingers which grasp the electronic device may be objects from which the physiological signal is measured by the sensor module .

When the button is disposed on the front case the sensor module may be located in an area adjacent to the button or combined with the button .

The biometric sensor included in the sensor module may be an HRM sensor an HRV sensor an ECG sensor or an SpO2 sensor.

The biometric sensor included in the sensor module includes a light emitting unit for generating an incident light and irradiating the light to the subject to be examined and a light receiving unit for receiving a reflected light from the subject to be examined.

The sensor module may be a PPG sensor including the light emitting unit and the light receiving unit . The light emitting unit may be implemented as a Light Emitting Diode LED . Further the light emitting unit may be implemented as one or more LEDs having different wavelengths. The different wavelengths may be rays including visible rays or infrared rays. The physiological signal for example a PPG signal is detected based on the reflected light received through the light receiving unit .

Referring to a user may place the front camera module located on the front surface of the body of the electronic device toward the user and may control an operation of the front camera module by a subject such as the user s hand grasping the body of the electronic device .

Referring to physiological information on the user is received through the sensor module located in the rear case of the body of the electronic device . For example the electronic device receives through the sensor module configured to include the biometric sensor an input signal including physiological information on the subject to be examined which corresponds to at least a part of the subject for example fingers grasping the body of the electronic device . The control module detects an input operation corresponding to a movement of the part of the subject which is the subject to be examined based on the input signal. The control module then controls the front camera module to acquire an image at least based on the input operation.

Referring to the electronic device acquires the image through the camera module based on the input operation on the surface of the sensor module by the subject to be examined and displays the image on the display .

Referring to the sensor module includes the light emitting unit and the light receiving unit . The light emitting unit generates an incident light and irradiate the light toward the subject to be examined corresponding to a part of the human tissues and the light receiving unit receives a reflected light that is generated when the incident light penetrating the subject to be examined is reflected and returned.

The incident light generated from the light emitting unit may be implemented to have a particular wavelength. The incident light may be for example a ray indicating a green light. Since the green incident light has a relatively low skin transmittance and high absorption compared to visible lights of other colors the green incident light may be used for a wearable device worn on the wrist. Further the incident light may be for example a ray indicating a red light.

Alternatively the light emitting unit may be implemented as one or more LEDs to generate different wavelengths. The one or more LEDs may generate for example visible lights of green red or other colors or generate an Infrared IR .

As shown in for example the light emitting unit includes a first light emitting unit and a second light emitting unit having different wavelengths. The first light emitting unit and the second light emitting unit irradiate incident lights of different wavelengths to the subject to be examined and each of the reflected incident lights is received by the light receiving unit .

The sensor module may be configured to include a PPG sensor including the light emitting unit and the light receiving unit . As the heart within the human body contracts and relaxes a blood flow rate of peripheral blood vessel changes and accordingly volumes of the peripheral blood vessels also change. The PPG sensor measures a change in the volume of the peripheral blood vessel by detecting a penetration amount of the light irradiated to the subject to be examined and measures one or more of a change in a blood amount and blood oxygen saturation within the vessel based on the change in the volume of the peripheral blood vessel. The PPG sensor measures a variation in a time interval between heart rates or heartbeats per unit time based on the measured change in the blood amount within the vessel. Accordingly the PPG sensor may operate as a Heart Rate Monitor HRM which can measure a heart rate based on the measured blood amount information.

The human tissue corresponding to the subject to be examined may be for example a finger. While the contact state of the subject on the surface of the sensor module is maintained for a predetermined time after the subject to be examined contacts the surface of the sensor module the sensor module detects a change in the blood amount within the human tissue corresponding to the subject to be examined according to a contraction period and a relaxation period. For example the sensor module detects a change in brightness since it is relatively dark in the contraction period since the blood amount increases and it is relatively bright in the relaxation period since the blood amount decreases. The measurement module included in the sensor module detects the light reflected from a vessel within the human tissue through the light receiving unit and converts the detected light into an electrical signal so as to acquire the physiological signal of the subject to be examined. For example the sensor module converts an amount of the light detected by the light receiving unit into voltage and receives the voltage as an input and calculates an elapsed time between heart rates or heartbeats based on the measurement of a voltage change period.

The control module analyzes the HRV based on the physiological signal received by the sensor module and acquires physiological information including autonomic nervous system information of the subject to be examined based on a result of the analysis. The analysis is an analysis of a frequency area of the HRV for example analysis of power peak information generated in a particular frequency band based on Power Spectrum Density PSD . The PSD may include a correlation function method a fast Fourier transform or an autoregressive technique. The physiological information acquired based on a result of the analysis of the HRV may be information related to immune deficiency physical stress physical fatigue lack of sleep chronic stress depression and emotion for example preference fright arousal state etc. .

The control module measures oxygen saturation based on the physiological signal received by the sensor module . To this end the sensor module may include an oxygen saturation sensor and the oxygen saturation sensor measures a ratio of the hemoglobin saturated with oxygen of the total hemoglobin. The sensor module for measuring the oxygen saturation may include the light emitting unit including a red LED and an IR LED. Since a red wavelength and an IR wavelength have different reaction sensitivities to a change in oxygen saturation of arterial blood SpO2 is measured through a difference between the sensitivities. Physiological information acquired based on a result of the measurement of SpO2 may be information on burned calories a difficulty in breathing clouded consciousness or a body state during an exercise.

Referring to the control module detects an input operation corresponding to a particular movement of the subject to be examined with respect to the surface of the sensor module at least based on the input signal including the physiological signal. The input operation may be distinguished based on a particular area within a particular distance from the surface of the sensor module . The particular area may be a detection area in which the sensor module can detect the subject to be examined. Further the detection area may be an area within a particular range distance from the sensor module so that the physiological signal received by the sensor module can indicate meaningful physiological information.

For example the detection area may be an area within a distance in which a measurable signal for the subject to be examined can be received or an area in which a signal corresponding to a particular percentage of the intensity of the maximum measurable signal can be received. The control module determines the proximity of the subject to be examined or whether the subject to be examined makes contact based on the input signal including the physiological signal of the subject to be examined. The input operation may include for example an approach operation a contact operation or a separation operation.

The approach operation is an operation by which the subject to be examined enters the detection area that is an operation by which the subject to be examined enters a location of the subject to be examined within the detection area. The contact operation may be an operation by which the subject to be examined contacts at least a part of the surface of the sensor module or an operation by which the subject to be examined moves to a location of the subject to be examined to contact the surface of the sensor module . The separation operation may be an operation by which the subject moves away from the surface of the sensor module or an operation by which the subject to be examined separates from the surface of the sensor module and moves to the location of the subject to be examined.

Hereinafter a method of determining the proximity of the subject to be examined will be described. According to various embodiments described below the control module may detect an input operation of the subject to be examined by determining whether the subject to be examined enters the detection area based on the input signal including the physiological signal whether the subject to be examined contacts at least a part of the surface of the sensor module or whether the subject to be examined separates with the surface of the sensor module .

When the subject to be examined contacts at least a part of the PPG sensor the PPG sensor receives the physiological signal including at least one of a DC component and an AC component. The AC component is a signal of a component which varies relatively quickly depending on the heartbeat due to contraction and relaxation of the heart and the DC component is a signal of a component which varies relatively slowly depending on blood volume and an absorption degree or a reflection degree of the tissues surrounding the vessel regardless of the heartbeat among the physiological signal.

Referring to the control module determines the proximity of the subject to be examined or whether the subject to be examined contacts based on at least one of a signal level and a signal pattern of the DC component or the AC component of the physiological signal received by the PPC sensor.

Referring to an example of a waveform of the physiological signal including only the DC component is provided.

Referring to an example of a waveform of the physiological signal including both the DC component and the AC component is provided.

The control module may determine whether the subject to be examined makes contact based on whether a signal level of the physiological signal is larger than a particular value. The signal level may be a physiological signal value determined based on the DC component or the AC component.

The control module may determine whether the subject to be examined makes contact based on whether a level value of the DC component of the physiological signal is larger than a particular value.

The control module may determine whether the subject to be examined makes contact based on whether a level value of the AC component of the physiological signal is within a particular value.

For example when the level values of the DC component are classified into a first range a second range and a third range first range

When detecting the input operation corresponding to the movement based on the physiological signal of the subject to be examined the control module detects an approach operation when a change from the first range to the second range is detected a contract operation when a change from the second range to the third range is detected and a separation operation when a change from the third range to the second range is detected.

In another example when the level value of the DC component which can be measured through the PPG sensor ranges from 0 to 200 000 the first range is less than or equal to 60 000 the second range is greater than 60 000 and less than 100 000 and the third range is greater than or equal to 100 000.

In another example compared to the maximum value of the level value of the DC component the first range may be less than or equal to 30 the second range may be less than 50 and the third range may be greater than or equal to 50 .

The level value of the DC component corresponding to the physiological signal may become different through a process of amplifying the received signal. When the subject to be examined is located outside the detection area the level of the DC component of the physiological signal may become different by an ambient light of the electronic device so that an operation for removing the component by the ambient light is first performed.

The control module may determine the proximity of the subject to be examined or whether the subject to be examined makes contact based on the signal pattern of the physiological signal. For example the control module may determine the proximity of the subject to be examined or whether the subject to be examined makes contact based on an amplitude of the AC component included in the physiological signal. As the amplitude of the AC component of the physiological signal is small a difference in an increase and a decrease of the light received by the light receiving unit according to vasodilation in the contraction period and vasoconstriction in the relaxation period decreases. In this case it is determined as a non contact state or a proximity state rather than the contact state in which the physiological signal of the subject to be examined is sufficiently received.

For example when the amplitude of the AC component is classified into a first range and a second range the control module determines that the subject to be examined is located outside the detection area if a maximum or average amplitude change measured using peaks of the AC component included in the physiological signal is in the first range and determines that the subject to be examined is located inside the detection area if the maximum or average amplitude change is in the second range. In this case when detecting the input operation corresponding to the movement of the subject to be examined the control module detects that the input operation corresponds to the approach operation if a change from the first range to the second change is detected. For example compared to the maximum amplitude of the AC component included in the physiological signal the first range may be below 20 and the second range may be from 20 to 60 .

According to another embodiment when detecting the input operation corresponding to the movement of the subject to be examined the control module detects the contact operation if the amplitude for example a peak value of the AC component included in the physiological signal is larger than or equal to a particular amplitude and detects the separation operation if the amplitude of the AC component is smaller than the particular amplitude.

When detecting the input operation corresponding to the movement of the subject to be examined the control module detects the contact operation if a state in which the amplitude of the peak value of the AC component included in the physiological signal becomes larger than or equal to the particular amplitude is maintained for a predetermined time or a predetermined number of successive peak values remain in the value larger than or equal to the particular amplitude and detects the separation operation if a state in which the amplitude of the peak value becomes smaller than the particular amplitude is maintained for the predetermined time or the predetermined number of successive peak values remains in the value smaller than the particular amplitude.

When detecting the input operation corresponding to the movement of the subject to be examined if a DC component included in the physiological signal is close to a maximum reception level value and an AC component included in the physiological signal is very weak which is equal to or small than a particular level the control module detects the state in which the subject to be examined is located inside the detection area or the non contact or proximity state rather than the contact state in which the subject to be examined contacts the surface of the sensor module . In this case the control module determines that an amount of the light received by the light receiving unit included in the sensor module is large but the reflected light or transmitted light of the subject to be examined is not measured.

When the sensor module includes an illumination sensor the control module determines the proximity of the subject to be examined or whether the subject to be examined makes contact based on a level of an amount of the light received through the illumination sensor and the physiological signal.

As described in the aforementioned various embodiments the control module detects the input operation of the subject to be examined corresponding to the movement of the subject to be examined based on the input signal including the physiological signal.

When a condition for activating the biometric sensor is met the control module activates the sensor module to include the physiological signal in the input signal. For example when the camera module is activated if the face of the subject for photography is detected in a preview image received through the camera module if the proximity of the subject to be examined is detected by the proximity sensor included in the sensor module or if the existence of the subject to be examined is detected through a periodical monitoring by the PPG sensor included in the sensor module the control module considers that the condition for activation is met and thus activates the biometric sensor. Thereafter the sensor module receives the input signal including the physiological signal acquired through the activated biometric sensor. While the sensor module receives the input signal including the physiological signal acquired through the activated biometric sensor the control module may control the audio module to output audio data or control the motor or a haptic module to output tactile feedback or force feedback.

Accordingly the electronic device performs an operation of receiving the physiological signal of the user through the biometric sensor and an operation of acquiring an image through the camera module of the electronic device at least based on the change in the physiological signal. The change in the physiological signal is detected based on at least one of a level and a pattern of the physiological signal.

Referring to the electronic device receives an input signal including a physiological signal detects an input operation based on the input signal and controls the camera module according to the input operation.

The sensor module receives an input signal including a physiological signal in step . For example when the user grasping the electronic device approaches or contacts the sensor module the sensor module acquires the physiological signal from the subject to be examined which corresponds to a part of the user s body. The sensor module may be a PPG sensor or an ECG sensor and the physiological signal may be a PPG signal or an ECG signal. The sensor module may further include sensors for measuring a physical quantity related to the electronic device . In this case the sensor module acquires a measurement signal for the physical quantity related to the electronic device . The input signal includes the physiological signal and may further include the measurement signal. The measurement signal is a measurement value of another physical quantity for example proximity by the illumination sensor for the part of the user s body.

The control module detects an input operation at least based on the input signal in step . The control module detects an input operation of the subject to be examined based on the physiological signal included in the input signal. Further the control module detects the input operation of the subject to be examined based on at least one of the physiological signal included in the input signal and another measurement signal. The input operation is detected based on at least one of a signal level or a signal pattern of the input signal.

The input operation detected by the control module may be an approach operation and the approach operation is an operation by which the subject to be examined enters the detection area from the outside of the detection area.

The input operation detected by the control module may be a contact operation and the contact operation is an operation by which the subject to be examined contacts at least a part of the surface of the sensor module .

The input operation detected by the control module may be a separation operation and the separation operation is an operation by which the subject to be examined is separated from the surface of the sensor module .

The control module acquires an image through the camera module according to the input operation in step . When the input operation is the contact operation the control module controls the camera module to acquire the image. When the input operation is the separation operation the control module controls the camera module to acquire the image. When the input operation is the approach operation the control module controls to change a setting for example a focus control or a white balance control of the camera module .

The control module control the camera module to start acquiring the image when the input operation is a first input operation and to end acquiring the image when the input operation is a second input operation. For example photographing is started by a first contact operation and the photographing is terminated when a second contact operation is made after the generation of the separation operation. Alternatively when a multi touch that is two contact operations are generated by different fingers the image acquisition is started by the contact operation of the first finger and the image acquisition is terminated by the contact operation of the second finger. By the plurality of input operations a panorama image or a video including a plurality of images may be photographed.

The control module controls the camera module based on one or more input operations detected at least based on the input signal a time for which each of the input operations is maintained or sequences of the one or more input operations. Further the control module changes a setting of the camera module to acquire the image according to the one or more input operations. Hereinafter various embodiments of this document will describe that the control module controls the camera module at least based on one or more detected input operations.

Alternatively the control module may control the camera module or the audio module based on one or more detected input operations at least based on a time when the input operation is generated. In this case the control module performs an operation for continuously acquiring one or more of images or audio data through at least one of the camera module and the audio module and temporarily stores the images or audio data in the memory of the electronic device for a predetermined maintenance time tp for example 10 seconds from the acquisition time. Accordingly when the input operation is generated the control module stores one or more of images or audio data from the time t tp which is earlier than the time t when the input operation is generated by the predetermined maintenance time to the time when the input operation is generated.

When the input operation is generated the control module may acquire and store one or more of images or audio data during a predetermined maintenance time tn from the time t when the input operation is generated.

Alternatively the control module store one or more of images or audio data for a time from a time earlier than the time t when the input operation is generated by a first maintenance time to a time later than the time t when the input operation is generated by a second maintenance time. For example when the input operation is generated a sound shot for example an operation for recording audio data for a predetermined time including the time before or after the photographing time and correlating the recorded audio data with one or more images function may be performed.

Referring to the electronic device receives an input signal including a physiological signal such as a user bringing a part of the body including a finger into contact with the sensor module based on the input signal and when it is detected that the contact state is maintained for a predetermined time acquires an image through the camera module after a predetermined time elapses. The control module recognizes the contact operation or the contact maintenance state according to the contact operation as a control command that instructs to perform a preparation operation to acquire the image.

For example the sensor module receives an input signal including a physiological signal of the subject to be examined and the control module detects the contact operation at least based on the input signal in step .

When the contact operation is detected the control module changes a setting of the camera module in preparation for acquiring the image in step . An operation for changing the setting may be an operation for controlling the focus of the camera module . Further the operation for changing the setting may be an operation for controlling white balance of the camera module. The operation for changing the setting may be an operation for controlling at least one of ISO exposure aperture and shutter speed.

The control module detects whether the contact state between the subject to be examined and the sensor module is maintained for a predetermined time after the contact operation at least based on the input signal including the physiological signal in step .

When the contact state between the subject to be examined and the sensor module remains for the predetermined time the control module acquires the image through the camera module in step .

According to another embodiment when after bringing the body part into contact with the sensor module continuously for a predetermined time the user repeats separation and contact of the body part with respect to the sensor module the control module may acquire the image through the camera module at every contact time. For example when after detecting the contact operation at least based on the input signal and detecting that the contact state is maintained for a predetermined time after the contact operation the control module repeatedly detects the separation operation and the contact operation the control module may repeatedly acquire the image through the camera module according to the separation operation and the contact operation.

According to another embodiment when after maintaining the contact state between the body part and the sensor module for a predetermined time the user repeats separation and contact of the body part with respect to the sensor module the control module may measure the number of times by which the separation and the contact are repeated and switch to a predetermined setting or mode. For example when after detecting the contact operation at least based on the input signal and detecting that the contact state is maintained for a predetermined time after the contact operation the control module repeatedly detects the separation operation and the contact operation the control module may switch a camera photographing mode according to the separation operation and the contact operation. For example when the control module detects the separation after two contacts for a predetermined time the control module may switch the photographing mode to a night photographing mode.

As another example when the control module detects the separation after three contacts for a predetermined time the control module switch the photographing mode to a sports photographing mode.

When an application program for acquiring an image is not executed in the electronic device the control module may execute the application program as the control module detects the contact of the part of the user s body to the sensor module. For example after detecting the contact operation and executing the application program for acquiring the image the control module changes a setting of the camera module . Thereafter when the contact state between the subject to be examined and the sensor module remains for the predetermined time the control module acquires the image through the camera module .

Referring to after the user brings the body part such as a finger into contact with the sensor module based on an input signal including a physiological signal the electronic device acquires an image through the camera module when the user separates the body part from the sensor module .

The sensor module receives an input signal including a physiological signal of the subject to be examined and the control module detects the contact operation at least based on the input signal in step .

When the contact operation is detected the control module changes a setting of the camera module as the preparation for acquiring the image in step . An operation for changing the setting may be an operation for controlling the focus of the camera module . Further the operation for changing the setting may be an operation for controlling white balance of the camera module. The operation for changing the setting may be an operation for controlling at least one of ISO exposure aperture and shutter speed.

The control module detects a separation operation by which the subject to be examined is separated from the surface of the sensor module after the contact operation at least based on the input signal including the physiological signal in step .

The control module acquires an image through the camera module according to the detected separation operation in step .

The control module may ignore other photographing commands for acquiring the image except for the detection of the separation operation after the contact operation is detected. For example the control module may ignore automatic photographing conditions which can be implemented by the electronic device for example conditions for acquiring the image when a particular pose of the subject for photography included in a preview image is detected when a smiling face is detected and when a particular movement pattern is detected or conditions for acquiring the image when another input signal is received and may acquire the image only when the separation operation is detected.

Referring to when after bringing the body part such as a finger into contact with the sensor module based on the input signal including the physiological signal the user maintains the contact state for a predetermined time the electronic device may acquire an image through a camera after a waiting time from the separation of the body part from the sensor module by the user.

The sensor module receives an input signal including a physiological signal of the subject to be examined and the control module detects the contact operation at least based on the input signal in step .

When the contact operation is detected the control module changes a setting of the camera module in preparation for acquiring the image in step .

The control module determines whether the contact state between the subject to be examined and the sensor module according to the contact operation is maintained for at least a predetermined time in step .

When the control module detects the separation operation by which the subject to be examined is separated from the surface of the sensor module in step the control module waits until a particular waiting time elapses in step before acquiring the image in step . The particular waiting time may be determined based on a time for which the contact state is maintained. The control module may display a waiting state on the display for the particular waiting time for example in the form of a graphic object.

Referring to after the detection of the separation operation the control module displays a graphic object indicating the start of the particular waiting time on the display and then changes the graphic object to a graphic object after the particular waiting time elapses. The control module acquires an image through the camera module after the particular waiting time elapses.

When the image is acquired through the camera module the control module may record a voice for a particular recording time through a microphone included in the electronic device . The control module may determine the particular recording time based on the time for which the contact state is maintained. The control module stores the voice together with the image.

Referring to the sensor module includes the light emitting unit and the light receiving unit and the light emitting unit includes a first light emitting unit and a second light emitting unit having light emitting diodes of different wavelengths. The first light emitting unit may include for example LEDs emitting an infrared light and the second light emitting unit may include for example LEDs emitting a red visible light.

When the light emitting unit is implemented as one or more LEDs the light receiving unit receives reflected lights generated when incident lights of different wavelengths penetrate the subject to be examined and then reflected and returned. The sensor module detects a movement direction of the subject to be examined on the sensor module by detecting contact sequences between the one or more LEDs and the subject to be examined based on the received reflected lights.

The sensor module may generate incident lights from the one or more LEDs simultaneously or at different times. Accordingly the sensor module detects the activated LED at a particular time among the one or more LEDs and thus detects the movement direction of the subject to be examined on the sensor module .

The control module detects the movement direction of the subject to be examined at least based on the input signal received through the sensor module including the biometric sensor configured to include one or more LEDs. In this case the control module controls the electronic device based on the movement direction.

Referring to after displaying an acquired image on the display the control module detects a movement direction of the subject to be examined from a first location to a second location on the surface of the sensor module disposed on the rear surface of the electronic device moves the image in the movement direction and displays another image according to the movement of the image. In the movement direction of the subject to be examined is opposite to the movement direction of the images on the display . That is the movement direction of the subject to be examined which contacts the sensor module disposed on the rear surface of the electronic device or closely crosses over the sensor module corresponds to a direction from right to left and the movement direction of the image on the display disposed on the front surface of the electronic device corresponds to a direction from left to right. Further a speed of contents which moves on the display may vary depending on a movement speed of the subject to be examined.

The control module moves the content while displaying the content on the display by controlling the electronic device based on the movement direction. For example the contents may be a webpage and the movement operation may be a scroll operation. As another example the contents may be one or more pages of an electronic book and the movement operation may be a page turn effect operation of the electronic book. As yet another example the contents may be a menu focus for example highlight cursor or selection indication displayed on a menu and the movement operation may be a movement operation of the menu focus.

Referring to the sensor module includes the light emitting unit and the light receiving unit and the light receiving unit may include one or more light receiving diodes such as a first light receiving diode a second light receiving diode a third light receiving diode and a fourth light receiving diode . In this case an incident light generated by the light emitting unit is reflected after penetrating the subject to be examined and is received through each light receiving diode. The control module detects a direction of the movement of the subject to be examined on the sensor module based on positions of the one or more light receiving diodes and a difference or a change in the physiological signal received by each light receiving diode.

When the light receiving unit includes two or more light receiving diodes a arranged on left and right sides from the center of the light emitting unit the control module detects left and right movement directions of the subject to be examined on the sensor module .

When the light receiving unit includes four light receiving diodes for example the first light receiving diode the second light receiving diode the third light receiving diode and the fourth light receiving diode the four light receiving diodes are arranged on the top bottom left and right sides from the center of the light emitting unit respectively. In this case the control module detects left and right movement directions or top bottom left and right movement directions of the subject to be examined on the sensor module .

The number of light receiving diodes according to the above described embodiment is only an example and the light receiving unit may include a different number of light receiving diodes.

The control module may detect the movement direction of the subject to be examined at least based on the input signal received through the sensor module including the biometric sensor configured to include one or more light receiving diodes. In this case the control module controls the electronic device based on the movement direction as described above.

Referring to the sensor module may be formed to cover a switch disposed on the body of the electronic device . The sensor module includes a biometric sensor arranged above a button that covers the switch in an accumulated form. The button and the sensor module may be functionally connected to control image acquisition through the camera module . For example when the sensor module is formed to be disposed above the button the user contacts the sensor module before pressing the button so that the sensor module receives a physiological signal of a user s body part for example finger corresponding to the subject to be examined. In this case the control module detects an input operation at least based on an input signal including the physiological signal and accordingly controls the electronic device based on the input operation a result of the determination on whether the switch opens or shuts or both the input operation and the result of the determination on whether the switch opens or shuts.

The electronic device may include sensors for measuring other physical quantities between the sensor module and the button above the sensor module or below the button . Although it has been described that the button is formed on the front case of the electronic device the button may be disposed on another surface of the electronic device .

Referring to an electronic device including the sensor module formed to cover the button is provided.

When the biometric sensor included in the sensor module is deactivated the control module activates the biometric sensor after detecting the press of a button as shown in step a . Further the control module may execute an application program for acquiring an image through the camera module according to the activation of the biometric sensor.

When the control module detects a contact operation or a separation operation of the subject to be examined at least based on the input signal received through the sensor module and detects the press of the button after the contact operation the control module changes a setting of the camera module as shown in step b . For example the control module may control the focus or white balance according to the contact operation even before the press of the button is detected. The contact operation may correspond to a half press to focus for controlling the focus of the camera module .

Thereafter as shown in step c the control module acquires the image through the camera module according to the press of the switch . The control module deactivates the biometric sensor according to the separation operation as shown in step d .

Referring to the sensor module may include a fingerprint recognition sensor. In this case the sensor module receives an input signal including information on the fingerprint of the subject to be examined through the fingerprint recognition sensor. The control module controls the electronic device based on the fingerprint information.

The sensor module receives an input signal including a physiological signal and fingerprint information and the control module detects an input operation at least based on the input signal in step .

The control module identifies the user based on the fingerprint information included in the input signal in step .

The control module acquires an image through the camera module according to the input operation in step .

The control module detects whether the user is included in the image in step and when the user is included in the image stores the image in a protected storage space in step . The protected storage space may be a secure area existing within the electronic device a personal storage space for the user a personal storage area based on an external device of the electronic device or a service.

When the fingerprint is determined as the fingerprint of the user who is not identified the control module may acquire an image through the camera module according to the input operation and store the image in a guest storage space. The guest storage space may be a published area existing within the electronic device for example a memory which can be accessed without user authentication or a personal storage area based on a service an internal or external device of the electronic device storing at least one of the fingerprint information or the image to record the user when the electronic device is stolen.

When the physiological information acquired through the sensor module is heart rate information the control module may control the electronic device to process the image by using the heart rate information. The electronic device may acquire heart rate information of the subject to be examined at least based on the physiological signal acquired through the sensor module . The control module may display the heart rate information on the display together with the image of the user corresponding to the subject to be examined.

Referring to the sensor module receives an input signal including a physiological signal of the subject to be examined and the control module detects a contact operation as an input operation at least based on the input signal in step .

The control module acquires the heart rate information of the subject to be examined at least based on the physiological signal while the contact operation is maintained in step .

The control module displays a preview image acquired through the camera module on the display and also displays heart rate information together with the preview image in step .

The control module detects a separation operation during a contact state in step and acquire the image by controlling the camera module in step .

The control module may store the image such that the heart rate information is included in the image.

The control module may detect the image of the user corresponding to the subject to be examined included in the preview image and display the image of the user and the heart rate information such that the image of the user and the heart rate information are correlated to each other.

An operation for designating one or more display attributes for example a location size color shape icon avatar and predetermined template of the heart rate information while the preview image is displayed may be further included.

The heart rate information may be information related to stress or emotion determined based on the physiological signal collected through the HRM sensor or the HRV sensor and display attributes of the heart rate information may be designated or changed based on information on the corresponding stress or emotion.

Referring to for example the sensor module receives an input signal including a physiological signal of the subject to be examined and the control module detects an input operation at least based on the input signal in step .

The control module acquires heart rate information of the subject to be examined at least based on the physiological signal in step .

The control module acquires an image through the camera module according to the input operation in step .

The control module detects within the image a user image corresponding to the subject to be examined in step . When images of a plurality of people and are included in the image the control module detects the user image corresponding to the subject to be examined according to the heart rate information physiological information or a user setting. The electronic device may include a database including the user image corresponding to the heart rate information and the user image may be detected based on the database.

The control module displays the acquired image on the display and displays the heart rate information such that the heart rate information is correlated to the user image in a graphic object or text form in step .

The control module may display emotional information based on the physiological information together with the image.

Referring to the sensor module receives an input signal including a physiological signal of the subject to be examined and the control module detects an input operation at least based on the input signal in step .

The control module acquires emotional information of the subject to be examined at least based on the physiological signal in step . The emotional information may include for example joy shyness sorrow or excitement. The emotional information may be acquired based on heart rate information.

The control module determines that the emotional information corresponds to joy by detecting an increase in the heart rate for a predetermined time or a particular pattern of the heart rate signal.

Alternatively the control module may acquire the emotional information by identifying an emotional state shown in the preview image acquired through the camera module . For example the control module may acquire the emotional information based on at least one of a movement pattern of the user s body within the preview image a facial expression in a face image a face shape a movement pattern of the face for example a change in shape of the eyes or mouth existence or nonexistence of laughter and existence or nonexistence of blinking.

Further the control module acquires an image through the camera module according to the input operation in step .

The control module displays the emotional information on the display together with the image in step .

The control module may change the user s facial expression shown in the image according to the emotional information. More specifically the control module may analyze feature points of the user s face and change a location of a feature point associated with the emotional information among the feature points. When the emotional information corresponds to joy the control module may change the user s facial expression by changing locations of the feature points corresponding to the mouth such that the mouth corner lifts or lips part so as to represent the user s smiling face in the image.

The control module may change a part of all of the colors of the user s face shown in the image according to the emotional information. For example when the emotional information corresponds to excitement or shyness the control module may make a red color appear on the cheek of the face of the user shown in the image.

The control module may identify people included in the image acquire physiological information or emotional information of the user corresponding to the subject to be examined and other people and display the physiological information and emotional information together. To this end the electronic device can communicate with another device including physiological information of the identified people. The control module may acquire the physiological information of the user based on the physiological signal included in the input signal received through the sensor module and acquire the physiological information of other people through communication with another electronic device corresponding to face recognition information.

Referring to for example physiological information of the user corresponding to the subject to be examined is acquired through the sensor module of the electronic device and correlated to the user . Further physiological information and of other users and may be acquired through communication or wearable devices of the other users and and correlated to the other users and .

The control module may store physiological information or emotional information together with the image acquired through the camera module . The physiological information or the emotional information may be stored in a meta information area of a file format for the image.

Referring to the sensor module receives an input signal including a physiological signal of the subject to be examined and the control module detects the input operation at least based on the input signal. The control module combines one or more images acquired according to the detected input operation to generate connected images for example panorama images.

When the contact operation is detected the control module of the electronic device acquires a reference image through the camera module and acquires one or more images connected to the reference image according to up and bottom or left and right rotation of the body of the electronic device . The control module displays a guide for indicating locations of the one or more images connected to the reference image according to the rotation of the body on the display of the electronic device . The guide displays a photographing direction or a photographing location. When another input operation is detected the control module combines the reference image and the one or more images. For example the combination may correspond to a combination of the one or more images corresponding to images above or below the reference image according to the top and bottom rotation of the body or a combination of the one or more images corresponding to images on the left or right side of the reference image according to the left and right rotation of the body. The other input operation may be another contact operation or separation operation.

Referring to when the contact operation with respect to the sensor module arranged on the rear surface of the body of the electronic device is detected the control module acquires a reference image through the camera module arranged on the front surface of the body of the electronic device . The reference image may include an image corresponding to the user of the electronic device .

Referring to the control module acquires at least one image or corresponding to an image on the right side of the reference image through the camera module as the body of the electronic device rotates counterclockwise. At least one image or may include at least some areas of the reference image

Referring to the control module acquires at least one image or corresponding to an image on the left side of the reference image through the camera module as the body of the electronic device rotates clockwise. At least one image or may include at least some areas of the reference image

Referring to when an additional contact operation is detected or when a separation operation is detected after a contact state according to the contact operation is maintained for a particular time the control module generates one image by connecting the reference image and at least one image or

Further the embodiments disclosed in this document are only for the description and understanding of technical contents and do not limit the scope of the present invention. Accordingly it should be understood by those skilled in the art to which the present invention pertains that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. Therefore the scope of the present invention is defined not by the detailed description of the present invention but by the appended claims and their equivalents and thus all differences within the scope will be construed as being included in the present invention.

