---

title: Approach to asthma inhaler compliance using breath measurement of tetrafluoroethane
abstract: The invention relates to measuring the effectiveness and an compliance of inhaler medication, such as for asthma treatment. In one embodiment, the invention provides a method of determining the effectiveness of an inhaler medication, comprising taking a measurement of HFA-134(a) from an exhaled breath of an individual after the individual has inhaled a medication, and determining an effective administration of the medication based on the presence of a high level of HFA-134(a).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09581586&OS=09581586&RS=09581586
owner: The Regents of the University of California
number: 09581586
owner_city: Oakland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150514
---
The present application claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of provisional application Ser. No. 61 994 814 filed May 16 2014 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

The U.S. Government has a paid up license in this invention and the right in limited circumstances to require the patent owner to license others on reasonable terms as provided for by the terms of Grant Nos. P01 HD048721 and UL1 RR031985 awarded by the National Institutes of Health.

The invention relates to the field of medicine and more specifically to medical devices related to inhaler medications and treatments.

All publications herein are incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent application was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference. The following description includes information that may be useful in understanding the present invention. It is not an admission that any of the information provided herein is prior art or relevant to the presently claimed invention or that any publication specifically or implicitly referenced is prior art.

Asthma inhalers i.e. inhaled corticosteroids are the first line of asthma treatment. However one of the most vexing problems facing clinicians and researchers has been the lack of technologies to measure treatment compliance and or efficacy. The typical methods to measure ICS compliance patient self report of medication use and medication canister weighing or counting actuations are not optimal for both adults and children. Patient self report of asthma inhaler use is notoriously inaccurate. Other advanced methods such as electronic monitoring of ICS compliance are limited because it will not be able to detect whether the medication is actually inhaled. Thus there is a need in the art for a readily accessible method to identify asthma inhaler compliance or treatment efficacy.

Various embodiments herein include a method of determining the effectiveness of an inhaler medication comprising taking a measurement of HFA 134 a from an exhaled breath of an individual after the individual has inhaled a medication and determining an effective administration of the medication based on the presence of a high level of HFA 134 a . In another embodiment the individual is being treated for asthma. In another embodiment the medication is a cortico steroid. In another embodiment the medication is a short acting bronchodilator. In another embodiment the medication is Flovent HFA or Proventil HFA. In another embodiment the medication is a 2 agonist. In another embodiment the measurement of HFA 134 a is taken within 24 hours of inhaling the medication. In another embodiment the measurement of HFA 134 a is taken between 5 and 12 hours of inhaling the medication. In another embodiment the measurement of HFA 134 a is taken between 24 and 48 hours of inhaling the medication. In another embodiment the high level of HFA 134 a is at or above 300 106 pptv HFA 134 a levels. In another embodiment the high level of HFA 134 a is an at least 106 order of magnitude increase relative to normal levels. In another embodiment the high level of HFA 134 a is an at least 103 order of magnitude increase relative to ambient levels of HFA 134 a . In another embodiment the high level of HFA 134 a is an at least 102 order of magnitude increase relative to ambient levels of HFA 134 a . In another embodiment the high level of HFA 134 a is between 3 to 300 ppmv from measurements taken immediately after inhaling the medication. In another embodiment the high level of HFA 134 a is about 260 138 pptv or more in exhaled breath. In another embodiment the measurement of HFA 134 a in exhaled breath is taken within 48 hours of inhaling the medication.

Other embodiments include a device comprising an analytic system that can take a measurement of HFA 134 a from an exhaled breath of an individual after the individual has inhaled a medication take a measurement and quantify a corresponding ambient level of HFA 134 a and determine whether there has been an effective administration of the medication based on the presence of a high level of HFA 134 a relative to the corresponding ambient level of HFA 134 a . In another embodiment the HFA 134 a levels are measured and quantified using a mass spectrometer detector MSD . In another embodiment the device further comprises gas chromatography and mass spectrometry.

Other embodiments include a method to determine compliance and treatment efficacy with inhalers comprising examining hydrofluoroalkane HFA in the exhaled human breath as a biomarker of asthma inhaler compliance. In another embodiment the method further comprises two components 1 analytical technique to measure breath HFA in a range of parts permillion ppbv to parts per trillion pptv using gas chromatography and mass spectrometry and 2 multi compartmental analysis of HFA biotransport in the human airway following inhaled doses of ICS to estimate HFA elimination pharmacokinetic parameters such as rate constants.

Other features and advantages of the invention will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings which illustrate by way of example various embodiments of the invention.

All references cited herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety as though fully set forth. Unless defined otherwise technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. Hornyak et al. Introduction to Nanoscience and Nanotechnology CRC Press 2008 Singleton et al. Dictionary of Microbiology and Molecular Biology 3rd ed. J. Wiley Sons New York N.Y. 2001 March Advanced Organic Chemistry Reactions Mechanisms and Structure 7th ed. J. Wiley Sons New York N.Y. 2013 and Sambrook and Russel Molecular Cloning A Laboratory Manual 4th ed. Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press Cold Spring Harbor N.Y. 2012 provide one skilled in the art with a general guide to many of the terms used in the present application. One skilled in the art will recognize many methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein which could be used in the practice of the present invention. Indeed the present invention is in no way limited to the methods and materials described.

One skilled in the art will recognize many methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein which could be used in the practice of the present invention. Indeed the present invention is in no way limited to the methods and materials described.

As disclosed herein the inventors have developed a means of determining compliance and treatment efficacy with inhalers such as those used by asthmatics. In one embodiment the present invention provides 1 analytical technique to measure 1 1 1 2 tetrafluoroethane gas the most commonly used hydrofluoroalkane HFA in the inhaler s propellant in a patient s breath in a range of parts per million ppbv to parts per trillion pptv using gas chromatography and mass spectrometry and 2 multi compartmental analysis of HFA bio transport in the human airway following inhaled doses of ICS to estimate HFA elimination pharmacokinetic parameters such as rate constants. The measured breath HFA levels and estimated parameters can be used to investigate inhaler compliance and treatment efficacy.

In one embodiment the invention provides a non invasive method to determine compliance and treatment efficacy with inhalers such as those used by asthmatics. In one embodiment a key aspect of this invention is to examine hydrofluoroalkane HFA the inhaler s aerosol propellant in the exhaled human breath as a potential biomarker of asthma inhaler compliance.

In another embodiment the present invention provides two main components 1 analytical technique to measure breath HFA in a range of parts per million ppbv to parts per trillion pptv using gas chromatography and mass spectrometry and 2 multi compartmental analysis of HFA bio transport in the human airway following inhaled doses of ICS to estimate HFA elimination pharmacokinetic parameters such as rate constants. The measured breath HFA levels and estimated parameters can be used to investigate inhaler compliance and treatment efficacy. For example HFA elimination parameters can be used to determine steady state HFA levels with repeated inhaler usage.

In another embodiment the present invention utilizes HFA because 1 HFA is the most commonly used volatile aerosol propellant CFC alternative since 1996 in metered dose inhalers to effectively deliver asthma medication to the lung and 2 HFA is mainly eliminated by exhalation.

In another embodiment the invention presents unique precision of breath HFA levels as low as parts per trillion pptv far exceeding previously reported HFA levels found either by the manufacturers or in the literature. This HFA detection levels are not yet available commercially.

As further described herein inhaled corticosteroids ICS and 2 agonists are the primary pharmacotherapies of asthma management. However suboptimal medication compliance is common in asthmatics and is associated with increased morbidity. In one embodiment the present invention provides exhaled breath measurements of the aerosol used in the inhaled medications to be used as surrogate markers for asthma medication compliance. As further described herein the inventors utilized ten healthy controls and randomly assigned to inhaled corticosteroids Flovent HFA or short acting bronchodilators Proventil HFA . Both inhalers contain HFA 134 a as aerosol propellant. Exhaled breath sampling and pulmonary function tests were performed prior to the inhaler medication dispersion immediately after inhalation then at 2 4 6 8 24 and 48 hours post administration. At baseline mean SD levels of HFA 134a in the breath were 252 156 pptv. Immediately after inhalation HFA 134 a breath levels increased to 300 10pptv and were still well above ambient levels 24 hours post administration. The calculated ratio of forced expiratory volume in 1 s over forced vital capacity FEV1 FVC did not change over time following inhaler administration. Thus breath HFA 134a levels can be used to assess inhaler medication compliance as well as be used to evaluate how effectively the medicine is delivered.

In one embodiment the present invention provides a method of determining the effectiveness of an inhaler medication comprising taking a measurement of HFA 134 a from an exhaled breath of an individual after the individual has inhaled a medication and determining an effective administration of the medication based on the presence of a high level of HFA 134 a . In another embodiment the individual is being treated for asthma. In another embodiment the high level of HFA 134 a is an at least 10order of magnitude increase relative to ambient levels of HFA 134 a .

In another embodiment the present invention provides a device comprising an analytic system that can take a measurement of HFA 134 a from an exhaled breath of an individual after the individual has inhaled a medication take a measurement and quantify a corresponding ambient level of HFA 134 a and determine whether there has been an effective administration of the medication based on the presence of a high level of HFA 134 a relative to the corresponding ambient level of HFA 134 a .

One skilled in the art will recognize many methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein which could be used in the practice of the present invention. Indeed the present invention is in no way limited to the methods and materials described. For purposes of the present invention the following terms are defined below.

The following examples are provided to better illustrate the claimed invention and are not to be interpreted as limiting the scope of the invention. To the extent that specific materials are mentioned it is merely for purposes of illustration and is not intended to limit the invention.

One skilled in the art may develop equivalent means or reactants without the exercise of inventive capacity and without departing from the scope of the invention.

As disclosed in herein the inventors have built on accomplishments that demonstrate the feasibility of their approach. Briefly that have collected and analyzed HFA levels in the exhaled breath of healthy controls n 10 25 48 yrs old at baseline prior to inhaler administration immediately after 

As further disclosed in the inventors re defined the experiment and have performed a compartmental pharmacokinetic analysis of HFA elimination kinetics using HFA at 5 min 7 min 10 min 15 min 30 min 1 hr 2 hr 3 hr 4 hr 6 hr 8 hr 12 hr. 24 hr 36 hr and 48 hr post Flovent HFA administration. The HFA elimination could be modeled using three compartment pharmacokinetic analysis Eq1 . 1000 3 Eq1 Where Amb represents ambient HFA 134a levels A A and Arepresent coefficient of the rate constant L L and L respectively L L and Lare rate constant in units of reciprocal minutes their corresponding half lives can be computed by 0.693 L 0.693 L and 0.693 L. The elimination rate constant in each compartment L L and L respectively are 0.1970 0.0183 and 0.0013 for subject 1 and 0.1720 0.0142 and 0.0018 for subject 2. The corresponding half lives are 0.97 20.7 and 442 minutes for subject 1 and 0.92 27.6 and 355 minutes for subject 2.

In accordance with an embodiment herein a key aspect of this invention is to use hydrofluoroalkane HFA in the exhaled human breath as a potential biomarker of asthma inhaler compliance. Breath HFA is attractive because 1 Breath HFA can be an objective measure of inhaler compliance because HFA is the most commonly used volatile aerosol propellant CFC alternative since 1996 in metered dose inhalers to effectively deliver asthma medication to the lung 2 One can measure HFA concentration in the exhaled breath for at least 48 hours after a typical single inhalation a useful interval in the clinical setting See details above 3 HFA is biologically inactive aerosol propellant and is mainly eliminated by exhalation 4 It is non invasive and allows for either real time detection or assessment later at a remote location 5 If the sample has been filtered during collection it poses unlike blood little if any biohazard to healthcare workers or laboratory technicians.

In one embodiment the invention presents unique precision of breath HFA levels as low as parts per trillion pptv far exceeding previously reported HFA levels found either by the manufacturers or in the literature. This HFA detection levels are not yet available commercially. The invention includes mathematical modeling of HFA elimination to establish appropriate compliance threshold and treatment efficacy window.

In one embodiment the invention tests an innovative noninvasive approach utilizing HFA in the exhaled breath toward monitoring asthma inhaler compliance and successfully demonstrates for the first time that 1 one can measure HFA concentration in the exhaled breath of healthy control participants and a symptomatic asthma subject and HFA concentration is still detectable at 48 hr post typical asthma inhaler administration and 2 HFA elimination in the breath of control participants followed a three compartment pharmacokinetic model.

In other embodiments to relate breath HFA concentrations and estimated HFA elimination parameters with circulating levels of i HFA and ii active asthma medication i.e. fluticasone and B To use exhaled breath biomarkers of drug metabolism. These gases will have a potential to be used as an adjunct to the breath HFA. To achieve these aims the inventors recruit symptomatic and non symptomatic asthma subjects and measure breath HFA levels over time to estimate HFA elimination parameters using mathematical compartmental analysis. In another embodiment the present invention provides a portable device that measures breath HFA levels as low as parts per trillion levels.

Inhaled corticosteroids ICS and 2 agonists are the primary pharmacotherapies of asthma management. However suboptimal medication compliance is common in asthmatics and is associated with increased morbidity. In one embodiment the present invention provides exhaled breath measurements of the aerosol used in the inhaled medications to be used as surrogate markers for asthma medication compliance. As further described herein the inventors utilized ten healthy controls and randomly assigned to inhaled corticosteroids Flovent HFA or short acting bronchodilators Proventil HFA . Both inhalers contain HFA 134a as aerosol propellant. Exhaled breath sampling and pulmonary function tests were performed prior to the inhaler medication dispersion immediately after inhalation then at 2 4 6 8 24 and 48 hours post administration. At baseline mean SD levels of HFA 134a in the breath were 252 156 pptv. Immediately after inhalation HFA 134a breath levels increased to 300 106 pptv and were still well above ambient levels 24 hours post administration. The calculated ratio of forced expiratory volume in 1 s over forced vital capacity FEV1 FVC did not change over time following inhaler administration. Thus breath HFA 134a levels can be used to assess inhaler medication compliance as well as be used to evaluate how effectively the medicine is delivered.

Ten healthy subjects 5 males and 5 females 25 48 years participated in this study. Any subject with a history of any chronic medical conditions such as asthma subjects with ongoing respiratory infection food allergy and eczema current smokers users of other medications that contain HFA 134 or users of any prescription medication were excluded from the study. Female subjects with pregnancy childbearing potential were excluded because there may be risks associated with asthma inhalers 16 17 . Pregnancy or child bearing potential status was requested from subjects via self report at the time of enrollment. The Institutional Review Board at the University of California Irvine approved the study and informed consent was obtained from all participants.

Study participants were randomly assigned to inhaled corticosteroid ICS Flovent HFA 220 mcg n 5 or short acting bronchodilator Albuterol Proventil HFA n 5 . Baseline exhaled breath sampling and standard lung function test were performed prior to the medication dispersion. After baseline measurements the participants inhaled two puffs of either Flovent HFA Glaxo Smith Kline or Proventil HFA Merck CO. INC using a spacer AeroChamberPlus Flow Vu Monaghan . Breath sampling and lung function test were performed immediately after inhalation 

Exhaled breath samples were collected in evacuated electro polished stainless steel canisters volume 1.9 L . The analytic system used in this study is similar to the system described in Colman et al. 2001 18 . Briefly 790 mL of the collected air sample is pre concentrated in a stainless steel loop filled with glass beads and submerged in liquid nitrogen to remove the nitrogen oxygen and argon present in the sample. The sample is re vaporized using hot water at approximately 80 C. and split into five different column detector combinations housed in three gas chromatographs GCs using UHP helium as the carrier gas 1 DB 1 column J W 60 m 0.32 mm I.D. 1 m film thickness output to a flame ionization detector FID 2 DB 5 column J W 30 m 0.25 mm I.D. 1 vim film thickness connected in series to a RESTEK 1701 column 5 m 0.25 mm I.D. 0.5 m film thickness and output to an electron capture detector ECD 3 RESTEK 1701 column 60 m 0.25 mm I.D. 0.50 m film thickness output to an ECD 4 PLOT column J W GS Alumina 30 m 0.53 mm I.D. connected in series to a DB 1 column J W 5 m 0.53 mm I.D. 1.5 m film thickness and output to an FID 5 DB 5 ms column J W 60 m 0.25 mm I.D. 0.5 m film thickness output to a quadrupole mass spectrometer detector MSD HP 5973 . The MSD is set to operate in selected ion monitoring SIM mode with one ion chosen to quantify each compound in order to achieve the maximum selectivity and to avoid potential interferences. All gas chromatographs and detectors used in this study are manufactured by Hewlett Packard. The analytical system allows for the identification and quantification of different classes of volatile organic compounds VOCs . HFA 134a levels in the breath samples were detected and quantified using the MSD 5 precision 10 accuracy . Simultaneously room air samples were also collected in the same location to quantify corresponding ambient levels of HFA 134a. HFA 134a levels are expressed as mixing ratio. The mixing ratio of HFA 134a is the ratio of the number density of HFA 134a to the total number density of air. Or in other words is the ratio of the number of molecule of HFA 134a in a unit volume to the number of molecule of air in a unit volume.

A standardized pulmonary function test was performed in order to assess lung function in all subjects at baseline and post medication administration. This test includes forced expiratory volume in 1 second FEV1 calculated ratio of forced expiratory volume in 1 second to forced vital capacity FEV1 FVC and forced expiratory flow 25 75 FEF .

Ten subjects completed the study procedure without any complications and no serious adverse events associated to the study were reported. The physical characteristics of the subjects are presented in Table 1.

They successfully detected and quantified HFA 134a in all ten participants exhaled breath at baseline before applying asthma inhalers right after inhaler administration at 2 4 6 8 and at 24 and 48 hour post typical asthma inhaler administration a useful interval in the clinical setting see . They monitored breath carbon dioxide CO2 as a reference breath gas to ensure that the gas sampled was alveolar gas. The mean standard deviation CO2 level was 4.1 0.6 of all breath samples.

Seven out of ten participants ICS subjects 1 2 and 5 Albuterol subjects 1 2 4 and 5 in showed the following trend trace levels of exhaled breath HFA 134a at baseline in the parts per trillion by volume pptv range and then significantly higher levels approximately 106 orders of magnitude in the 3 300 part per million by volume ppmv range after a typical single inhalation followed by a bi exponential decaying pattern for at least 48 hours post inhalation. At baseline mean SD levels of HFA 134a in the breath of these seven participants were 252 156 pptv and the corresponding mean ambient HFA 134a levels in the room air were 178 72 pptv. Exhaled breath HFA 134a levels went up to 3 300 ppmv right after inhalation see and then gradually decreased back to baseline levels. At 48 hr post inhaler administration mean SD levels of HFA 134a in the exhaled breath were 260 138 pptv. Corresponding HFA 134a levels in the ambient room air at 48 hr post inhaler administration were 111 23 pptv.

Three participants presented higher exhaled breath and or room HFA 134a levels either at baseline or during the 24 h time point ICS subjects 3 and 4 Albuterol subject 3 in . Precisely in inventors observed that the ambient room sample corresponding to the baseline time point for Albuterol subject 3 was particularly elevated 8320 pptv . However breath HFA 134a time trend for this subject followed the same pattern observed for the previous seven subjects with a baseline breath HFA 134a value of 274 pptv a right after medication level of 6.2 ppmv and a 48 hr post medication level of 224 pptv. The remaining two subjects ICS subjects 3 and 4 in showed particularly elevated levels of HFA 134a in the breath at baseline with 6350 and 7360 pptv respectively the corresponding room samples were elevated as well . However for these two subjects the breath HFA 134a value reached right after drug administration was consistent with the general trend of the other subjects 179 and 48 ppmv respectively as well as the 48 hour time point 287 and 351 pptv .

As shown in Table 2 at baseline mean SD of FEV1 liter FEV1 FVC ratio and FEF25 75 liter s were 3.40 0.89 and 3.46 1.02 0.84 0.05 and 0.79 0.05 3.68 1.05 and 3.15 0.42 for Flovent HFA group and for Proventil HFA group respectively. Mean SD of FEV1 and FEF25 75 percent predicted at baseline were 95 4 and 93 15 92 12 and 89 9 for Flovent HFA group and for Proventil HFA group respectively. FEV1 and FEV1 FVC did not change significantly over time for both Flovent HFA group and Proventil HFA group while FEF25 75 an index of small airways obstruction changed more than 10 for both Flovent HFA group and Proventil HFA group. The percent change of FEF25 75 from baseline is presented in .

The study describes using a novel non invasive way to evaluate inhaler use by measuring in the exhaled breath the biologically inactive aerosol propellant HFA 134a present in asthma medications. The study demonstrated that one can successfully measure propellant HFA 134a levels in the human breath as low as parts per trillion for at least 48 hours after a typical single asthma inhaler administration.

The fate of propellant HFA 134a after the sustained exposure had previously been studied and it has been reported that HFA 134a is mainly eliminated by exhalation within the first few minutes after administration 24 25 . Gunnare et al. 19 20 followed both plasma and breath HFA 134a levels from participants who were exposed in 500 ppm of HFA 134a for two hours. His study revealed that plasma HFA 134a concentration raises rapidly right after the 500 ppm of HFA 134a exposure and maintained high levels during two hours of continued exposure period. The exhaled breath HFA 134a decreased almost an order of magnitude faster than HFA 134a in plasma when exposure stopped and was not detectable the day after the exposure. The rapid elimination of HFA 134a in the breath was also proved by measuring body retention rate using 18F labeled HFA 134a 21 22 . Pike et al. 21 demonstrated that the 18F labeled HFA 134a was rapidly eliminated by ventilation during the first few minutes and the body retention of remaining 18F HFA 134a was below 10 15 at 5 10 minute from exposure from both healthy control subjects and patients with chronic airflow limitation. Furthermore these studies revealed that 18F HFA 134a was distributed throughout the body with no obvious accumulation in any specific region and was not metabolized even after repeated dosing 21 22 . The only metabolite originating from HFA 134a was trifluoroacetic acid. However trifluiriacetic acid was only detected in some urine samples at trace levels i.e. less than 0.0005 of the administered dose 23 . Harrison et al. also reported that HFA 134a levels in blood samples decreased to below 10 of the initially administered concentration and thus demonstrated that the removal of HFA 134a from the blood was rapid 24 .

Unlike previous findings the inventors have demonstrated the ability of detecting HFA 134a levels in the human breath in concentrations as low as parts per trillion. At baseline before inhaler use and at 48 hours post inhaler administration breath HFA 134a levels were similar to the room HFA 134a levels approximately 200 pptv . After two puffs of asthma inhaler administration the breath HFA 134a levels varied between 3 and 300 ppmv see . This wide range of breath HFA 134a concentrations measured right after inhalation may reflect individual differences in the ability of human beings to coordinate the complex maneuver required for successful inhalation. Additionally there may be individual subject differences in HFA 134a transport and elimination in the airway mucosa and or dynamic changes of HFA 134a elimination that occur relatively in the early phases of HFA washout.

In many previous studies investigators crucially failed to measure the ambient levels of the target VOC. The importance of this was illustrated in the present study. For all the participants the 2 hr ambient HFA 134a concentration was always high. The room HFA 134a levels measured at baseline was between 109 and 254 pptv consistent to the average level observed in the atmosphere. However the HFA 134a levels in the room at the 2 hr time point ranged between 780 and 2960 pptv. Two different factors could be contributing to this room HFA 134a level enhancement the first being the involuntary release of traces of HFA 134a inhalers in the room during the patient s drug administration. Additionally the room air sample for the 2 hr time point could be affected by the extremely elevated levels of HFA 134a that the subject was exhaling in the exam room at this time point 28000 266000 pptv and that have been exhaled when the asthma inhalers was administered 2 hours prior 3 300 ppmv .

The high levels of HFA 134a in the room samples measured for the baseline time point for Albuterol subject 3 could be the result of an unexpected HFA 134a emission in the exam room. Ambient levels decreased gradually for the subsequent time point reaching average ambient levels approximately at the 6 hr time point . Finally we note that high HFA 134a levels were measured for both breath and room samples for the baseline time point of ICS subjects 3 and 4 .

As shown in forced expiratory volume in one second FEV1 and Forced expiratory volume in one second over forced vital capacity FEV1 FVC did not change significantly over time following inhaler administration for all ten healthy control participants. However remarkably we observed a substantial effect of both Flovent HFA and Proventil HFA on FEF25 75 in these control participants. FEF25 75 is an average forced expiratory flow during the mid 25 75 portion of the forced vital capacity and the reduction in FEF25 75 indicates a possible obstructive defect in small airways. The current study demonstrated that the short acting bronchodilator Proventil HFA usage improves small airway obstruction or FEF25 75 immediately after administration while inhaled corticosteroid usage Flovent HFA shows delayed responses with an improved small airway obstruction recorded 4 8 hours after the Flovent HFA administration.

The inventors have demonstrated that 1 HFA 134a can be measured in the exhaled breath of healthy participants down to part per trillion levels and 2 the HFA may be detectable above ambient levels for up to 24 hours following an inhalation. Breath HFA 134a is an important biomarker that can be used to determine inhaler medication compliance and or as a tool to teach patients optimal ways to use the inhalers. There are currently two HFAs in use as propellants for asthma medication HFA 134a and HFA 227 and these can be distinguished using GC MS.

While the description above refers to particular embodiments of the present invention it should be readily apparent to people of ordinary skill in the art that a number of modifications may be made without departing from the spirit thereof. The presently disclosed embodiments are therefore to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive.

Various embodiments of the invention are described above in the Detailed Description. While these descriptions directly describe the above embodiments it is understood that those skilled in the art may conceive modifications and or variations to the specific embodiments shown and described herein. Any such modifications or variations that fall within the purview of this description are intended to be included therein as well. Unless specifically noted it is the intention of the inventor that the words and phrases in the specification and claims be given the ordinary and accustomed meanings to those of ordinary skill in the applicable art s .

The foregoing description of various embodiments of the invention known to the applicant at this time of filing the application has been presented and is intended for the purposes of illustration and description. The present description is not intended to be exhaustive nor limit the invention to the precise form disclosed and many modifications and variations are possible in the light of the above teachings. The embodiments described serve to explain the principles of the invention and its practical application and to enable others skilled in the art to utilize the invention in various embodiments and with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiments disclosed for carrying out the invention.

While particular embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described it will be obvious to those skilled in the art that based upon the teachings herein changes and modifications may be made without departing from this invention and its broader aspects and therefore the appended claims are to encompass within their scope all such changes and modifications as are within the true spirit and scope of this invention. Furthermore it is to be understood that the invention is solely defined by the appended claims. It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to inventions containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should typically be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should typically be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers typically means at least two recitations or two or more recitations .

