---

title: Recording system having information processing device and peripheral devices
abstract: A non-transitory computer readable storage medium stores a set of program instructions executed by an information processing device. The program instructions, when executed by the information processing device, causes the information processing device to perform a data listing to display a list of first identifiers and second identifiers on the display unit in a manner selectable through the operation unit, when the operation unit receives a user's operation to select a combination of a first device and a second device among the plurality of devices. The program instructions include transmitting a first recording instruction information to the second device via the communication unit when the operation unit receives a user's operation to select one first identifier. The program instructions include transmitting a second recording instruction information to the second device via the communication unit when the operation unit receives a user's operation to select one second identifier.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09454334&OS=09454334&RS=09454334
owner: Brother Kogyo Kabushiki Kaisha
number: 09454334
owner_city: Nagoya-shi, Aichi-ken
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20150430
---
This application claims priority from Japanese Patent Application No. 2014 093317 filed Apr. 30 2014. The entire content of the priority application is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to a system in which an information processing device is capable of instructing another device to perform a recording process.

One technology discloses a system in which a plurality of peripheral devices are operated in combination with one another.

Such a system is conceivable in which data is downloaded from a server device that provides a storage service and an image recording device is instructed to perform a recording process on the downloaded data for recording an image represented by the data on a recording medium.

However many server devices can also store data of which data formats are not supported by the image recording device. Therefore in a case where the server device and the image recording device cooperate with each other in the conceivable system it is necessary to allow only the data in a format for example a JPEG format supported by the image recording device to be downloaded from the server device. As a result data that can be recorded by the image recording device is limited to a very small part of a large variety of data stored in the server device.

One object of the present invention is to provide a system in which an information processing device is capable of instructing a device to perform a recording process on data in various formats stored in another device.

Another object of the present invention is to provide a non transitory computer readable storage medium storing program instructions that can be installed in an information processing device and that enables the information processing device to instruct a device to perform a recording process on data in various formats stored in another device.

According to one aspect a non transitory computer readable storage medium stores a set of program instructions executed by an information processing device. The information processing device includes a display unit an operation unit and a communication unit. The display unit is configured to display information. The operation unit is configured to receive a user s operation. The communication unit is configured to communicate with a plurality of devices. The plurality of devices includes a first device and a second device. The first device is configured to store data in a plurality of different formats including data in a first format and data in a second format that is convertible to the first format. Each first identifier identifies data in the first format stored in the first device and each second identifier identifies data in the second format stored in the first device. The second device is configured to record an image indicated by data in the first format on a recording medium. The program instructions when executed by the information processing device cause the information processing device to perform a data listing. The data listing displays a list of first identifiers and second identifiers on the display unit in a manner selectable through the operation unit when the operation unit receives a user s operation to select a combination of the first device and the second device. The program instructions when executed by the information processing device cause the information processing device to perform transmitting a first recording instruction information to the second device via the communication unit when the operation unit receives a user s operation to select one first identifier. The first recording instruction information instructs the second device to receive data in the first format identified by the selected first identifier and record an image indicated by the received data. The program instructions when executed by the information processing device also causes the information processing device to perform transmitting a second recording instruction information to the second device via the communication unit when the operation unit receives a user s operation to select one second identifier the second recording instruction information instructing the second device to record an image indicated by data identified by the selected second identifier such that the second device records the image indicated by format converted data that is obtained by converting the data identified by the selected second identifier from the second format to the first format.

According to another aspect a recording system includes an information processing device and a plurality of devices. The information processing device includes a display unit configured to display information an operation unit configured to receive a user s operation a communication unit configured to communicate with the plurality of devices and a control unit. The control unit is configured to perform a data listing to display a list of first identifiers and second identifiers on the display unit in a manner selectable through the operation unit when the operation unit receives a user s operation to select a combination of a first device and a second device among the plurality of devices. The first device is configured to store data in a plurality of different formats including data in a first format and data in a second format that is convertible to the first format. Each first identifier identifies data in the first format stored in the first device and each second identifier identifies data in the second format stored in the second device. The second device is configured to record an image indicated by data in the first format on a recording medium. The control unit is configured to transmit a first recording instruction information to the second device via the communication unit when the operation unit receives a user s operation to select one first identifier. The first recording instruction information instructs the second device to receive data in the first format identified by the selected first identifier and record an image indicated by the received data. The control unit is also configured to transmit a second recording instruction information to the second device via the communication unit when the operation unit receives a user s operation to select one second identifier. The second recording instruction information instructs the second device to record an image indicated by data identified by the selected second identifier such that the second device records the image indicated by the format converted data that is obtained by converting the data identified by the selected second identifier from the second format to the first format

A recording system according to a first embodiment will be described while referring to the accompanying drawings wherein like parts and components are designated by the same reference numerals to avoid duplicating description.

In the example of the server devices and are connected to the Internet . The wireless LAN is connected to the Internet through a router not illustrated . The multifunction devices A and B and the mobile terminal belong to the wireless LAN . In other words each of the multifunction devices A and B and the mobile terminal is set up for belonging to the wireless LAN and is capable of communicating with another device included in the wireless LAN . More specifically an SSID Service Set Identifier the same as that of an access point A of the wireless LAN is set to the multifunction devices A and B and the mobile terminal and a network address the same as that allocated to the wireless LAN is given to the multifunction devices A and B and the mobile terminal wherein the network address is an address specified by a subnet mask within an IP address.

The mobile terminal belonging to the wireless LAN can communicate through the access point A with the multifunction devices A and B which also belong to the wireless LAN . The mobile terminal can also wirelessly communicate with the server devices and through the access point A the router not illustrated and the Internet . Examples of the wireless communication between the mobile terminal and another communication device through the access point A is not limited to a case where the communication is wirelessly performed over the entire length of the communication path between the mobile terminal and the other communicating device. It can be said that the mobile terminal wirelessly transmits and receives information or data to and from another device through the access point A when at least the communication path between the mobile terminal and the access point A is wireless. It can also be said that the multifunction devices wirelessly transmits and receives information or data to and from another device through the access point A when at least the communication path between the multifunction devices and the access point A is wireless.

As illustrated in the multifunction device mainly includes a printer unit a scanner unit a display unit an operation unit a communication unit a CPU a storage unit and a communication bus . The components constituting the multifunction device are connected to one another via the communication bus . The multifunction device is an example of a second device and a recording device. As illustrated in the device name of the multifunction device A is MFC A and the device name of the multifunction device B is MFC B . The device names are examples of second device identifiers and recording device identifiers identifying the multifunction devices A and B. Examples of the second device identifier are not limited to the device name but further include location information representing locations of the multifunction devices A and B.

The printer unit performs a recording process for recording an image represented by first format data on a recording sheet. The recording sheet is an example of a recording medium. Examples of the recording method employed by the printer unit include a well known method such as an inkjet method and an electrophotographic method but are not limited to those specific examples. The scanner unit performs a scanning process for reading out an image recorded on a recording sheet to generate image data. The multifunction device may further include a facsimile function for performing facsimile transmission reception and a copying function for reading out an image recorded on the recording sheet and recording the read out image on another recording sheet.

In the embodiment the printer unit in the multifunction device A can perform a recording process on JPG format data JPG Joint Photographic Experts Group while the printer unit of the multifunction device B can perform a recording process on BMP Bitmap format data. Namely the multifunction devices are different from one another in data formats on which the multifunction devices can perform the recording process. That is data formats compatible with the recording process varies among the multifunction devices A and B. The JPG format is an example of a fifth format and the BMP format is an example of a sixth format. In addition the fifth format and the sixth format are collectively referred to as a first format. In other words the first format can be classified into the fifth and sixth formats. It will be appreciated that the examples of the first format the fifth format and the sixth format are not limited to the above described specific examples.

The display unit includes a display screen for displaying various kinds of information. Examples of the display unit include an LCD Liquid Crystal Display and an OELD Organic Electro Luminescence Display but are not limited to the specific examples.

The operation unit receives a user s operation for selecting an object displayed on the display screen of the display unit . More specifically the operation unit includes push buttons for example and outputs to the CPU various operation signals in correspondence with the user s pushed buttons. The operation unit may include a membrane shaped touch sensor over the display screen of the display unit . Namely the display unit may also serve as a touch panel display. The touch sensor may be of a well known type such as a capacitive type or a resistive film type.

In the description an object denotes an image which is selectable by the user s operation on the operation unit . One example of an object is an array of characters displayed on the display unit . One of the objects may be highlighted by pushing a direction key in the operation unit . The highlighted object is selected by pushing a decision button in the operation unit . In a case where the operation unit is a touch panel the objects may be icons buttons or links displayed on the display unit . One of the objects that is displayed at a user s touched position is selected.

The communication unit is an interface for wirelessly communicating with an external device. More specifically the communication unit can wirelessly communicate with the mobile terminal through the access point A using an indirect wireless communication system. The communication unit can wirelessly communicate with the server devices and through the access point A and the router not illustrated . Examples of the communication procedure employed by the communication unit include Wi Fi registered trade mark of Wi Fi Alliance but are not limited to the specific example.

The CPU Central Processing Unit controls overall operations of the multifunction device . The CPU acquires various programs described later from the storage unit and executes the programs on the basis of various kinds of information that are outputted from the operation unit and that are acquired through the communication unit from the mobile terminal and the server devices and . Namely the CPU and the storage unit are examples of a control unit.

The storage unit includes a program storage area A and a data storage area B. The program storage area A stores an OS Operating System and a control program . The control program may be a single program or a set of plural programs. The data storage area B stores data and information required by the CPU perform the control program .

In the specification data and information have common characteristics in that the data and the information are bits or bit columns which can be processed by a computer. The data denotes bits or bit columns that a computer can be process without considering a meaning or content indicated by each bit. On the contrary operation of a computer varies depending on a meaning or content indicated by each bit contained in the information . The instruction is a control signal for prompting a destination device to perform the next operation. The instruction may contain information or the instruction itself may have the same characteristics as information.

Even if formats of the data and the information for example a text format a binary format and a flag format are changed in respective computers the data and the information are regarded by the respective computers as the same data and the same information provided that the data and the information are recognized by the computers as keeping the same meaning or content. For example information representing two is represented by 0x32 in ASCII code in a text format in one computer but is represented by 10 in binary notation in a binary format in another computer.

However data and information are not strictly distinguished from each other but may be treated in exceptional manners. For example data may be temporarily processed as information and information may be temporarily processed as data . In addition data held in a computer may be processed as information in anther computer. Information may be extracted from among data and data may be extracted among information .

Example of the storage unit include a RAM Random Access Memory a ROM Read Only Memory an EEPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory an HDD Hard Disk Drive a buffer in the CPU and a combination of the above listed devices.

The storage unit may be a computer readable storage medium. The computer readable storage medium is a non transitory medium. Examples of the non transitory medium include a recording medium such as a CD ROM and a DVD ROM as well as the above described examples of the storage unit . The non transitory medium is also a tangible medium. Electrical signals carrying thereon a program downloaded from a server located on the Internet do not belong to a computer readable storage medium although the electrical signal are a computer readable signal medium which is a kind of computer readable medium.

The OS is a basic program providing API Application Programming Interface for controlling the printer unit the scanner unit the display unit the operation unit and the communication unit which are hardware components constituting the multifunction device . When executing the control program the CPU controls the hardware components by calling the API provided by the OS .

As illustrated in the mobile terminal mainly includes a display unit an operation unit a communication unit a CPU a storage unit and a communication bus . The display unit the operation unit the communication unit the CPU the storage unit and the communication bus included in the mobile terminal are the same as the display unit the operation unit the communication unit the CPU the storage unit and the communication bus included in the multifunction device respectively. Therefore explanation of these devises and units will be omitted.

The storage unit has a program storage area A and a data storage area B. The program storage area A of the storage unit stores an OS and a control program . When executing the control program the CPU controls the hardware components by calling the API provided by the OS . The communication unit can wirelessly communicate with the multifunction devices A and B and the server devices and through the wireless LAN . Example of the mobile terminal includes a smart phone a mobile phone and a tablet terminal. The mobile terminal is an example of the information processing device. It is noted however that examples of the information processing device are not limited to the mobile terminal but may include a PC Personal Computer .

The CPU in the mobile terminal performs processes illustrated in by executing the control program . In addition the CPU performs a conversion process hereinafter referred to as in mobile conversion for converting format of data from a third format to the first format by executing the control program . Namely the control program has the function for converting data from the third format to the first format. The control program according to the embodiment can convert PDF format data PDF Portable Document Format into a JPG format or a BMP format. Incidentally the data acquired by converting the format of the original data as described above will be referred to as a converted data or format converted data hereinafter. The PDF format is an example of the third format. Incidentally the third format and later described fourth format are collectively referred to as a second format. In other words the second format can be classified into the third and fourth formats.

Incidentally converting format of data is a process of changing for example a data structure of target data without substantially changing an image indicated by the target data. Thus during the format conversion an image represented by the target data may be slightly deteriorated or improved in its image quality or color hereinafter referred to as image quality or the like . The data storage area B stores one or more groups of cooperative ID a device name of an input device and a device name of an output device that are registered in a registration process to be described later with reference to .

Each of the server devices and stores plural data in a large variety of formats. The server devices and are for example storage servers. The server devices and can transmit stored data data ID of the data and location information representing location of the data. Examples of the data ID include a file name but are not limited to the specific example. The data ID is an example of the data identifier the first identifier and the second identifier. The server devices and are examples of the first device and the storing device. As illustrated in the device name of the server device is a server A the device name of the server device is a server B . Examples of the first device identifier are not limited to the device name but further include location information representing locations of the multifunction devices A and B. Examples of the location information include URL Uniform Resource Locator format information but are not limited to the URL. The first device identifier and the second device identifier are examples of a storing device identifier and a recording device identifier. Namely the device names are examples of the storing device identifiers which identify the server devices and .

The server device performs a conversion process for converting fourth format data into the first format hereinafter referred to as in server conversion . The server device according to the embodiment converts DXF format data DXF Drawing Exchange Format into a JPG format or a BMP format. More specifically when receiving conversion instruction information from the mobile terminal the server device receives DXF format data from the server devices or converts the received data from the DXF format to the JPG format or the BMP format and transmits to the mobile terminal the converted data or location information indicating where the converted data is located in the server device . The DXF format is an example of the fourth format.

Operations of the recording system will be described with reference to . An image recording process illustrated in is a process for recording an image on a recording sheet. The recording process in is performed by the CPU in the mobile terminal executing the control program . During the recording process the CPU in the mobile terminal controls an input device selected from among the server devices and and an output device selected from among the multifunction devices A and B to cooperate with each other. More specifically data is selected by a user of the mobile terminal from among the data stored in the user s selected input device server device or . The selected data is converted into the first format in the mobile terminal or the server device . A recording process is then performed by the multifunction device A or B on the converted first format data. Incidentally the input device is an example of the first device and the output device is an example of the second device.

When the operation unit of the mobile terminal receives a user s tapping operation or touching operation on an image recording process button in a menu screen not illustrated the CPU first performs a cooperative device ID listing process S . The cooperative device ID listing process is a process for allowing the user of the mobile terminal to select a combination of the input device and the output device that are desired to cooperate with each other. Next the cooperative device ID listing process will be described with reference to .

In S the CPU acquires information on the first format that is compatible with the recording process performed by the printer units of the multifunction devices A and B. In S the CPU acquires information on the third format that can be converted into the first format through in mobile conversion. In S the control program acquires information on the fourth format that can be converted into the first format through in server conversion. The formats whose information is acquired in steps S to S will be referred to as supported formats hereinafter. In the embodiment the supported formats are a JPG format a BMP format a PDF format and a DXF format.

As described above the recording system in the embodiment complies with the JPG format first and fifth formats the BMP format first and sixth formats the PDF format second and third formats and the DXF format second and fourth formats . Specifically the JPG format is supported by the multifunction device A. That is the JPG format is compatible with the recording process performed by the printer unit of the multifunction device A. In other words the multifunction device A can record images represented by data in the JPG format. The BMP format is supported by the multifunction device B. That is the BMP format is compatible with the recording process performed by the printer unit of the multifunction device B. In other words the multifunction device B can record images represented by data in the BMP format. The PDF format is supported by the mobile device control program i.e. the mobile device control program can convert data from the PDF format to the BMP or JPG format. The DXF format is supported by the server device i.e. the server device can convert data from the DXF format to the BMP or JPG format.

More specifically in S the CPU receives the format information representing the first format from the multifunction devices A and B through the communication unit . In S the CPU receives the format information representing the fourth format from the server device through the communication unit . Alternatively the CPU may receive the format information from each device through the communication unit in the later described registration process refer to and store the format information in the data storage area B. In such a case in S and S the CPU acquires information of the supported formats from the format information stored in the data storage area B.

Next in S the CPU determines whether the mobile terminal is capable of communicating with the server device . For example the CPU uses a ping message. Namely the CPU transmits an echo request packet to the server device through the communication unit . The CPU determines that the mobile terminal is able to communicate with the server device when the CPU receives an echo reply packet from the server device through the communication unit . The CPU determines that the mobile terminal is not able to communicate with the server device when the CPU does not receive an echo reply packet from the server device through the communication unit within a predetermined time. Examples of the message that the CPU transmits to the server device is not limited to the ping message but other arbitrary messages may be used.

As to another example the CPU determines that the mobile terminal is not able to communicate with the server device when the communication unit is not connected to the Internet . For example the CPU determines that the communication unit is not connected to the Internet when the connection between the OS of the mobile terminal and the Wi Fi or a mobile communication network not illustrated is being set to OFF. Alternatively the CPU may determine that the communication unit is not connected to the Internet when the communication unit is connected to the access point A but the wireless LAN is not connected to the Internet . It is noted that the method employed in S to determine whether the mobile terminal is capable of communicating with the server device is not limited to the above described examples.

When determining that the mobile terminal is able to communicate with the server device Yes in S the CPU displays on the display unit a cooperative operation selection screen as illustrated in S . On the other hand when determining that the mobile terminal is not able to communicate with the server device No in S the CPU displays on the display unit the cooperative operation selection screen as illustrated in S . The processes of steps S and S are examples of listing cooperative device identifiers.

The cooperative operation selection screen illustrated in includes a newly addition button and one or more cooperative operation selection buttons. Each cooperative operation selection button indicates a cooperative device ID identifying a combination of an input device and an output device device names of the input device and the output device corresponding to the cooperative device ID and data formats compatible with a recording process performed by the combination of the input device and the output device. The cooperative device ID is an example of the cooperative device identifier. The cooperative device ID the device name of the input device and the device name of the output device are correlated and stored in the data storage area B through a registration process which will be described later with reference to .

In the state of the cooperative operation selection button with the cooperative device ID 001 indicates that a recording process can be performed on JPG format data PDF format data and DXF format data by a combination of the server device having a device name server A input device and the multifunction device A having a device name MFC A output device . The cooperative operation selection button with the cooperative device ID 002 indicates that a recording process can be performed on BMP format data PDF format data and DXF format data by a combination of the server device having a device name server B input device and the multifunction device B having a device name MFC B output device . Namely each cooperative device selection button illustrated in indicates that a recording process can be performed on first format data third format data and fourth format data DXF .

The cooperative operation selection screen illustrated in is different from the cooperative operation selection screen illustrated in in the following two points first among the data formats displayed on each cooperative operation selection button illustrated in the data format DXF is displayed in a different display form than the other data formats second the cooperative operation selection screen illustrated in further includes a recovery process button. In this example the data format DXF is displayed in a different display form the other data formats as follows the character size of DXF is smaller than those of PDF BMP and JPG and the character color of DXF is paler than those of PDF BMP and JPG . However the display form which is designed in the different manner from that for the other formats is not particularly limited to the specific example. For example the font of DXF may be different from those of PDF BMP and JPG .

In the cooperative operation selection button with the cooperative device ID 001 indicates that a recording process can be performed on JPG format data and PDF format data and a recording process cannot be performed on DXF format data. The cooperative operation selection button with the cooperative device ID 002 indicates that a recording process can be performed on BMP format data and PDF format data but cannot be performed on DXF format data. Namely each cooperative operation selection button illustrated in indicates that a recording process can be performed on first format and third format data but cannot be performed on fourth format data. In the cooperative operation selection screen of the DXF may be displayed in other various display manners so that the DXF will be perceived by a user differently from the other data formats.

The recovery process button is a button requesting execution of a recovery process for recovering communication with the server device . The recovery process button is an example of a selection option. When the operation unit receives the user s tapping operation on the recovery button Yes in S the CPU performs the recovery process S . For example in the recovery process the CPU temporarily ends the connection between the communication unit and the access point A and tries to establish the connection to the server device again. Or the control program may try to connect the mobile terminal to another server device not illustrated that can serve as a substitute of the server device .

Otherwise in the recovery process the CPU may connect the communication unit to an access point not illustrated different from the access point A. Alternatively the CPU may display on the display unit a list of access points to which the communication unit can be connected so that the user can select an access point to which the user desires to have the communication unit to connect. When connection of the OS to the Wi Fi or a mobile communication network not illustrated is being set to OFF the CPU may switch the setting of connection to ON or may inform the user that the setting of connection should be switched to ON. However the recovery process is not particularly limited to the above described example.

When the connection of the mobile terminal to the server device is recovered by the recovery process Yes in S the CPU displays the cooperative device selection screen illustrated in on the display unit S . Otherwise when connection of mobile terminal to the server device is not recovered even by performing the recovery process No in S the CPU displays the cooperative operation selection screen illustrated in on the display unit again S . For example the CPU can determine whether the connection of the mobile terminal to the server device is recovered through several methods including determining whether the setting of connection to the Wi Fi or the mobile communication network not illustrated has been turned ON determining whether the communication unit has been connected to the access point A or another access point not illustrated and determining whether a reply message has been received in response to a ping message or another message transmitted to the server device .

Returning to when the operation unit receives the user s tapping touch operation on one of the cooperative operation selection buttons Yes in S the CPU displays a data selection screen on the display unit S . illustrates an example of the data selection screen that is displayed when the user taps on the cooperative operation selection button with the cooperative device ID 001 on the cooperative operation selection screen illustrated in . illustrates an example of the data selection screen which is displayed when the user taps on the cooperative operation selection button with the cooperative device ID 001 the cooperative operation selection screen illustrated in . The step S is an example of listing the first identifier and the second identifier.

The data selection screen illustrated in each of includes one or more data selection buttons. The data selection buttons show data IDs identifying data stored in the server device server A . In S in order to display data selection screen the CPU receives from the server device through the communication unit data IDs to be displayed on the data selection button and location information of the data identified by the data ID. The location information indicates where data identified by the data ID is stored in the server device . Examples of the data ID include a file name. However the data ID is not particularly limited to the specific example. The data ID is an example of the first identifier and the second identifier. In the data selection screen the data selection buttons are displayed in different forms depending on whether the data selection buttons are selectable or non selectable. Specifically as illustrated in the selectable data selection buttons are designed as active buttons bordered by solid lines and the non selectable data selection buttons are designed as non active buttons bordered by dashed lines. For example the difference in display forms may be the same as that of the cooperative operation selection screen.

Specifically in the data selection buttons for the file names estimate.pdf design.dxf and picture.jpg are selectable and the data selection button for the file name price list.xls is non selectable. Namely in the data selection screen illustrated in the data selection button for data IDs of the first format data the third format data and the fourth format data is selectable and the data selection button for data IDs of other format data are non selectable. Accordingly the user can easily recognize which data is compatible with the recording process

In the data selection buttons for the file names estimate.pdf and picture.jpg are selectable and the data selection buttons for the file names design.dxf and price list.xls are non selectable. Namely in the data selection screen illustrated in the data selection buttons for data IDs of the first format data and the third format data is selectable and the data selection button where data IDs of other format data are indicated is non selectable.

Next when the operation unit receives the user s tapping operation on one of the data selection buttons Yes in S the CPU acquires from the server device through the communication unit data identified by the data ID on the data selection button hereinafter referred to as selected data S . In S the CPU locates the user s selected data referring to the location information that has been received from the server device in S. That is the CPU specifies the location of the user s selected data.

If the selected data is formatted in the first format Yes in S the CPU transmits recording instruction information including the selected data received in step S to the multifunction device A through the communication unit S . Alternatively in S the CPU may transmit recording instruction information including the location information of the selected data in the server device to the multifunction device A through the communication unit . In this case the process of step S is omitted. The recording instruction information instructs the multifunction device A to receive the selected data referring to the location information and perform the recording process on the selected data.

On the other hand if the selected data is in the third format No in S and Yes in S the CPU converts the selected data from the third format to the first format through in mobile conversion S . Therefore in a case where for example estimate.pdf is selected on the data selection screen the data is converted by the CPU from the PDF format to the JPG format. Next the CPU transmits recording instruction information including the selected data that has been converted into the first format in S to the multifunction device A through the communication unit S .

If the selected data is in the fourth format No in S and No in S the CPU instructs the server device to convert the selected data from the fourth format to the first format through in server conversion S . Therefore in a case where for example design.dxf is selected on the data selection screen the data is converted by the server device from the DXF format to the JPG format.

More specifically in S the CPU transmits conversion instruction information including fourth format selected data through the communication unit to the server device . The conversion instruction information is for instructing the server device to receive the selected data and convert the selected data from the fourth format to the first format. Receiving the conversion instruction information the server device converts the selected data included in the conversion instruction information from the fourth format to the first format and transmits the converted data back to the mobile terminal .

As another example in S the CPU may transmit conversion instruction information including location information of the fourth format selected data through the communication unit to the server device . In this case the process of step S is omitted. Receiving the conversion instruction information the server device acquires from the server device the selected data by using the location information and converts the acquired data from the fourth format to the first format. Next the server device transmits the converted data to the mobile terminal . In place of transmitting the converted data itself to the mobile terminal the server device may transmit to the mobile terminal location information indicating where the converted data is located in the server device .

When receiving the first format converted data from the server device through the communication unit the CPU transmits recording instruction information including the first format converted data to the multifunction device through the communication unit S . When receiving the location information of the first format converted data from the server device through the communication unit the CPU transmits recording instruction information including the location information to the multifunction device through the communication unit S .

When receiving the recording instruction information including the first format data from the mobile terminal through the communication unit the CPU control program of the multifunction device A instructs the printer unit to perform a recording process for recording an image represented by the first format data on a recording sheet. When receiving recording instruction information including location information of the first format data from the mobile terminal through the communication unit the CPU control program employs the location information to receive the first format data from the server device or through the communication unit and instructs the printer unit to perform a recording process for recording an image represented by the selected first format data on a recording sheet.

Next will be described the registration process with referred to . The registration process is performed for allowing the user of the mobile terminal to newly select his her desired combination of an input device and an output device and storing the device names of the selected input and output devices and a cooperative device ID for the newly selected combination in the data storage area B. For example when the operation unit recognizes a user s tapping operation on the newly addition button on the cooperative operation selection screen the CPU of the mobile terminal performs the registration process as illustrated in .

First the CPU displays a cooperative device selection screen on the display unit S . illustrates an example of the cooperative device selection screen. The cooperative device selection screen illustrated in includes a text box where a cooperative device ID is to be inputted a addition of input device button a addition of output device button and a registration button. The cooperative device ID may be automatically allocated by the CPU and the cooperative device ID that is allocated by the control program can be changed by the user.

When the operation unit receives the user s tapping operation on the addition of input device button S addition of input device the CPU displays an input device selection screen on the display unit S . illustrates an example of the input device selection screen. The input device selection screen illustrated in includes one or more input device selection buttons. Among plural devices that are capable of communicating with the communication unit device names of devices that can serve as input devices are listed as candidates for input devices on the input device selection buttons. The candidate for the input device is one of the server devices and that are able to communicate with the communication unit and store data in a variety of different formats. The process of step S is an example of displaying a list of the storing device identifier.

Next when the operation unit recognizes the user s tapping operation on some input device selection button Yes in S the CPU stores in the data storage area B the device name indicated on the input device selection button S and displays the cooperative device selection screen on the display unit again S . As illustrated in after the input device is selected the cooperative device selection screen includes a button where the device name of the selected input device is displayed instead of addition of input device button. In the embodiment the following operations are based on the case where the server A is selected as an input device.

When the operation unit recognizes the user s tapping operation on the addition of output device button S addition of output device the CPU displays an output device selection screen on the display unit S . illustrates an example of the output device selection screen. The output device selection screen illustrated in includes one or more output device selection buttons. Among the plural devices which are able to communicate with the communication unit device names of those devices that can serve as output devices are listed as candidates for the output device on the output device selection buttons. The candidate for the output device is one of the multifunction devices that are able to communicate with the communication unit and that can record image represented by data in the first format. The process of step S is an example of display a list of the recording device identifiers.

Each output device selection button indicates not only the device name of an output device candidate but also the data formats that are compatible with a recording process on the output device candidate. In the JPG format the PDF format and the DXF format are displayed on the output device selection button for the device name MFC A . The BMP format the PDF format and the DXF format are displayed on the output device selection button for the device name MPC B . Namely the output device selection button for each output device candidate indicates that the output device candidate can perform a recording process on the second format data and the fifth format data or the sixth format data.

When the operation unit receives the user s tapping operation on some output device selection button Yes in S the CPU stores the device name indicated on the output device selection button in the data storage area B S and displays the cooperative device selection screen on the display unit again S . As illustrated in after the output device is selected the cooperative device selection screen displays a button where the name of the selected output device is displayed instead of the addition of output device button. In the embodiment the following operations will be described on the basis of a case where the MFC B is selected.

When the operation unit recognizes the user s tapping operation on the registration button S registration button the CPU registers and stores in the data storage area B the device name of the input device stored in S the device name of the output device stored in S and the cooperative device ID displayed on the cooperative device selection screen S in correlation with one another. Next the CPU ends the registration process. Namely in the embodiment the cooperative device ID 003 the device name server A for the input device and the device name MFC B for the output device are newly stored in the data storage area B in correlation with one another. Incidentally the registration button may be configured not to be selectable until both of the input device and the output device are selected.

According to the above described embodiment the second format selected data is converted into the first format and after that the multifunction device A performs the recording process on the first format selected data. Accordingly data in many types of formats can be made compatible with the recording process performed by the multifunction device A. In addition because the conversion process can be performed in the server device as well as the mobile terminal data in more types of formats can be made compatible with the recording process performed by the multifunction device A. Moreover even when the mobile terminal cannot access the server device the communication can be recovered by performing the recovery process. After the recovery of the communication is performed data in much more types of formats is made compatible with the recording process performed by the multifunction device A.

In addition according to the above described embodiment in the data selection screen only data IDs corresponding to the formats compatible with the recording process are displayed in a selectable manner. As a result a user can easily recognize data on which a recording process can be performed. Moreover in the cooperative operation selection screen and the data selection screen the data formats compatible with the recording process and data formats incompatible with the recording process due to unavailability of the server device are displayed in manners different from data formats compatible with the recording process. As a result a user can easily recognize data formats on which a recording process can be performed.

The displaying form of the data selection buttons in the data selection screen is not limited to the examples of . For example only the data selection buttons indicating data IDs of the first format data and the second format data may be displayed in the data selection screen. In this case the data selection button indicating the file name price list.xls is omitted from the data selection screen illustrated in . In addition the data selection buttons indicating file names design.dxf and price list.xls are omitted from the data selection screen illustrated in . Data formats may be displayed similarly on the cooperative operation selection screen. That is the indication of DXF may be omitted from the cooperative operation selection screen illustrated in .

According to the above described embodiment in a case where the fourth format selected data is transmitted from the server device to the server device the server device converts the selected data to the first format. After that the server device may transmit the converted data directly to the multifunction device A. As a result in comparison with a case where the mobile terminal relays the selected data between the server devices and and the multifunction device A the load on the communication network can be reduced and the processing time of the image recording process can be decreased.

Through the registration process a user s desired combination of an input device and an output device can be generated. On the output device selection screen of data formats compatible with a recording process are indicated on each output device selection button. Accordingly a user can easily select an output device that can perform a recording process on data in his her desired format.

In addition in the multifunction device and the mobile terminal the CPU executes various programs stored in the program storage area A in the storage unit and the CPU executes various programs stored in the program storage area A of the storage unit . However hardware components such as ICs integrated circuits may be used to execute at least part of the processes that are executed by the CPUs in the embodiment.

The present invention may be realized by a program. The program may be provided in a manner where the program is stored in a non transitory recording medium and controlling the multifunction devices and the mobile terminal to perform processes. Examples of the non transitory recording medium include a CD ROM a DVD ROM and a storage unit installed in a server device that can be connected to the multifunction devices and the mobile terminal via a communication network. The program may be transmitted from the storage unit in the server device as information or signals representing the program via the communication network such as the Internet .

While the description has been made in detail with reference to specific embodiments thereof it would be apparent to those skilled in the art that various changes and modifications may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the above described embodiments.

