---

title: Circuit breaker
abstract: A circuit breaker, including a circuit breaker body, a handle, a bottom box, and a bearing plate. The circuit breaker body includes an upper cover, and a notch groove is formed on the upper cover. Two ends of the notch groove are positioned in the on/off position corresponding to the circuit breaker. The handle extends out of the notch groove. A circuit breaker actuating mechanism, a wire inlet end, and a wire outlet end are arranged on the bottom box. The circuit breaker actuating mechanism is triggered by the handle. The bearing plate is arranged between the upper cover and the bottom box and combined with an electrical operating mechanism. The handle is switched in the on/off state during the operation of the electrical operating mechanism under the control of an automatic closing control unit.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09530577&OS=09530577&RS=09530577
owner: 
number: 09530577
owner_city: Wuhan
owner_country: CN
publication_date: 20150609
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 433 515 filed on Mar. 29 2012 now pending which is a continuation in part of International Patent Application No. PCT CN2010 000831 with an international filing date of Jun. 11 2010 designating the United States now pending and further claims priority benefits to Chinese Patent Application No. 200910179587.6 filed Sep. 29 2009 and to Chinese Patent Application No. 200910179558.X filed Sep. 29 2009. The contents of all of the aforementioned applications including any intervening amendments thereto are incorporated herein by reference. Inquiries from the public to applicants concerning this document or the related applications should be directed to Matthias Scholl P. C. Attn. Dr. Matthias Scholl Esq. 245 First Street 18Floor Cambridge Mass. 02142.

The invention relates to a circuit breaker and more particularly to a built in circuit breaker capable of realizing automatic closing function and an intelligent circuit breaker with an automatic closing control unit.

As to the electric power department a circuit breaker is an essential device for ensuring the electricity safety and circuit switching. With the launch of state to the smart grid plan developing towards the intelligent circuit breaker is a very important direction.

As shown in an example of a circuit breaker in the prior art which is called a circuit breaker body in the invention. The circuit breaker can be a three phase or a single phase circuit breaker and can also be an ordinary miniature circuit breaker or a big switch. Each circuit breaker includes a box body the box body includes an upper cover and a bottom box wherein a notch groove is formed on the upper cover and two ends of the notch groove are positioned in the on off position correspondingly to the circuit breaker a handle extends out of the notch groove a circuit breaker actuating mechanism a wire inlet end and a wire outlet end are arranged on the bottom box and the circuit breaker actuating mechanism is triggered through the handle the circuit breaker actuating mechanism further includes a linkage component connected with the handle a movable contact arm is hinged at the lower end of a linkage rod of the linkage component when the linkage component rotates under the action of the handle the movable contact arm is driven to rotate a moving contact on the movable contact arm is in contact with a stationary contact on a static contact piece and the static contact piece is connected with the wire outlet end on the bottom box so that the purpose of transmitting current out is achieved.

In view of the above defects the creator of the invention finally invents the circuit breaker after long time of research and practice.

In view of the above described problems it is one objective of the invention to provide a built in circuit breaker with automatic closing function.

To achieve the above objective in accordance with one embodiment of the invention there is provided a built in circuit breaker with automatic closing function comprising a circuit breaker body the circuit breaker body comprising an upper cover and a bottom box wherein a notch groove is formed on the upper cover and two ends of the notch groove are positioned in the on off position correspondingly to the circuit breaker a handle extends out of the notch groove a circuit breaker actuating mechanism a wire inlet end and a wire outlet end are arranged on the bottom box and the circuit breaker actuating mechanism is triggered through the handle a bearing plate is arranged between the upper cover and the bottom box and combined with an electrical operating mechanism the electrical operating mechanism is provided with an execution end connected with the handle and the handle is switched in the on off state during the operation of the electrical operating mechanism under the control of an automatic closing control unit.

Based on different working principles the electrical operating mechanism can be classified into three categories. One is that the electrical operating mechanism comprises a pinion and rack mechanism and a shifting part the shifting part is connected with the handle a motor is arranged in a bottom box and the pinion and rack mechanism transforms the rotation of the motor into reciprocating action of the shifting part so that the circuit breaker actuating mechanism is triggered by the handle to realize the on off of the circuit breaker.

Optionally the electrical operating mechanism comprises a translational mechanism and a shifting part the shifting part is connected with the handle the translational mechanism drives the shifting part to make reciprocating motion so that the circuit breaker actuating mechanism is triggered by the handle to realize the on off of the circuit breaker.

Further optionally the electrical operating mechanism comprises a crank part and a shifting part and the shifting part is connected with the handle a motor is arranged in the bottom box and the rotation of the motor is transformed into reciprocating action of the shifting part through the crank part under the control of the automatic closing control unit so that the handle is switched in the on off state.

To have protection function at short circuit or abnormal electricity conditions the automatic closing control unit further comprises 

To prevent the circuit breaker from switching on automatically under the condition without eliminating the abnormal conditions the automatic closing control unit further comprises a self locking control subunit the self locking control subunit is connected with the motor motion control subunit and receives a self locking control signal indicating the short circuit conditions output by the short circuit detection subunit so that the motor motion control subunit enables the motor does not to generate action.

To achieve the remote control for example for prepayment the automatic closing control unit further comprises an external control unit the external control unit is connected with the tripping subunit and the motor motion control subunit respectively and receives an external control signal so as to control the tripping device and the motor.

The short circuit detection circuit comprises at least a short circuit detection element arranged for at least one phase line and connected with a decision element and the decision element generates the self locking control signal and the tripping control signal according to the state of the short circuit detection element in the case of short circuit.

The automatic closing control unit further comprises a temperature detection subunit for detecting the temperature of the phase line and generates a self locking control signal and or tripping control signal when the temperature reaches the threshold value.

The temperature detection subunit comprises a temperature detection element arranged for at least one phase line and connected with the decision element and the decision element generates the self locking control signal and or tripping control signal according to the state of the temperature detection element at the abnormal temperature.

The automatic closing control unit further comprises a limit subunit which sends out a control signal to the motor motion control subunit after the circuit breaker is closed so as to enable the motor to stop.

The limit subunit comprises a photoelectric coupler and after the circuit breaker is closed a stage change is generated at the output terminal and transmitted to the motor motion control subunit to enable the motor to stop.

In accordance with another embodiment of the invention there provided is an intelligent circuit breaker with automatic closing function comprising a box body and a circuit board wherein the box body comprises an upper cover and a bottom box and a circuit breaker actuating mechanism for switching on off the circuit breaker a wire inlet end and a wire outlet end are arranged in the box body the circuit board comprises an automatic closing control unit the operation of a motor is realized through the automatic closing control unit and the circuit breaker actuating mechanism is driven to move through an electrical operating mechanism the automatic closing control unit comprises 

The circuit breaker actuating mechanism comprises a poke rod extending out of the box body similar to a handle or a linkage rod arranged in the circuit breaker actuating mechanism.

Based on different working principles the electrical operating mechanism can be classified into three categories. One is that the electrical operating mechanism comprises a pinion and rack mechanism and a shifting part the shifting part is connected with the poke rod a motor is arranged in a bottom box and the pinion and rack mechanism transforms the rotation of the motor into reciprocating action of the shifting part so that the circuit breaker actuating mechanism is triggered by the poke rod to realize the on off of the circuit breaker.

Optionally the electrical operating mechanism comprises a translational mechanism and a shifting part the shifting part is connected with the poke rod the translational mechanism drives the shifting part to make reciprocating motion so that the circuit breaker actuating mechanism is triggered by the poke rod to realize the on off of the circuit breaker.

Further optionally the electrical operating mechanism comprises a crank part and a shifting part and the shifting part is connected with the poke rod a motor is arranged in the bottom box and the rotation of the motor is transformed into reciprocating action of the shifting part through the crank part under the control of the automatic closing control unit so that the poke rod is switched in the on off state.

To have protection function at short circuit or abnormal electricity conditions the automatic closing control unit further comprises 

To prevent the circuit breaker from switching on automatically under the condition without eliminating the abnormal conditions the automatic closing control unit further comprises a self locking control subunit the self locking control subunit is connected with the motor motion control subunit and receives a self locking control signal indicating the short circuit conditions output by the short circuit detection subunit so that the motor motion control subunit enables the motor does not to generate action.

To achieve the remote control for example for prepayment the automatic closing control unit further comprises an external control unit the external control unit is connected with the tripping subunit and the motor motion control subunit respectively and receives an external control signal so as to control the tripping device and the motor.

The short circuit detection circuit comprises at least a short circuit detection element arranged for at least one phase line and connected with a decision element and the decision element generates the self locking control signal and the tripping control signal according to the state of the short circuit detection element in the case of short circuit.

The automatic closing control unit further comprises a temperature detection subunit for detecting the temperature of the phase line and generates a self locking control signal and or tripping control signal when the temperature reaches the threshold value.

The temperature detection subunit comprises a temperature detection element arranged for at least one phase line and connected with the decision element and the decision element generates the self locking control signal and or tripping control signal according to the state of the temperature detection element at the abnormal temperature.

The automatic closing control unit further comprises a limit subunit which sends out a control signal to the motor motion control subunit after the circuit breaker is closed so as to enable the motor to stop.

The limit subunit comprises a photoelectric coupler and after the circuit breaker is closed a stage change is generated at the output terminal and transmitted to the motor motion control subunit to enable the motor to stop.

Compared with the prior art the invention has the benefits that the automatic closing of the circuit breaker can be realized the circuit breaker can be disconnected when a short circuit occurs the temperature is too high or other abnormal electricity conditions occur and the circuit breaker cannot be automatically closed under the condition without eliminating the abnormal conditions thus the built in circuit breaker and the intelligent circuit breaker are suitable for the remote control of the circuit breaker and are basic products for the development of the smart grid.

It should be noted that the structures of a built in circuit breaker with automatic closing function according to the embodiments of the invention are applicable to an intelligent breaker with automatic closing function.

As shown in for a front view of a built in circuit breaker with automatic closing function. The built in circuit breaker with automatic closing function comprises a circuit breaker body wherein the circuit breaker body comprises a box body the box body comprises an upper cover a bearing plate and a bottom box and the bottom box is provided with a wire inlet port and a wire outlet port for realizing the leading in and leading out of the phase lines and zero lines a longitudinal partition board is arranged between every two incoming lines phase line and zero line for separation and is internally connected with a leading in metal sheet.

The circuit breaker actuating mechanism comprises a handle and a linkage component connected with the handle wherein a movable contact arm is hinged at the lower end of a linkage rod of the linkage component when the linkage component rotates under the action of the handle the movable contact arm is driven to rotate a moving contact on the movable contact arm is in contact with a stationary contact on a static contact piece and the static contact piece is connected with a wire outlet end on the bottom box so that the purpose of transmitting current out in the prior art is achieved.

The built in circuit breaker with automatic closing function comprises a mechanical part and a control part and as to the automatic closing function an automatic closing mechanical unit and an automatic closing control unit can be included. The built in circuit breaker with automatic closing function comprises a circuit breaker body. The circuit breaker body comprises an upper cover . A notch groove is formed on the upper cover and two ends of the notch groove are positioned in the on off position correspondingly to the circuit breaker the handle extends out of the notch groove .

As shown in and for a front view and a three dimensional exploded view of Embodiment 1 of the automatic closing mechanical unit of the built in circuit breaker with automatic closing function with the upper cover taken down. The built in circuit breaker with automatic closing function comprises a bearing plate wherein the bearing plate is arranged between the upper cover and the bottom box and combined with an electrical operating mechanism the electrical operating mechanism is provided with an execution end connected with the handle and the handle is further switched in the on off state during the operation of the electrical operating mechanism under the control of the automatic closing control unit.

The electrical operating mechanism comprises a motor and an intermediate transmission mechanism wherein the intermediate transmission mechanism is arranged on the bearing plate and comprises a pinion and rack mechanism and a shifting part and the shifting part is connected with the handle the motor is arranged in the bottom box and the rotation of the motor is transformed into reciprocating action of the shifting part through the pinion and rack mechanism so that the handle is switched in the on off state.

The shifting part is a frame body the handle penetrates the middle of the frame body of the shifting part and slide rails capable of moving along a chute are arranged on two sides of the frame body of the shifting part .

A rack combined with the frame body of the shifting part and capable of driving the frame body of the shifting part to make reciprocating motion 

A first gear arranged on the bearing plate and meshed with the rack an output shaft of the motor is connected with the first gear .

The pinion and rack mechanism further comprises a pinion and rack separation subunit used for separating the pinion and rack. At least one guide limit groove is formed on a lateral wing of the frame body the guide limit groove is longitudinal the pinion and rack separation subunit comprises 

The elastic component is a spring. A notch is formed on the upper cover the traction handle penetrates the notch and the lower end is propped against the upper cover after the traction handle is pulled up. When the traction rod is pulled up the rack is driven to move along the guide limit groove. Thus the rack is separated from the first gear and the handle can be operated manually.

More preferably the pinion and rack mechanism further comprises a speed reducer the speed reducer is arranged on the output shaft of the motor and an output shaft of the speed reducer is fixedly connected with the first gear .

More preferably a safety switch is arranged on the upper cover and corresponds to a corresponding latching switch on the automatic closing control unit so as to prevent the circuit breaker from being closed under the action of the motor during the maintenance.

More preferably a plurality of status indicator lamps are arranged on a circuit control board and correspond to through holes reserved on the upper cover after the upper cover is installed.

A tripping device is arranged on the bottom box and the action end of the tripping device is connected with the linkage rod of the linkage component through a connecting rod. When the tripping device obtains a corresponding control signal from a control circuit on the circuit control board a tripping action is generated that is the action end of the tripping device pushes the linkage rod to move and the moving contact is further separated from the stationary contact. The tripping device is an electromagnet and the action end of the tripping device serves as its armature end.

When any abnormal condition of short circuit or overcurrent occurs more preferably a mechanical self locking mechanism can also be included. The mechanical self locking mechanism comprises a limit rod wherein a hooked part is arranged at one end of the limit rod and hooked in a groove formed on an axial linkage rod the axial linkage rod can swing and is propped against with a linkage block of the linkage component and the other end of the limit rod can extend out It at least is aligned with the hole and does not extend out from a hole formed on the upper cover a through groove is formed in the middle of the limit rod a fixing part is fixedly connected with the upper cover from the lower part and penetrates the through groove and a return spring is arranged in the through groove when an abnormal condition occurs the tripping device moves for triggering the axial linkage rod to rotate the linkage block of the linkage component is driven to rotate the moving contact is further separated from the stationary contact the hooked part of the limit rod slips out of the groove at the moment the limit rod moves upwards under the action of the return spring arranged in the through groove and extends out of the hole on the upper cover and the hooked part is propped against the axial linkage rod so that the resetting is failed that is the self locking is formed. In that situation the indication effect of the extending limit rod shows that the off state of the present circuit breaker is caused by abnormality and if the circuit breaker is expected to be closed the extending limit rod is artificially pressed back through a rod and the hooked part is newly embedded in the groove so as to realize unlocking.

Certainly the above adopts mechanical self locking and when the electronic self locking is adopted the artificial unlocking is not required generally thus it is more convenient and more timely.

As shown in and for a front view and a three dimensional exploded view of Embodiment 2 of the automatic closing mechanical unit of the built in circuit breaker with automatic closing function with the upper cover taken down. The difference from Embodiment 1 lies in that the two stage gear transmission mode is adopted here a second gear is also included and the second gear is arranged on the bearing plate and meshed with the first gear . The motor positioned in the bottom box is fixedly connected with the second gear .

As shown in and for a front view and a three dimensional exploded view of Embodiment 3 of the automatic closing mechanical unit of the built in circuit breaker with automatic closing function with the upper cover taken down. The difference from Embodiment above mainly lies in that the electrical operating mechanism comprises a translational mechanism and a shifting part which are arranged on the bearing plate and the shifting part is propped against the handle 

The translational mechanism pushes the shifting part to make reciprocating motion so that the handle is switched in the on off state.

The shifting part adopts a shift fork a shift opening is formed at one end of the shift fork the handle is arranged in the shift opening and a push opening is formed at the other end of the shift fork . A first guide groove and a second guide groove which are parallel to the notch groove are formed on the bearing plate and a first bulge and a second bulge are arranged on the bottom surface of the shift fork and embedded in the guide grooves respectively.

A motor a threaded column is arranged on an output shaft of the motor and provided with an end and a propping part is arranged on the bottom side of the motor a notch groove is formed on the bearing plate and the motor is arranged in the notch groove 

A guide support seat the guide support seat is arranged on the bearing plate and provided with an inner threaded opening and the threaded column is screwed into the inner threaded opening and

the end of the threaded column and the propping part correspond to the two inner side walls of the push opening of the shift fork respectively.

The translational mechanism further comprises a lifting separation mechanism for separating the shift fork and the spiral pushing translational mechanism.

A notch is formed on the upper cover the traction handle penetrates the notch and the lower end is propped against the upper cover after the traction handle is pulled up.

When the motor rotates it horizontally moves relative to the guide support seat and is propped against the push opening of the shift fork and the shift fork moves along the first guide groove and the second guide groove so that the handle is switched in the on off state.

As shown in and for a front view and a three dimensional exploded view of Embodiment 4 of the automatic closing mechanical unit of the built in circuit breaker with automatic closing function with the upper cover taken down. The difference from Embodiment 3 lies in that the shifting part adopts a shift fork a shift opening is formed at one end of the shift fork the handle is arranged in the shift opening connecting holes are formed on two wings of the shift fork and the middle of the shift fork is coupled with the bearing plate .

The translational mechanism comprises a pair of electromagnets and which are fixedly arranged on the bearing plate the armature ends of the two electromagnets and are hinged with the connecting holes the two electromagnets and are not in the same working states that is one electromagnet is in the state that the armature extends out and the other electromagnet is in the state that the armature does not extend out so that a link mechanism is formed between the translational mechanism and the shift fork that is the purpose of switching the handle in the on off state is achieved through the alternant changes in state of the two electromagnets and .

As shown in and for a front view and a three dimensional exploded view of Embodiment 5 of the automatic closing mechanical unit of the built in circuit breaker with automatic closing function with the upper cover taken down. The difference from the embodiment above mainly lies in that the electrical operating mechanism comprises a crank part and a shifting part and the shifting part is connected with the handle a motor is arranged in the bottom box and the rotation of the motor is transformed into reciprocating action of the shifting part through the crank part under the control of the automatic closing control unit so that the handle is switched in the on off state.

The crank part in the embodiment comprises a ratchet pawl mechanism and a connecting rod the ratchet pawl mechanism comprises a housing a core and a rolling bearing the housing is provided with an internal tooth the internal tooth adopts a ratchet and a connecting hole is formed on the disc surface of the housing the core is arranged in the internal tooth at least one pawl is arranged on the outer edge of the core an elastic element is arranged between the pawl and the core and the pawl corresponds to the ratchet the rolling bearing is arranged between the housing and the core.

The shifting part is a frame body the handle penetrates the middle of the frame body slide rails capable of sliding along a chute are arranged on two sides of the frame body and a connecting hole is formed on the frame body the connecting rod is arranged between the connecting hole of the housing and the connecting hole of the frame body and the output shaft of the motor is arranged in a shaft hole of the core when the motor rotates the core drives the housing to rotate and the connecting rod further pulls or pushes the shifting part to move along the chute so that the handle is switched in the on off state.

As shown in and for a front view and a three dimensional exploded view of Embodiment 6 of the automatic closing mechanical unit of the built in circuit breaker with automatic closing function with the upper cover taken down. The difference from Embodiment 5 lies in that a connecting hole is not obliquely formed on the housing any more however an adapting rod is additionally arranged one end of the adapting rod is fixedly arranged at the middle of the housing a connecting hole is formed at the other end of the adapting rod the connecting rod is arranged between the connecting hole of the adapting rod and the connecting hole of the frame body and the output shaft of the motor is arranged in the shaft hole of the core when the motor rotates the core drives the housing to rotate and the adapting rod further drives the connecting rod to pull or push the shifting part to move along the chute so that the handle is switched in the on off state.

As shown in and for a front view and a three dimensional exploded view of Embodiment 7 of the automatic closing mechanical unit of the built in circuit breaker with automatic closing function with the upper cover taken down. The difference from Embodiment 5 lies in that a connecting hole is not obliquely formed on the housing any more however a disc is additionally arranged and fixedly arranged on the housing a connecting hole is obliquely formed on one side of the disc the connecting rod is arranged between the connecting hole of the disc and the connecting hole of the frame body and the output shaft of the motor is arranged in the shaft hole of the core when the motor rotates the core drives the housing and the disc further drives the connecting rod to pull or push the shifting part to move along the chute so that the handle is switched in the on off state.

As shown in and for a front view and a three dimensional exploded view of Embodiment 8 of the automatic closing mechanical unit of the built in circuit breaker with automatic closing function with the upper cover taken down. The difference from Embodiment 7 lies in that a gear is also included the gear is arranged on the bearing plate and connected with the output shaft of the motor teeth are arranged on the outer edge of the housing and the gear is meshed with the housing when the motor rotates to drive the gear to rotate the housing is driven to rotate the disc further drives the connecting rod to pull or push the shifting part to move along the chute and ultimately the handle is switched in the on off state.

As shown in and for a front view and a three dimensional exploded view of Embodiment 9 of the automatic closing mechanical unit of the built in circuit breaker with automatic closing function with the upper cover taken down. The difference from Embodiment 7 lies in that the positions of the ratchet pawl mechanism and the gear are exchanged a disc is fixedly arranged on a gear a connecting hole is obliquely formed on the disc and the core is fixedly connected with the motor actually a connecting hole can also be formed on the gear and then the disc is not required when the motor rotates to drive the core to rotate a housing is driven by the core to rotate the gear is further driven to rotate the disc further drives the connecting rod to pull or push the shifting part to move along the chute and ultimately the handle is switched in the on off state.

As shown in and for a front view and a three dimensional exploded view of Embodiment 10 of the automatic closing mechanical unit of the built in circuit breaker with automatic closing function with the upper cover taken down. The crank part and the shifting part here have differences with the Embodiments 5 10 the shifting part adopts a shift fork the middle of the shift fork is axially arranged on the bearing plate a shift opening is formed at one end of the shift fork the handle is arranged in the shift opening and a push opening is formed at the other end of the shift fork a push rod is obliquely arranged on a housing of the ratchet pawl mechanism when the motor rotates to drive the core to rotate the housing is further driven to rotate the push rod further pushes the push opening the shift fork rotates around an axis and ultimately the handle positioned in the shift opening is switched in the on off state.

As shown in for a preferable scheme for a three dimensional exploded view of an automatic closing mechanical unit of a built in circuit breaker in accordance with embodiment 10 of the invention with an upper cover taken down. The difference between the embodiment of and the embodiments of mainly lies in that in this embodiment the ratchet pawl mechanism further comprises an adjusting seat and an adjusting handle the adjusting seat is fixedly arranged at the middle of the housing and a notch groove formed in the middle of the adjusting seat a bulge at the lower end of the adjusting handle corresponds to the notch groove and the handle is rotatably adjusted to drive the adjusting seat and the housing to rotate under the non working state of the pawl. Thus the handle of the circuit breaker can be operated manually. A notch is formed on the upper cover and the adjusting handle extends in via the notch. It should be noted that based on the structure of the ratchet pawl mechanism the above mentioned embodiments can be adjusted following this embodiment so that the handle of the circuit breaker can also be operated manually.

As shown in for a diagram of the automatic closing control unit of the intelligent circuit breaker with automatic closing function it s also suitable for a built in circuit breaker with automatic closing function and the three phase circuit breaker is taken as an example in the embodiment. The control circuit comprises a power collection subunit the power collection subunit obtains a current signal from the phase line mainly involving the rectifying and filtering effect to the current of the phase lines three diodes D D are adopted and connected with the phase lines A C and a capacitor C is adopted for filtering 

A voltage regulator circuit the voltage regulator circuit comprises a voltage stabilizing tube DW and a capacitor C and a capacitor C which are connected with the voltage stabilizing tube DW in parallel wherein the cathode of the capacitor C is grounded and the anode of the capacitor C is connected with the output terminal of the power collection subunit 

A tripping subunit when the tripping subunit receives the tripping control signal the circuit breaker generates switch off action the tripping subunit comprises an electromagnet one end of an electromagnetic coil TQXQ of the electromagnet acquires unidirectional voltage current from a power collection circuit the other end of the electromagnetic coil TQXQ is grounded through a silicon controlled rectifier SCR and a capacitor C is arranged between the control end of the silicon controlled rectifier SCR and the ground 

A short circuit detection circuit the short circuit detection circuit is used for detecting whether a short circuit occurs and the control signal is output when a short circuit occurs the short circuit detection circuit comprises three groups of short circuit detection elements and a decision element wherein the short circuit detection element is used for generating variation in the case of short circuiting The reed switches Sa Sb and Sc are taken as an example and the decision element The comparators IC IC are taken as an example is used for obtaining the variation from the short circuit detection element and comparing the variation with the predetermined benchmark The number of both and the number of phase lines are consistent one ends of the reed switches Sa Sb and Sc are connected with the noninverting terminals of the comparators IC IC and the other ends of the reed switches Sa Sb and Sc are connected with the output terminal of the power connection subunit so as to be used as comparison signals of the comparators IC IC the inverting terminals of the comparators IC IC obtain a stable voltage signal as the reference voltage the embodiment is obtained by adopting a group of divider resistors R and R wherein one end of the divider resistor R is connected with the cathode of the capacitor C in the voltage regulator circuit and the other end of the divider resistor R is connected with the output terminal of the power collection subunit diodes D D and D are arranged between the output terminal and the noninverting terminal of each of the comparators IC IC the reed switches Sa Sb and Sc of each short circuit detection circuit are connected with the control end of the silicon controlled rectifier SCR through diodes D D and D so as to output the tripping control signal to the silicon controlled rectifier SCR 

A self locking control subunit the self locking control subunit receives the signal indicating the short circuit condition output by a short circuit detection subunit so that the motor does not generate action the self locking control subunit comprises a first triode Q wherein the collecting electrode of the first triode Q is connected with the output terminal of the power collection subunit the emitting electrode of the first triode Q is grounded a pull up resistor R obtains the output signals of the comparators IC IC and is connected with the base electrode of the first triode Q the base electrode is connected with the ground through a resistor R and a resistor R is connected between the emitting electrode and the collecting electrode of the first triode Q 

An automatic closing control subunit of the motor comprises a second triode Q wherein the base electrode of the second triode Q is connected with the collecting electrode of the first triode Q and the emitting electrode of the second triode Q is grounded one end of the motor M is connected with the output terminal of the power collection subunit and the other end of the motor M is connected with the collecting electrode of the second triode Q 

More preferably to accord with the results in the mechanical structure a limit switch K is arranged on a circuit for the automatic closing control subunit of the motor and used for controlling a motor M to stop running after reaching the preset position so as to ensure the closed position of the circuit breaker 

More preferably an inspection switch K also called as a latching switch capable of being manually opened or closed is arranged on the circuit for the automatic closing control subunit of the motor that is when the inspection switch K is in the off state the motor M does not generate action under any state 

A tripping subunit reset circuit is also included the tripping subunit reset circuit comprises a reset key REST wherein the first end of the reset key REST is connected with the control end of the silicon controlled rectifier SCR and the second end of the reset key REST is grounded 

More preferably light emitting diodes LEDa LEDb and LEDc are arranged at the output terminals of the comparators IC IC and have indication effect.

As shown in for a diagram of the automatic closing control subunit of the intelligent circuit breaker with automatic closing function it s also suitable for a built in circuit breaker with automatic closing function and the difference between the diagram and the diagram lies in that an external control subunit is additionally arranged so as to meet the demands of the prepayment electrical management system. The external control subunit comprises a unidirectional current component for example a diode D and a control component wherein the control component is used for controlling both the tripping subunit and the automatic closing control subunit of the motor the automatic closing control subunit comprises a third triode Q and a fourth triode Q wherein the base electrode of the third triode Q receives an external control signal a capacitor C is connected between the emitting electrode and the collecting electrode of the third triode Q the cathode of the capacitor C and the emitting electrode of the third triode Q are grounded and the collecting electrode of the third triode Q is connected with the control end of the silicon controlled rectifier SCR through a diode D that is when the external signal is in high potential the tripping device does not generate tripping action the emitting electrode and the collecting electrode of the fourth triode Q PNP type are arranged on the circuit for the automatic closing control subunit of the motor M and the base electrode of the fourth triode Q is connected with the collecting electrode of the third triode Q that is when the external control signal is in high potential the fourth triode Q is conducted when the external control signal is in low potential the tripping subunit generates tripping action and meanwhile the fourth triode Q is in the cut off state that is the automatic closing control subunit of the motor does not work.

More preferably an external control indication circuit is also arranged and comprises an LED wherein one end of the LED is grounded the other end of the LED is connected with a resistor R and when the external control signal is in high voltage the LED is in lighted state otherwise the LED goes out.

As shown in for a diagram of the automatic closing control subunit of the intelligent circuit breaker with automatic closing function and the difference from the diagram mainly lies in that a limit subunit is additionally arranged correspondingly a limit switch is not adopted so that the space is saved the limit subunit comprises a photoelectric coupler IC wherein an input terminal of the photoelectric coupler IC is connected with a phase line through a unidirectional current component A diode D and a voltage dropping resistor R are adopted here the other input terminal of the photoelectric coupler IC is grounded an output terminal of the photoelectric coupler IC is grounded and the other output terminal of the photoelectric coupler IC is connected with the base electrode of the second triode Q after the motor M is automatically closed the output terminal of the photoelectric coupler IC outputs low potential the second triode Q is cut off since the base electrode obtains low potential the automatic closing control subunit of the motor M is further disconnected and ultimately the motor stops running

As shown in for a diagram of the automatic closing control subunit of the intelligent circuit breaker with automatic closing function it s also suitable for a built in circuit breaker with automatic closing function and the difference between the diagram and the diagram mainly lies in that current is detected in the embodiment thus the reed switches Sa Sb and Sc are not used any more however the current collection component is adopted current transformers TAa Tab and Tac are adopted here and arranged on each phase line respectively voltage signals are converted and transmitted to the comparators IC IC and meanwhile the comparators IC IC transmit the output signals to both the self locking automatic closing control subunit and the control end of the silicon controlled rectifier SCR for the tripping subunit when the abnormal condition of overcurrent occurs the comparators IC IC output high potential signals to the control end of the silicon controlled rectifier SCR so that the tripping action is generated and its necessary to explain the threshold value of an overcurrent comparator is adjustable because the reference voltage of the inverting terminals of the comparators IC IC adopts a sliding rheostat w.

As shown in for a diagram of the automatic closing control subunit of the intelligent circuit breaker with automatic closing function it s also suitable for a built in circuit breaker with automatic closing function and the difference from the diagram mainly lies in that a temperature detection subunit is additionally arranged correspondingly when the temperature reaches a certain threshold value the circuit breaker is disconnected and the self locking function to the motor is achieved the temperature detection subunit comprises a temperature detecting element The temperature sensors ta tb and tc are taken as an example here arranged for at least one phase line wherein the temperature detecting element is connected with a decision element The comparators IC IC are taken as an example here and the decision element generates at least one of a self locking control signal and a tripping control signal according to the state of the temperature detecting element at the abnormal temperature. Three groups of temperature sensors ta tb and tc and comparators IC IC The number of both and the number of phase lines are consistent are arranged for the embodiment and one ends of the temperature sensors ta tb and tc are connected with the noninverting terminals of the comparators IC IC the other ends of the temperature sensors ta tb and tc are connected with the output terminal of the power collection subunit so as to be used as comparison signals of the comparators IC IC the inverting terminals of the comparators IC IC obtain a stable voltage signal as the reference voltage the embodiment is obtained through a group of divider resistors R and R wherein one end of the divider resistor R is connected with the cathode of the capacitor C in the voltage regulator circuit and the other end of the divider resistor R is connected with the output terminal of the power collection subunit share with the short circuit self locking subunit diodes D D and D are arranged between the output terminal and the noninverting terminal of each of the comparators IC IC the temperature detection subunit is connected with the control end of the silicon controlled rectifier SCR so as to output the tripping control signal to the silicon controlled rectifier SCR more preferably LEDTa LEDTb are also arranged at the output terminals of the comparators IC IC for indication.

As shown in for a diagram of the automatic closing control subunit of the intelligent circuit breaker with automatic closing function and it s also suitable for a built in circuit breaker with automatic closing function the embodiment is matched with the mechanical short circuit self locking method thus the difference from the diagram on the structure of the circuit mainly lies in that a short circuit detection unit and a self locking automatic closing control subunit are not arranged any more however the mechanical short circuit method is only adopted that is the purpose of the invention is achieved in the form of short circuit locking K on the circuit.

As shown in for a diagram of the automatic closing control subunit of the intelligent circuit breaker with automatic closing function and it s also suitable for a built in circuit breaker with automatic closing function this diagram reflects an example of realizing intelligence through a processor in the prior control technology wherein the current value on each phase line is obtained from power lines A B and C through the current transformers TAa Tab and TAc and then is converted into a corresponding digital signal through an analog digital conversion circuit the digital signal is transmitted to an MCU and the program preset in the MCU can be used for determining the obtained electricity information overcurrent short circuit and other abnormal conditions so as to output the corresponding control signal an analog power supply circuit comprises divider resistors R R and the voltage value obtained from each phase line is transmitted to the analog digital conversion circuit a digital power supply circuit obtains a power signal from the power line through a voltage transformer BT and then is connected with the MCU after the processing of a voltage regulator chip D so as to provide the power signal for the MCU and a switch K is arranged between the digital power supply circuit and the MCU and used for cutting off the electricity supply of the MCU so as to avoid an accident during the maintenance due to the unreasonable control of the MCU a group of temperature sensors IC IC can also be included which is used for detecting the temperature value at the node of each phase line and converting the temperature value into a digital signal transmitted to the MCU and the MCU determines whether to output the control signal when the temperature exceeds a threshold value a rectifier filter circuit comprises three diodes D D a capacitor C and a resistor R and supplies power to the tripping device TQXQ a trip coil of the tripping device is grounded through the silicon controlled rectifier SCR and the control end of the controlled rectifier SCR is connected with an output terminal of the MCU to increase the intelligent function the MCU can also be connected with a communication circuit can be data interchanged with other communication devices in a wired or wireless manner thus the control signals from the outer end can be received a memory is used for storing various data in the circuit breaker a display circuit is used for displaying various state information detected by the circuit breaker and a corresponding display screen is arranged on the box body of the circuit breaker a clock circuit and a keyboard circuit are respectively used for providing a clock signal and an input command for the MCU there are various corresponding circuits for the functional circuits above from the specific implementation each circuit is well known and the corresponding circuits can be selected by the technicians in the field as required thus they are not required to be repeated here the output terminals PX. and PX. of the MCU are connected with the self locking control subunit in the embodiment above for purpose of controlling the action of the automatic closing control subunit of the motor and can also be directly connected with the automatic closing control subunit of the motor and the MCU determines whether the automatic closing control subunit is required to work according to whether the present abnormal electricity condition is eliminated.

As shown in for a diagram of the control circuit for reciprocating motion of the automatic closing control subunit of the intelligent circuit breaker with automatic closing function to the motor and it s also suitable for a built in circuit breaker with automatic closing function in the diagram there are four groups of PNP triodes Q Q Q and Q and protecting diodes D D D and D wherein the collecting electrodes are connected with the anodes of the protecting diodes the emitting electrodes are connected with the cathodes of the protecting diodes two groups of PNP triodes Q and Q and collecting electrodes of protecting diodes D and D are connected at the noninverting terminal of the motor and the emitting electrodes between the two groups are connected together the other two groups of PNP triodes Q and Q and collecting electrodes of protecting diodes D and D are connected at the inverting terminal of the motor and the emitting electrodes between the two groups are connected together in a first unilateral diode D the anode is connected with the noninverting terminal of the motor and the cathode is connected with a control terminal PX. of the MCU in a second unilateral diode D the anode is connected with the inverting terminal of the motor and the cathode is connected with a control terminal PX. of the MCU as shown in the base electrode of the PNP triode Q is connected with the emitting electrode of the PNP triode Q and the base electrode of the PNP triode Q is connected with the control terminal PX. the base electrode of the PNP triode Q is connected with the emitting electrode of the PNP triode Q the base electrode of the PNP triode Q is connected with the control terminal PX. and the collecting electrode of the PNP triode Q is connected with the base electrode of the PNP triode Q the base electrode of the PNP triode Q is connected with the collecting electrode of the PNP triode Q meanwhile the base electrode of the PNP triode Q is connected with the collecting electrode of the PNP triode Q. The positive rotation and the negative rotation of the motor are controlled through the output signals at the control terminals PX. and PX. of the MCU so that the reciprocating motion of the corresponding actuating mechanism is realized.

While particular embodiments of the invention have been shown and described it will be obvious to those skilled in the art that changes and modifications may be made without departing from the invention in its broader aspects and therefore the aim in the appended claims is to cover all such changes and modifications as fall within the true spirit and scope of the invention.

