---

title: Wireless network host in silent mode
abstract: An access point that implements operating modes in which beacons may be selectively disabled. Beacons may be disabled when no device is actively associated through the access point. Beacons may be enabled in response to one or more triggers, which may include events such as a client forming an association through the access point following a probe request message identifying the access point. In addition, active beaconing may be triggered by user input or may occur during periodic brief intervals that allow client devices to discover the network identifier for the access point. Selective control of beaconing may lead to more effective wireless communication, particularly in areas where users congregate with computers implementing soft APs for personal networks.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09307398&OS=09307398&RS=09307398
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09307398
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150213
---
This application is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 753 234 filed on Jan. 29 2013 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 958 405 issued Feb. 17 2015 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 125 034 filed on May 21 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 374 159 issued Feb. 12 2013. Each of the afore referenced applications is hereby incorporated by reference.

Wireless communication provides significant flexibility to computer users. By communicating wirelessly computer users may simply create a network or may have network connectivity as they move their computers from place to place. In a typical wireless local area network WLAN a wireless client connects to an access point AP and communication is enabled between the client and a network.

An AP is a piece of equipment that allows devices to connect to a network. Access points for example are used to allow wireless clients to connect to a wired network enabling the wireless clients to use devices connected to the wired network. APs may be self contained hardware devices. Alternatively computing devices e.g. laptops can be adapted to act as APs through the use of software. Such software based access points or soft APs may allow a wireless client to access services not only on a network to which the computing device is connected but also on the computing device itself.

Access points operate according to protocols that enable client devices to form network connections. Wireless access points frequently advertise their presence by broadcasting beacons at regular intervals. Each beacon frame may carry such information as the beacon interval timestamp service set identifier SSID supported data rates and other pertinent data regarding the access point. The SSID identifies a specific network for which access is provided by the access point. Though not all of this information may be broadcast in every scenario. For example some access points may opt to disable the SSID from being broadcast in beacon frames to reduce security issues.

In addition to enabling a client device to find an access point the periodic beacons can synchronize operation of client devices once they are associated with the network. For example a beacon signal may indicate whether there are messages waiting for the client at the AP. Such a protocol allows more efficient operation of a client because it only needs to monitor for incoming messages at periodic beacon intervals and following receipt of beacons that indicate the access point has buffered messages for the client.

Devices operating as wireless access points may be configured to selectively operate in a silent mode. In silent mode the access point broadcasts beacons at a lower rate than during an active mode in which a device is associated with the access point. The access point may switch between silent and active modes in response to trigger events.

Accordingly in one aspect the invention relates a method of operating a host computing device adapted to act as an access point to at least one network. The method includes operating in a first mode in which beaconing is not enabled. When the host computing device receives a trigger it switches to a second mode in which beaconing is enabled.

In another aspect the invention relates to a method of operating a host computing device adapted to act as an access point to at least one network. The method includes operating in a first mode in which beacons are broadcast at a first rate. In response to receiving the trigger the host operates in a second mode in which beacons are broadcast at a second rate. The second rate is slower than the first rate.

In a further aspect the invention relates to a computer storage medium comprising computer executable instructions for controlling a wireless network interface to act as an access point to a network. The access point operates in a first mode in which beacons are broadcast at a first rate. In response to receiving a first trigger the access point operates in a second mode in which beacons are broadcast at a second rate. In response to receiving a second trigger the access point operates in the first mode. The first rate is slower than the second rate.

The inventors have recognized and appreciated that as users take advantage of soft access point functionality in computing devices there is a risk that in locations where computer users congregate there will be multiple devices broadcasting beacons. The inventors have further recognized that multiple beaconing devices operating within transmit range of each other will create spectrum congestion that can interfere with effective communication. When a client or soft access point connected as one network needs to exchange information their communication may be disrupted by other devices broadcasting beacons.

Though wireless communication protocols are designed to continue operation despite occasional disruptions of this type as the disruptions become more frequent the throughput supported by a connection decreases. If the disruptions are too frequent effective communication is foreclosed. Though even if disruptions caused by in range soft APs are not so severe that they prevent communication they can reduce supported data rates to the point that a user s experience is negatively impacted. Such disruptions could arise for example in private offices or public places in which mobile computer users may congregate.

Thus use of soft access points and particularly soft access points in mobile devices may create problems that are not prevalent with current wireless networks. For example as mobile computer users more frequently use soft AP functionality to implement personal area networks between their computers and other devices such as smart phones and music players there will be more access points in general. Moreover these access points may be concentrated in areas where people tend to congregate such as offices conference centers and other public places.

Further the inventors have recognized and appreciated that more mobile APs e.g. laptops acting as soft APs with less frequently consumed services can operate differently than current fixed APs. Such soft APs may desirably be able to operate in a way that consumes less of the available spectrum by reducing the instances in which they broadcast beacons.

Accordingly some embodiments of the invention provide a new silent mode for wireless network hosting where the beacon of an AP may be suppressed when there are no devices associated with the wireless network or when beaconing is not otherwise necessary. The beacon could be activated when necessary upon the receipt by the AP of an appropriate trigger. Likewise beaconing may be deactivated in response to a trigger. In some embodiments the AP even though not beaconing may continue to monitor transmissions from potential clients in which case the trigger that activates beaconing may be initiated by actions taken by a potential wireless client. In embodiments in which a beacon is used to enable client devices to locate the access point the beaconing may be triggered at periodic intervals and then disabled after an interval that may be long enough to allow a client device to discover the access point. In other embodiments in which a beacon is used to synchronize communication with one or more clients the beaconing may be triggered once a client forms an association through the access point and disabled once all clients disassociate from the access point or at some time after clients disassociate. Though the triggers may come from any suitable sources including user input or through an application executing on the host AP itself.

Embodiments of the invention are operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with embodiments of the invention include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Embodiments of the invention may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Embodiments of the invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing embodiments of the invention includes a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer . Components of computer may include but are not limited to a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus also known as Mezzanine bus.

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes both volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can accessed by computer . Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates operating system application programs other program modules and program data .

The computer may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. By way of example only illustrates a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies. A user may enter commands and information into the computer through input devices such as a keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown may include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . In addition to the monitor computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer although only a memory storage device has been illustrated in . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

The computer may be connected to various networking environments through a network interface or adapter . Network interface may comprise a wired LAN card. Communication over a wired connection may be in accordance with the Ethernet protocol or any other suitable protocol. Alternatively or additionally network interface may comprise a wireless LAN or wireless WAN card allowing computer to access a network using wireless technology. A wireless LAN card may be configured to communicate according to the IEEE 802.11 WiFi standard or any other suitable protocol. A wireless WAN card may be configured to communicate according to the IEEE 802.16 WiMAX standard or any other suitable protocol.

Such wireless LAN and WAN cards comprise a radio transmitter and receiver which respectively send and receive wireless signals for communication with at least one device in a wireless network. The computer may include a driver and or other programmed instructions through which it communicates with the radio hardware. For example radio hardware may be made available by an independent vendor who also provides the driver and or other programmed instructions through which the computer e.g. operating system may communicate with and invoke various functionality provided by the radio. These programmed instructions may include any component s comprising a hardware interface adapted to communicate with radio hardware provide control signals to radio hardware and or receive information regarding wireless signals received by radio hardware from one or more wireless networks.

When used in a WAN networking environment the computer typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the user input interface or other appropriate mechanism.

In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof may be stored in the remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on memory device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

To support operation in silent mode operating system may be programmed to control a radio such as a radio associated with a wireless network interface to selectively suppress beaconing.

Radios and on computers and respectively are enabled via software to allow each computer to perform as a wireless AP. Although these APs are schematically illustrated it should be noted that each radio depicted may be part of a computer s wireless network interface or may be implemented in any other suitable way. As such wireless client or device is able to connect to computer via WLAN established by radio .

Computer is also configured to act as a wireless access point and each of devices and is able to connect to computer via WLAN established with radio . In this example computer and devices and may be configured as a form of personal area network PAN .

Similarly each of devices and is able to connect to computer via radio and WLAN . Any of these devices may employ any services accessible on the computer or soft access point to which each device is connected. Additionally via computers and devices and are able to connect to another network e.g. the Internet to which computers and are connected. In this particular example no devices are presently connected to computer . Also computer is not connected to any outside network in this instance the network to which computer is providing access could be one or more services or components within the computer itself. Thus illustrates that there are multiple reasons that a computer may be configured as a wireless access point and it is possible that multiple such computers may exist in an area . Four computers acting as APs six devices and two networks are shown for simplicity but the number of APs devices and networks is not a limitation on the invention and any suitable number may be used.

In this embodiment each of the devices depicted in are within wireless access range of each of the four computers and acting as APs. The combination of connections depicted is simply an example and any number of groupings of devices with APs is possible. If computers and were implemented as access points as known in the art all four APs would be continuously beaconing via the transmitter of radios and . Instead in embodiments of the invention AP would operate in a silent beaconing mode as it does not have any wireless clients or devices actively associated with either itself or network .

The flowchart of demonstrates how a host AP may toggle between a silent mode and an active or enabled beaconing mode based on triggers initiated by the wireless client in accordance with some embodiments of the invention. In this example in step a wireless client e.g. device is initialized or provisioned with the SSID for a network e.g. network hosted by an AP e.g. AP . This provisioning can be done by providing information other than by direct communication between the host computer and the client device i.e. an out of band communication or in any suitable way including manually via a wired connection to the AP or via a wireless connection to the AP as discussed below with respect to . Meanwhile the initial or default configuration of the host AP is the silent mode where no beacons are being transmitted. Rather the host AP is passively listening for probe requests coming from a client that are directed specifically to its SSID.

When the wireless client attempts to connect to a network it may obtain an SSID for the network. The SSID may be obtained in any suitable way such as by looking up the desired SSID for that network in step that has been provisioned in the client. The client then determines the presence of the network by sending out probe request messages e.g. via the WiFi protocol or any other suitable protocol that include the specific SSID for the network step . Upon receipt of a probe request message in step the host AP determines whether to respond by checking if the probe request matches the network. For example the AP may check if the SSID matches its network step . Alternatively any suitable criteria may be used to determine whether the probe request matches the network as the use of SSID matching is not a limitation on the invention. In the illustrated embodiment the host AP ignores any probe requests with a different or no SSID specified. On the other hand if the probe request is deemed to be directed to an SSID matching the AP s network the host AP will in turn respond. In this embodiment the host AP responds step with a probe response message e.g. via the WiFi protocol or any other suitable protocol provided that any other information in the probe request message is compliant with any other local policies that may be in place within the AP.

At step the client can then proceed by sending an association request message to the host AP which will respond accordingly in step e.g. via the WiFi protocol or any other suitable protocol . Provided that the association request is accepted by the AP an association between the client and the network will be formed steps and and the association will be recorded in some suitable location within the AP e.g. an association table . At that point step the successful association may trigger the host AP to enable normal beaconing procedures which leads to normal communications between the host AP and the client per the WiFi protocol or any other suitable protocol steps and .

The host may be controlled to enable beaconing in any suitable way. For example a network interface card may have a control interface that accepts commands that specify operating parameters of the network interface card. Those commands may include commands that enable or disable beaconing or that set the rate at which beacons are broadcast. Beaconing will continue provided any associations remain active e.g. as noted in the association table . When communication is complete the wireless client may disassociate step . When the last associated client disassociates or is disassociated step the host AP may enter back into silent beacon mode step . Disabling beaconing in this fashion prevents unnecessary use of the frequency spectrum.

Alternatively in step the host AP may choose to delay changing back to silent mode. The period of delay may be determined in any suitable way such as based on instructions from an internal logic unit or application within the AP e.g. software or application programming interface API in the operating system or in a driver . This would permit the network to continue to be visible for some time after the last station has disassociated so that other services could be consumed if deemed necessary by the host AP.

In response to the triggering input the host AP enables beaconing step . This beaconing activation can be done via a control signal to the radio transmitter of the host AP. The control signal may be the triggering input itself or it may be generated separately in a similar fashion as the triggering input or in any suitable way. The control signal may include an upper threshold value indicating a maximum period of time during which beaconing is to remain enabled without any association requests e.g. transmitted via the WiFi protocol or any other suitable protocol received from a wireless client and or any successful associations formed between a wireless client and the network hosted by the AP. If no such associations are formed before expiration of the maximum time period step then the host AP may toggle back to the silent beacon mode step . The disabling of the beacon can be done by commands passed to a control interface of a network interface or in any suitable way.

Alternatively upon completion of step request messages from a wireless client may be received by the host AP in step e.g. probe request and or association request messages via the WiFi protocol or any other suitable protocol leading to a successful association being formed in step before expiration of the maximum time period. If that occurs the association will be recorded in some suitable location within the AP e.g. an association table . At that point step this successful association may trigger the host AP to continue normal beaconing procedures and conduct normal communications between the host AP and the client per the WiFi protocol or any other suitable protocol step .

As these steps take place on the host AP several parallel actions may occur within the wireless client. Namely after beaconing is enabled on the host AP step the wireless client may receive beacon frames containing the SSID of the network hosted by the AP step . This allows the client to send an association request message to that host AP step which will respond accordingly in step e.g. via the WiFi protocol or any other suitable protocol . Provided that the association request is accepted by the AP an association between the client and the network will be formed steps and leading to normal communications between the host AP and the client per the WiFi protocol or any other suitable protocol steps and . In addition the client may store the SSID for future use step in any suitable memory location within the client. In this way the client has been wirelessly provisioned with the SSID for any future connection attempts between the client and the corresponding network.

Beaconing will continue provided any associations remain active e.g. as noted in the association table formed in step . When communication is complete the wireless client may disassociate step . When the last associated client disassociates or is disassociated step the host AP may enter back into silent beacon mode step . This saves power provides an improved level of privacy and prevents unnecessary use of the frequency spectrum. Alternatively in step the host AP may choose to delay changing back to silent mode based on instructions from an internal logic unit or application within the AP e.g. software or API in the operating system or in a driver . This would permit the network to continue to be visible for some time after the last station has disassociated so that other services could be consumed if deemed necessary by the host AP.

A triggering input may be user input received through interface via software or via an API and or a logic unit within the operating system . For example a user may indicate through UI that the host should configure itself to allow a device to form an association with the access point.

Regardless of the source of the triggering input the triggering input may be provided through an application programming interface to control logic . Control logic may determine based on input and any prior input that sets the state of the device an appropriate mode of operation for access point .

Regardless of the source of the triggering input or inputs logic may determine an appropriate command or commands to apply network interface to cause the network interface to have the appropriate beaconing behavior. This command information may be applied to radio within the network interface through driver . In the embodiment illustrated commands to turn on or off beaconing are applied to driver through an API . However any suitable mechanism for translating trigger events into commands that control the beacons transmitted by a radio may be used.

Having just described some representative embodiments there may be several variations on these embodiments. For example active beacon mode and silent mode were earlier described respectively as the beacon being turned on and off. In some embodiments beaconing may not be entirely off to achieve the intended effect of reducing spectral congestion. Rather silent mode could also indicate a reduction in the rate at which beacons are being transmitted. For example a beacon interval may typically be set to 100 ms in active beaconing mode of a device operating according to an IEEE 802.11 protocol. In some embodiments of the invention a host AP may use a beacon interval of 500 ms or more when in silent mode. In other embodiments a host AP in silent mode may use a beacon interval of 1 second or more in silent mode.

In such embodiments where the silent mode comprises broadcasting beacons at a lower rate or longer interval than during active beaconing mode the beacon packets broadcast while in silent mode may still indicate a beacon interval value identical or substantially equivalent to the beacon interval value when the host AP is in the active beacon mode. In this way even if the host AP is in the silent mode the client will still have the correct beacon interval value and the client may operate as if the AP is in active beaconing mode where beacons had just been missed. Once the AP returns to active beaconing mode the client may rely on the previously obtained beacon interval mode to continue or resume normal communication.

Having thus described several aspects of at least one embodiment of this invention it is to be appreciated that various alterations modifications and improvements will readily occur to those skilled in the art.

Such alterations modifications and improvements are intended to be part of this disclosure and are intended to be within the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the foregoing description and drawings are by way of example only.

The above described embodiments of the present invention can be implemented in any of numerous ways. For example the embodiments may be implemented using hardware software or a combination thereof. When implemented in software the software code can be executed on any suitable processor or collection of processors whether provided in a single computer or distributed among multiple computers.

Further it should be appreciated that a computer may be embodied in any of a number of forms such as a rack mounted computer a desktop computer a laptop computer or a tablet computer. Additionally a computer may be embedded in a device not generally regarded as a computer but with suitable processing capabilities including a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a smart phone or any other suitable portable or fixed electronic device.

Also a computer may have one or more input and output devices. These devices can be used among other things to present a user interface. Examples of output devices that can be used to provide a user interface include printers or display screens for visual presentation of output and speakers or other sound generating devices for audible presentation of output. Examples of input devices that can be used for a user interface include keyboards and pointing devices such as mice touch pads and digitizing tablets. As another example a computer may receive input information through speech recognition or in other audible format.

Such computers may be interconnected by one or more networks in any suitable form including as a local area network or a wide area network such as an enterprise network or the Internet. Such networks may be based on any suitable technology and may operate according to any suitable protocol and may include wireless networks wired networks or fiber optic networks.

Also the various methods or processes outlined herein may be coded as software that is executable on one or more processors that employ any one of a variety of operating systems or platforms. Additionally such software may be written using any of a number of suitable programming languages and or programming or scripting tools and also may be compiled as executable machine language code or intermediate code that is executed on a framework or virtual machine.

In this respect embodiments of the invention may be provided using a computer readable medium or multiple computer readable media e.g. a computer memory one or more floppy discs compact discs optical discs magnetic tapes flash memories circuit configurations in Field Programmable Gate Arrays or other semiconductor devices or other tangible computer storage medium encoded with one or more programs that when executed on one or more computers or other processors perform methods that implement the various embodiments of the invention discussed above. The computer readable medium or media can be transportable such that the program or programs stored thereon can be loaded onto one or more different computers or other processors to implement various aspects of the present invention as discussed above.

The terms program or software are used herein in a generic sense to refer to any type of computer code or set of computer executable instructions that can be employed to program a computer or other processor to implement various aspects of the present invention as discussed above. Additionally it should be appreciated that according to one aspect of this embodiment one or more computer programs that when executed perform methods of the present invention need not reside on a single computer or processor but may be distributed in a modular fashion amongst a number of different computers or processors to implement various aspects of the present invention.

Computer executable instructions may be in many forms such as program modules executed by one or more computers or other devices. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the program modules may be combined or distributed as desired in various embodiments.

Also data structures may be stored in computer readable media in any suitable form. For simplicity of illustration data structures may be shown to have fields that are related through location in the data structure. Such relationships may likewise be achieved by assigning storage for the fields with locations in a computer readable medium that conveys relationship between the fields. However any suitable mechanism may be used to establish a relationship between information in fields of a data structure including through the use of pointers tags or other mechanisms that establish relationship between data elements.

Various aspects of the present invention may be used alone in combination or in a variety of arrangements not specifically discussed in the embodiments described in the foregoing and is therefore not limited in its application to the details and arrangement of components set forth in the foregoing description or illustrated in the drawings. For example aspects described in one embodiment may be combined in any manner with aspects described in other embodiments.

Also embodiments of the invention may be provided via a method of which an example has been provided. The acts performed as part of the method may be ordered in any suitable way. Accordingly embodiments may be constructed in which acts are performed in an order different than illustrated which may include performing some acts simultaneously even though shown as sequential acts in illustrative embodiments.

Use of ordinal terms such as first second third etc. in the claims to modify a claim element does not by itself connote any priority precedence or order of one claim element over another or the temporal order in which acts of a method are performed but are used merely as labels to distinguish one claim element having a certain name from another element having a same name but for use of the ordinal term to distinguish the claim elements.

Also the phraseology and terminology used herein is for the purpose of description and should not be regarded as limiting. The use of including comprising or having containing involving and variations thereof herein is meant to encompass the items listed thereafter and equivalents thereof as well as additional items.

