---

title: Buffer relay management within single user, multiple user, multiple access, and/or MIMO wireless communications
abstract: A relay wireless communication device is implemented to perform buffer management and coordination with a source wireless communication device. A relay wireless communication device (generally, a relay) informs a source wireless communication device (source) of the status of memory therein to store messages intended for a destination wireless communication device (destination). For example, the source transmits information to the relay, which buffers information before forwarding it on to the destination. This buffering may be a function of the source having additional information intended for the relay and/or destination. The relay performs appropriate signaling, such as suspend transmission requests and resume transmission requests, to inform other devices in the system of its memory storage status (e.g., such as when having an actual or anticipated overflow). In one implementation, a suspend transmission request may be implemented by setting a particular bit within a communication from the relay to the source.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09621474&OS=09621474&RS=09621474
owner: Avago Technologies General IP (Singapore) Pte. Ltd
number: 09621474
owner_city: Singapore
owner_country: SG
publication_date: 20151005
---
The present U.S. Utility Patent Application claims priority pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 120 as a continuation of U.S. Utility application Ser. No. 13 930 673 entitled Buffer relay management within single user multiple user multiple access and or MIMO wireless communications filed Jun. 28 2013 pending and scheduled subsequently to be issued as U.S. Pat. No. 9 154 430 on Oct. 6 2015 as indicated in an ISSUE NOTIFICATION mailed from the USPTO on Sep. 16 2015 which claims priority pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 720 770 entitled Relay within single user multiple user multiple access and or MIMO wireless communications filed Oct. 31 2012 U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 766 795 entitled Relay within single user multiple user multiple access and or MIMO wireless communications filed Feb. 20 2013 U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 814 945 entitled Relay within single user multiple user multiple access and or MIMO wireless communications filed Apr. 23 2013 U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 819 238 entitled Relay within single user multiple user multiple access and or MIMO wireless communications filed May 3 2013 U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 822 504 entitled Relay within single user multiple user multiple access and or MIMO wireless communications filed May 13 2013 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 822 510 entitled Buffer relay management within single user multiple user multiple access and or MIMO wireless communications filed May 13 2013 all of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entirety and made part of the present U.S. Utility Patent Application for all purposes.

The present disclosure relates generally to communication systems and more particularly to relaying based memory and buffer management within single user multiple user multiple access and or MIMO wireless communications.

Communication systems support wireless and wire lined communications between wireless and or wire lined communication devices. The systems can range from national and or international cellular telephone systems to the Internet to point to point in home wireless networks and can operate in accordance with one or more communication standards. For example wireless communication systems may operate in accordance with one or more standards including but not limited to IEEE 802.11x where x may be various extensions such as a b n g etc. Bluetooth advanced mobile phone services AMPS digital AMPS global system for mobile communications GSM etc. and or variations thereof.

In some instances wireless communication is made between a transmitter TX and receiver RX using single input single output SISO communication. Another type of wireless communication is single input multiple output SIMO in which a single TX processes data into RF signals that are transmitted to a RX that includes two or more antennae and two or more RX paths.

Yet an alternative type of wireless communication is multiple input single output MISO in which a TX includes two or more transmission paths that each respectively converts a corresponding portion of baseband signals into RF signals which are transmitted via corresponding antennae to a RX. Another type of wireless communication is multiple input multiple output MIMO in which a TX and RX each respectively includes multiple paths such that a TX parallel processes data using a spatial and time encoding function to produce two or more streams of data and a RX receives the multiple RF signals via multiple RX paths that recapture the streams of data utilizing a spatial and time decoding function.

Within such wireless communication systems large distances between devices may cause problems and degrade communication performance. For example fading and other undesired effects might reduce performance and the efficacy of communication between devices as the distance between them increases.

The base stations BSs or access points APs are operably coupled to the network hardware via local area network connections and . The network hardware which may be a router switch bridge modem system controller etc. provides a wide area network connection for the communication system . Each of the base stations or access points has an associated antenna or antenna array to communicate with the wireless communication devices in its area. Typically the wireless communication devices register with a particular base station or access point to receive services from the communication system . For direct connections i.e. point to point communications wireless communication devices communicate directly via an allocated channel.

Any of the various wireless communication devices in this diagram may include a corresponding communication interface to support communications with other devices. Via a communication interface a relay wireless communication device may receive one or more frames from a source wireless communication device. The relay wireless communication device then generates a relayed frame based at least in part on the frame received from the source wireless communication device. Considering one example of relaying by a relay wireless communication device personal computer and base station and or access point may be unable to communicate for any of a number of reasons e.g. fading interference etc. . The relay wireless communication device receives a frame from the personal computer as shown by hop V. The relay wireless communication device then generates and transmits a relayed frame to the base station and or access point as shown by hop V. Note that the reverse operations can alternatively be performed such that relaying from the base station and or access point is made via the relay wireless communication device to the personal computer .

Herein the terms source wireless communication device relay wireless communication device and destination wireless communication device are employed. Any of these wireless communication devices may be implemented as any of the various wireless communication devices or other types of wireless communication devices as well. Sometimes for brevity references of source relay and destination or source device relay device and destination device or other such equivalents are used instead of source wireless communication device relay wireless communication device and destination wireless communication device.

A wireless communication device such as any of the various wireless communication devices may operate a relay. Such a device can include a communication interface configured to receive one or more frames from a source wireless communication device and also to transmit frames to a destination wireless communication device. A relayed frame transmitted to the destination wireless communication device can include all or a portion of a frame received from the source. In a wireless context various processing may be performed to generate the relayed frame such as reprogramming the source and destination address etc.

For example a relay operates to forward or relay information received from a source to a destination. Such a wireless communication device may also include a memory configured to buffer information received from the source via one or more transmissions and to assist in transmitting at least a portion of that first information e.g. such as data or payload therein to the destination via a relayed frame. For example one or more retransmission attempts of information within that signal may be achieved by storing or buffering all or a portion of the first signal within the relay wireless communication device.

Depending upon information stored within the memory the storage status of the memory will change over time. For example if very little information is stored in the memory then the storage status of the memory will indicate a relatively large amount of storage capacity available. Alternatively if a large amount of information is stored in memory then the storage status of the memory will indicate an anticipated or expected storage overflow of the memory e.g. when the memory is approximately or substantially full and there is little available memory for storage as may be defined within any industry accepted tolerance ranges . If the memory is completely filled that the storage status of the memory will indicate an actual storage overflow the memory.

As the amount of information stored within the memory varies as differing numbers of signals and information received from the first wireless communication device are stored in the memory there may be times in which the memory cannot receive and appropriately store additional signals that may be transmitted from the first wireless communication device.

As such the relay wireless communication device may be implemented include a processor configured to generate based on storage status of the memory a suspend transmission request for the first wireless communication device. This suspend transmission request directs the first wireless communication device to abstain from transmitting any signal to the relay wireless communication device for a predetermined period of time. The relay wireless communication device may then transmit the suspend transmission request to the first wireless communication device within a third signal.

In some embodiments the relay wireless communication device transmits a resume transmission request to the first wireless communication device to indicate that the relay wireless communication device is now able to store subsequent signals received from the first wireless communication device. Alternatively other embodiments operate such that the first wireless communication device merely abstains from transmitting additional signals for some specified period of time. It is noted that a resume transmission request may be provided to the first wireless communication device before the expiration of such a specified period of time. In such instances a resume transmission request could be used to override the first wireless communication devices operation of abstaining from transmission for the specified period of time e.g. transmissions could be made before the expiration of that period of time .

Generally various embodiments perform management of a buffer or memory at a relay wireless communication device within the communication system. As may be understood variations and changes of channel conditions e.g. including between a relay wireless communication device and a destination wireless communication device may cause frames to be continuously buffered at the relay wireless communication device. In some instances such as when transmissions from the relay wireless communication device to the destination wireless communication device are unsuccessful a memory or buffer overflow e.g. a queue overflow may occur at the relay wireless communication device.

The source wireless communication device may be unaware of the downstream congestion and it may unfortunately continue to forward frames to the relay wireless communication device. This may then require retransmission of frames from the source wireless communication device to the relay wireless communication device and this will degrade media access control MAC efficiency of these wireless communication devices. In one embodiment a suspend transmission request is made by adding a bit in a MAC header e.g. of a communication from the relay wireless communication device to the source wireless communication device to govern flow control. This is used by the relay wireless communication device to signal to the source wireless communication device to stop or start or restart such as after a timeout of some period of time or based on a resume transmission request transmissions to the relay wireless communication device.

The radio interface allows data to be received from and sent to the radio . For data received from the radio e.g. inbound data the radio interface provides the data to the processing module for further processing and or routing to the output interface . The output interface provides connectivity to one or more output display devices such as a display monitor speakers etc. such that the received data may be displayed. The radio interface also provides data from the processing module to the radio . The processing module may receive the outbound data from one or more input devices such as a keyboard keypad microphone etc. via the input interface or generate the data itself.

Radio includes a host interface a baseband processing module memory radio frequency RF transmitters TXs a transmit receive T R module antennae RF receivers RXs and a local oscillation module . The baseband processing module in combination with operational instructions stored in memory execute digital receiver functions and digital transmitter functions respectively. The digital receiver functions include but are not limited to digital intermediate frequency to baseband conversion demodulation constellation demapping decoding de interleaving fast Fourier transform cyclic prefix removal space and time decoding and or descrambling. The digital transmitter functions as will be described in greater detail with reference to later Figures include but are not limited to scrambling encoding interleaving constellation mapping modulation inverse fast Fourier transform cyclic prefix addition space and time encoding and or digital baseband to IF conversion.

In operation the radio receives outbound data from the host device via the host interface . The baseband processing module receives the outbound data and based on a mode selection signal produces one or more outbound symbol streams . The mode selection signal will indicate a particular mode as are illustrated in the mode selection tables as may be understood by the reader. For example the mode selection signal may indicate a frequency band of 2.4 GHz or 5 GHz a channel bandwidth of 20 or 22 MHz e.g. channels of 20 or 22 MHz width and a maximum bit rate of 54 megabits per second. In other embodiments the channel bandwidth may extend up to 1.28 GHz or wider with supported maximum bit rates extending to 1 gigabit per second or greater. In this general category the mode selection signal will further indicate a particular rate ranging from 1 megabit per second to 54 megabits per second. In addition the mode selection signal will indicate a particular type of modulation which includes but is not limited to Barker Code Modulation BPSK QPSK CCK 16 QAM and or 64 QAM. Also in such mode selection tables a code rate is supplied as well as number of coded bits per subcarrier NBPSC coded bits per OFDM symbol NCBPS data bits per OFDM symbol NDBPS . The mode selection signal may also indicate a particular channelization for the corresponding mode which for the information in one of the mode selection tables with reference to another of the mode selection tables. Note that other types of channels having different bandwidths may be employed in other embodiments.

The baseband processing module based on the mode selection signal produces the one or more outbound symbol streams from the output data . For example if the mode selection signal indicates that a single transmit antenna is being utilized for the particular mode that has been selected the baseband processing module will produce a single outbound symbol stream . Alternatively if the mode selection signal indicates 2 3 or 4 antennae the baseband processing module will produce 2 3 or 4 outbound symbol streams corresponding to the number of antennae from the output data .

Depending on the number of outbound streams produced by the baseband processing module a corresponding number of the RF transmitters will be enabled to convert the outbound symbol streams into outbound RF signals . The transmit receive module receives the outbound RF signals and provides each outbound RF signal to a corresponding antenna .

When the radio is in the receive mode the transmit receive module receives one or more inbound RF signals via the antennae . The T R module provides the inbound RF signals to one or more RF receivers . The RF receiver converts the inbound RF signals into a corresponding number of inbound symbol streams . The number of inbound symbol streams will correspond to the particular mode in which the data was received. The baseband processing module receives the inbound symbol streams and converts them into inbound data which is provided to the host device via the host interface .

In one embodiment of radio it includes a transmitter and a receiver. The transmitter may include a MAC module a PLCP module and a PMD module. The Medium Access Control MAC module which may be implemented with the processing module is operably coupled to convert a MAC Service Data Unit MSDU into a MAC Protocol Data Unit MPDU in accordance with a WLAN protocol. The Physical Layer Convergence Procedure PLCP Module which may be implemented in the baseband processing module is operably coupled to convert the MPDU into a PLCP Protocol Data Unit PPDU in accordance with the WLAN protocol. The Physical Medium Dependent PMD module is operably coupled to convert the PPDU into radio frequency RF signals in accordance with one of the operating modes of the WLAN protocol wherein the operating modes includes multiple input and multiple output combinations.

An embodiment of the Physical Medium Dependent PMD module includes an error protection module a demultiplexing module and direction conversion modules. The error protection module which may be implemented in the baseband processing module is operably coupled to restructure a PPDU PLCP Physical Layer Convergence Procedure Protocol Data Unit to reduce transmission errors producing error protected data. The demultiplexing module is operably coupled to divide the error protected data into error protected data streams The direct conversion modules are operably coupled to convert the error protected data streams into radio frequency RF signals.

As one of average skill in the art will appreciate the wireless communication device of may be implemented using one or more integrated circuits in accordance with any desired configuration or combination or components modules etc. within one or more integrated circuits.

The wireless communication device includes a communication interface configured to receive one or more frames from a source wireless communication device and also to transmit frames to a destination wireless communication device. As described above a relay wireless communication device may transmit a suspend transmission request to a first or source wireless communication device to direct that device to stop transmitting signals to the relay. The relay may also provide a resume transmission request to the first or source wireless communication device when the relay is ready to receive additional signaling from the first or source wireless communication device. For example after the relay has successfully transmitted information within its memory to a second or destination wireless location device then the relay will be able to receive more signaling from the first or source wireless location device.

Such information may be provided to the first or source wireless communication device in terms of storage status of the memory of the relay. Appropriate signaling from the relay to the first or source wireless communication device will ensure that additional signals are not sent from the first or source wireless communication device that may not be appropriately received processed and or stored in the memory of the relay.

In one embodiment the suspend transmission request may be achieved using a relay flow suspend action frame includes at least one bit therein that is set to a particular value. Also a relay flow resume action frame may be employed to inform the first or source wireless communication device that transmission of signals may be resumed to the relay.

In certain instances various wireless communication devices may be implemented to support communications associated with monitoring and or sensing of any of a variety of different conditions parameters etc. Such wireless communication devices may provide such information to another wireless communication device. Such communications may be performed using relaying as described herein.

For example in some instances a wireless communication device may be implemented as a smart meter station SMSTA . A SMSTA may have certain characteristics similar to a wireless station STA yet be also operative to perform communications associated with one or more measurements in accordance with monitoring and or sensing. In certain applications such devices may operate only very rarely. For example when compared to the periods of time in which such a device is in power savings mode e.g. a sleep mode a reduced functionality operational mode a lowered power operational mode etc. the operational periods of time may be miniscule in comparison e.g. only a few percentage of the periods of time in which the device is in such a power savings mode .

An SMSTA may awaken from such a power savings mode only to perform certain operations. For example such a device may awaken from such a power savings mode to perform sensing and or measurement of one or more parameters conditions constraints etc. During such an operational period e.g. in which the device is not in a power savings mode the device may also perform transmission of such information to another wireless communication device e.g. an access point AP another SMSTA a wireless station STA or such an SMSTA or STA operating as an AP etc. .

It is noted that such a device may enter into an operational mode for performing sensing and or monitoring at a frequency that is different than e.g. greater than the frequency at which the device enters into an operational mode for performing transmissions. For example such a device may awaken a certain number of times to make successive respective sensing and or monitoring operations and such data as is acquired during those operations may be stored e.g. in a memory storage component within the device and during a subsequent operational mode dedicated for transmission of the data multiple data portions corresponding to multiple respective sensing and or monitoring operations may be transmitted during that operational mode dedicated for transmission of the data.

In this diagram multiple respective wireless communication devices are implemented to forward information related to monitoring and or sensing to one particular wireless communication device that may be operating as a manager coordinator etc. such as may be implemented by an access point AP or a wireless station STA operating as an AP. Generally speaking such wireless communication devices may be implemented to perform any of a number of data forwarding monitoring and or sensing operations. For example in the context of a building or structure there may be a number of services that are provided to that building or structure including natural gas service electrical service television service Internet service etc. Alternatively different respective monitors and or sensors may be implemented throughout the environment to perform monitoring and or sensing related to parameters not specifically related to services. As some examples motion detection door ajar detection temperature measurement and or other atmospheric and or environmental measurements etc. may be performed by different respective monitors and or sensors implemented in various locations and for various purposes.

Different respective monitors and or sensors may be implemented to provide information related to such monitoring and or sensing functions wirelessly to the manager coordinator wireless communication device. Such information may be provided continuously sporadically intermittently etc. as may be desired in certain applications.

In addition it is noted that such communications between such a manager coordinator wireless communication device of the different respective monitors and or sensors may be cooperative in accordance with such bidirectional communications in that the manager coordinator wireless communication device may direct the respective monitors and or sensors to perform certain related functions at subsequent times.

For any of a number of various reasons any of the various STAs or SMSTAs within a wireless communication system may be unable to communicate with one another or with a manager coordinator wireless communication device e.g. fading interference weak inefficient communication link etc. . While various forms of signal degradation such as fading and interference may degrade or prohibit communications between the devices certain physical features e.g. buildings fences hills etc. may also degrade or prohibit such communications. In such a situation to support communications between any one of the STAs or SMSTAs and another one of them or the manager coordinator wireless communication device a wireless communication device may operate as a relay between the these two devices.

One of these wireless communication devices may be selected using various options. A source may select one of the other devices as a relay. Alternatively a source could broadcast a frame and a first responding device may serve as the relay. In even other situations one of the wireless communication devices could volunteer to serve as relay between a source and destination that cannot acceptably communicate with one another. For example a SMSTA that is unable to communicate acceptably well with the manager coordinator wireless communication device may communicate with the manager coordinator wireless communication device via a relay as shown by the two hops or communication links to and from the relay.

In the above observations PPDU time is based on PLCP Protocol Data Unit PPDU transmission time. ACK time is based on acknowledgement ACK transmission time. SIFS time shown below is based on short interframe space SIFS . The variable Vand V correspond to the respective distances indicated in the diagram and between the communication devices.

Generally speaking a relay wireless communication device or generally referred to as a relay will forward information received from a first wireless communication device onto a second wireless communication device. In some embodiments no more than two hops or communication links are made to forward information from a first to a second wireless communication device via a relay.

Appropriate signaling within the various communications between the originating device the relay device and the destination device ensures appropriate coordination and operation.

Within such communication systems including a source wireless communication device a destination wireless communication device and an intervening or middling relay wireless communication device e.g. source destination and relay there may be instances in which the relay does not have adequate storage capacity to receive additional signals from the source. In such instances the relay may provide a suspend transmission request to the source directing the source to abstain from transmitting any signal to the relay. The source may abstain from transmitting signals to the relay for a specified period of time based on suspend transmission request. Alternatively the source may abstain from transmitting any signals to the relay until the subsequent receipt of a resume transmission request received from the relay.

Appropriate communication and signaling between the relay and source ensure that transmissions are not made from the source to the relay which may be lost or for which the relay does not currently have the capability to receive process and or store therein. For example as the storage capacity of a memory in the relay will vary over time depending upon how many messages may be stored therein there may be instances in which the relay cannot and properly handle signaling from the source. As such appropriate communication and signaling is made between the relay of the source to ensure that the source transmits signals to the relay when the relay can appropriately receive and process them.

The source wireless communication device AP operates to transmit a frame shown as D in the diagram to a destination wireless communication device STA . The intervening or middling relay wireless communication device relay serves to perform the relaying of one or more frames from the AP to the STA . The frame that eventually gets transmitted from the relay to the STA may include the entirety of the frame D transmitted from the AP or it may be a subset of that particular frame e.g. shown as D in the diagram such as the data or payload portion of the frame transmitted from the AP.

When the memory within the relay is at or approaching storage overflow e.g. when a storage status of the memory indicates an actual or anticipated storage overflow the memory the relay transmits a suspend transmission request STR in the diagram to the AP . Based upon the STR the AP may abstain from transmitting signals to the relay for a specified period of time. Alternatively the AP may abstain from transmitting any signals to the relay until the subsequent receipt of a resume transmission request received from the relay .

In an alternative embodiment the AP may initially abstain from transmitting signals to the relay for a specified period of time but the AP may receive a resume transmission request from the relay before the expiration of that time. In such an embodiment the resume transmission request may override the operation based on the specified period of time and the AP may then resume transmitting signals to the relay. Note that the source wireless communication device may be a STA and the destination wireless communication device may be an AP in an alternative implementation.

The amount of available memory within the relay is used to provide an indication of the storage status of the memory. For example as the amount of available memory e.g. that memory which is not currently storing information is relatively small and anticipated storage overflow of the memory may be near. If there is no available memory for storage then an actual storage overflow the memory is imminent or has already occurred. A storage status of the memory may correspond to how much memory is available for storage of information. This storage status may also have other information associated therewith such as historical or recent trending of information e.g. the amount of available memory continuing to decrease or increase remain relatively stable etc. .

Generally speaking information associated with memory storage status within a relay wireless communication device may be used to direct the generation of a suspend transmission request to be provided to a source wireless communication device. The relay will appropriately communicate to the source wireless communication device whether to suspend or resume transmissions to the relay wireless communication device based upon the stored status of the memory within the relay wireless communication device.

In the instance that the relay is unable to forward that data to the STA in the current transmission opportunity TXOP e.g. a period in which the relay may operate to receive information from a source device and forward it to a destination device the relay may transmit a clear to send CTS notifying other wireless communication devices within the system including the STA. Additional storing of signals received from the STA may cause the available storage capacity within buffer or memory of the relay to reduce. As such the relay transmitting the CTS will signal the STA to stop transmitting signals to the relay or signal FLOW STOP.

Any other devices within the system such as STA that receive such a FLOW STOP notification shall not transmit to the relay e.g. the wireless communication device addressed in the receiver address RA for a particular period of time such as which may be specified within a DUR field . Any wireless communication devices within an overlapping basic services set OBSS may ignore the CTS transmission e.g. if the CTS has a PM value of PM 1 therein .

After transmission of the CTS transmissions to the relay stop. Then after some period of time a subsequent CTS may be employed to indicate that transmissions to the relay may resume or signal FLOW RESTART. This indication will then resume normal operation for frame transmissions to the relay e.g. the wireless communication device addressed RA . Again any wireless communication devices within an overlapping basic services set OBSS may ignore the CTS transmission e.g. if the CTS has a PM value of PM 1 therein .

To stop frame transmissions to a relay operative wireless communication device e.g. relay AP that particular relay operative wireless communication device e.g. relay AP may send a CTS to self frame with PM set to 1 DUR 0.

The respective associated wireless communication devices e.g. STAs shall not transmit to the wireless communication device e.g. STA addressed in the receiver address RA for the amount of duration DUR time. The associated wireless communication devices e.g. STAs may update its or their network allocation vector NAV with DUR. Non associated STAs may ignore the DUR field.

To restart frame transmissions to relay operative wireless communication device e.g. relay AP that particular relay operative wireless communication device e.g. relay AP may send a CTS to self frame with PM set to 1 DUR 0.

The respective associated wireless communication devices e.g. STAs shall cancel the flow suspend time and resume normal procedure for frame transmissions to the wireless communication device e.g. STA addressed in the RA. The associated wireless communication devices e.g. STAs may cancel its or their NAV and resume normal channel access for frame transmissions. Non associated STAs may ignore the DUR field. A relay operative wireless communication device e.g. relay AP shall set To DS 0 and From DS 1 when sending the CTS to self frame.

Initially a first or source wireless communication device STA in the diagram transmits data intended for a second or destination wireless communication device STA in the diagram . The relay provides an acknowledgement ACK to STA upon receipt of that data.

In the instance that the relay is unable to forward that data to the STA in the current transmission opportunity TXOP the relay may transmit suspend transmission request FLOW SUSPEND notifying other wireless communication devices within the system including the STAT. Additional storing of signals received from the STA may cause the available storage capacity within buffer or memory of the relay to reduce. As such the relay transmitting the suspend transmission request FLOW SUSPEND will signal the STA to stop transmitting signals to the relay or signal FLOW STOP.

Any other devices within the system such as STA that receive such a FLOW STOP notification shall not transmit to the relay e.g. the wireless communication device addressed in the RA for a particular period of time such as which may be specified within a DUR field . Generally speaking after the relay transmits the suspend transmission request FLOW SUSPEND all data transmissions to the relay will suspended for a period of time e.g. a suspend duration time . All wireless communication devices that receive the suspend transmission request FLOW SUSPEND shall not transmit to the relay e.g. the wireless communication device addressed in the transmitter address TA for a particular period of time such as which may be specified within a suspend duration time .

After transmission of the suspend transmission request FLOW SUSPEND transmissions to the relay stop. Then after some period of time the relay transmits a resume transmission request FLOW RESUME to indicate that transmissions to the relay may resume or signal FLOW RESTART. This indication will then resume normal operation for frame transmissions to the relay e.g. the wireless communication device addressed RA . After the resume transmission request FLOW RESUME all wireless communication devices may resume or continue transmission to the relay e.g. the wireless communication device addressed in the TA .

To suspend frame transmissions to a relay operative wireless communication device e.g. relay AP that a relay operative wireless communication device e.g. relay AP may send a unicast or a broadcast Relay Flow Suspend action frame and Suspend Duration 0. The respective associated wireless communication devices e.g. STAs shall not transmit data frames to the wireless communication device e.g. STA addressed in the Transmitter Address TA for the amount of time indicated in Suspend Duration field. Also the respective associated wireless communication devices e.g. STAs may resume normal procedure for data frame transmissions when the Suspend Duration time has expired.

To restart frame transmissions to the relay operative wireless communication device e.g. relay AP that relay operative wireless communication device e.g. relay AP may send a unicast or a broadcast Relay Flow Resume action frame. The respective associated wireless communication devices e.g. STAs shall cancel the flow suspend time and resume normal procedure for data frame transmissions to the wireless communication device e.g. STA addressed in the TA. The sending of the Relay Flow Resume action frame by the relay wireless communication device is option and may be used by the relay wireless communication device to cancel an existing Suspend Duration.

As also described with respect to other embodiments herein a given wireless communication device e.g. one operating as a relay may service multiple wireless communication devices e.g. STAs at a single time and have limited memory buffer to frames that are not yet forwarded.

Various fields may be employed to effectuate the signaling for use by a relay operative wireless communication device e.g. relay AP a relay STA etc. . Some embodiments operate to use two Relay Action frames as signaling frames for flow suspend and resume e.g. based on a suspend transmission request and a resume transmission request respectively .

Also a bit may be added to a S1G control response frames for use in a signaling frame to suspend transmissions to the relay wireless communication device. For example certain S1G control response frames e.g. target wake time TWT acknowledgement TACK frames Short TWT acknowledgement STACK frames block acknowledgement TWT BAT etc. may include a signaling bit so that such S1G control response frames may be used as signaling frames to suspend transmissions to the relay wireless communication device. As such the relay wireless communication device can then effectively suspend a source wireless communication device from sending any more data frames to the relay wireless communication device with such signaling included within a response frame to that source wireless communication device e.g. in a most recent ACK or any other type of response frame . Either a Relay Flow Resume frame or a modified response frames e.g. TACK STACK BAT etc. can operate as a suspend transmission request for the source wireless communication device to suspend transmission to the wireless communication device e.g. for a predetermined period of time until a resume transmission request is sent etc. .

The method continues by assessing stored status of memory within the relay wireless communication device as shown in the block . For example the relay wireless communication device may operate to perform buffering of all or at least a portion the frame and or other frames within a memory of the relay wireless communication device.

Storage status of the memory within the relay wireless communication device may indicate an actual or anticipated overflow such as when the memory does not have adequate available storage capacity to store additional information which may be provided from the source.

If an actual or anticipated overflow of the memory is determined as within the block then the method operates by generating a suspend transmission request for the source as shown in a block . The suspend transmission request may indicate a period of time e.g. T or a timeout period during which the source is to abstain from transmitting any signals to the relay. The method operates by transmitting the suspend transmission request to the source as shown in a block .

Alternatively if no actual or anticipated overflow of the memory is determined as within the block then the method operates by buffering the frame and or other frames received from the source as shown in a block . The method continues by transmitting a relayed frame that includes at least a portion of the frame received from the source e.g. the data payload etc. thereof to the destination as shown the block .

The method begins by operating a communication interface of a relay wireless communication device to receive a frame from a source wireless communication device as shown in a block . Eventually the relay wireless communication device may operate to transmit a relayed frame that includes at least a portion of the frame e.g. the data payload etc. thereof to a destination wireless communication device as shown in a block .

The method continues by assessing stored status of memory within the relay wireless communication device as shown in the block . For example the relay wireless communication device may operate to perform buffering of the frame or at least a portion thereof within a memory. Storage status of the memory within the relay wireless communication device may indicate an actual or anticipated overflow such as when the memory does not have adequate available storage capacity to store additional information.

If an actual or anticipated overflow of the memory is determined as within the block then the method operates by generating a suspend transmission request for the source wireless communication device as shown in a block . The method operates by transmitting the suspend transmission request to the source wireless communication device as shown in a block . After some period of time or when appropriate conditions are present e.g. such as when there is adequate storage capacity within the memory of the relay wireless communication device to accept and store subsequent received signals frames etc. and or portions thereof the method operates by generating a resume transmission request as shown in a block .

The method operates by transmitting the resume transmission request to the source wireless communication device as shown in a block .

Alternatively if no actual or anticipated overflow of the memory is determined as within the block then the method operates by buffering the frame as shown in a block . The method continues by transmitting the relayed frame that includes at least a portion of the frame received from the source wireless communication device e.g. the data payload etc. thereof to the destination wireless communication device as shown the block .

It is noted that the various operations and functions described within various methods herein may be performed within a wireless communication device e.g. such as by the baseband processing module the processing module as described with reference to and or other components therein. Generally a communication interface and processor in a wireless communication device can perform such operations.

Examples of some components may include one of more baseband processing modules one or more media access control MAC layers one or more physical layers PHYs and or other components etc. For example such a baseband processing module sometimes in conjunction with a radio analog front end AFE etc. can generate such signals frames etc. as described herein as well as perform various operations described herein and or their respective equivalents.

In some embodiments such a baseband processing module and or a processing module which may be implemented in the same device or separate devices can perform such processing to generate signals for transmission to another wireless communication device using any number of radios and antennae. In some embodiments such processing is performed cooperatively by a processor in a first device and another processor within a second device. In other embodiments such processing is performed wholly by a processor within one device.

The present invention has been described herein with reference to at least one embodiment. Such embodiment s of the present invention have been described with the aid of structural components illustrating physical and or logical components and with the aid of method steps illustrating the performance of specified functions and relationships thereof. The boundaries and sequence of these functional building blocks and method steps have been arbitrarily defined herein for convenience of description. Alternate boundaries and sequences can be defined so long as the specified functions and relationships are appropriately performed. Any such alternate boundaries or sequences are thus within the scope and spirit of the claims that follow. Further the boundaries of these functional building blocks have been arbitrarily defined for convenience of description. Alternate boundaries could be defined as long as the certain significant functions are appropriately performed. Similarly flow diagram blocks may also have been arbitrarily defined herein to illustrate certain significant functionality. To the extent used the flow diagram block boundaries and sequence could have been defined otherwise and still perform the certain significant functionality. Such alternate definitions of both functional building blocks and flow diagram blocks and sequences are thus within the scope and spirit of the claimed invention. One of average skill in the art will also recognize that the functional building blocks and other illustrative blocks modules and components herein can be implemented as illustrated or by discrete components application specific integrated circuits processors executing appropriate software and the like or any combination thereof.

As may also be used herein the terms processing module processing circuit processing circuitry processing unit and or processor may be a single processing device or a plurality of processing devices. Such a processing device may be a microprocessor micro controller digital signal processor microcomputer central processing unit field programmable gate array programmable logic device state machine logic circuitry analog circuitry digital circuitry and or any device that manipulates signals analog and or digital based on hard coding of the circuitry and or operational instructions. The processing module module processing circuit and or processing unit may be or further include memory and or an integrated memory element which may be a single memory device a plurality of memory devices and or embedded circuitry of another processing module module processing circuit and or processing unit. Such a memory device may be a read only memory random access memory volatile memory non volatile memory static memory dynamic memory flash memory cache memory and or any device that stores digital information. Note that if the processing module module processing circuit and or processing unit includes more than one processing device the processing devices may be centrally located e.g. directly coupled together via a wired and or wireless bus structure or may be distributedly located e.g. cloud computing via indirect coupling via a local area network and or a wide area network . Further note that if the processing module module processing circuit and or processing unit implements one or more of its functions via a state machine analog circuitry digital circuitry and or logic circuitry the memory and or memory element storing the corresponding operational instructions may be embedded within or external to the circuitry comprising the state machine analog circuitry digital circuitry and or logic circuitry. Still further note that the memory element may store and the processing module module processing circuit and or processing unit executes hard coded and or operational instructions corresponding to at least some of the steps and or functions illustrated in one or more of the Figures. Such a memory device or memory element can be included in an article of manufacture.

As may also be used herein the term s configured to operably coupled to coupled to and or coupling includes direct coupling between items and or indirect coupling between items via an intervening item e.g. an item includes but is not limited to a component an element a circuit and or a module where for an example of indirect coupling the intervening item does not modify the information of a signal but may adjust its current level voltage level and or power level. As may further be used herein inferred coupling i.e. where one element is coupled to another element by inference includes direct and indirect coupling between two items in the same manner as coupled to . As may even further be used herein the term configured to operable to coupled to or operably coupled to indicates that an item includes one or more of power connections input s output s etc. to perform when activated one or more its corresponding functions and may further include inferred coupling to one or more other items. As may still further be used herein the term associated with includes direct and or indirect coupling of separate items and or one item being embedded within another item.

Unless specifically stated to the contra signals to from and or between elements in a figure of any of the figures presented herein may be analog or digital continuous time or discrete time and single ended or differential. For instance if a signal path is shown as a single ended path it also represents a differential signal path. Similarly if a signal path is shown as a differential path it also represents a single ended signal path. While one or more particular architectures are described herein other architectures can likewise be implemented that use one or more data buses not expressly shown direct connectivity between elements and or indirect coupling between other elements as recognized by one of average skill in the art.

The term module is used in the description of one or more of the embodiments. A module includes a processing module a functional block hardware and or software stored on memory for performing one or more functions as may be described herein. Note that if the module is implemented via hardware the hardware may operate independently and or in conjunction with software and or firmware. As also used herein a module may contain one or more sub modules each of which may be one or more modules.

While particular combinations of various functions and features of the one or more embodiments have been expressly described herein other combinations of these features and functions are likewise possible. The present disclosure of an invention is not limited by the particular examples disclosed herein and expressly incorporates these other combinations.

