---

title: Substituted annulated triazines and use thereof
abstract: The present application relates to novel substituted fused pyrimidines and triazines, to processes for their preparation, to their use alone or in combinations for the treatment and/or prophylaxis of diseases, and to their use for producing medicaments for the treatment and/or prophylaxis of diseases, in particular for the treatment and/or prophylaxis of cardiovascular disorders.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09505786&OS=09505786&RS=09505786
owner: BAYER INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY GMBH
number: 09505786
owner_city: Monheim
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20150612
---
This application is a divisional application of U.S. application Ser. No. 14 371 046 filed Jul. 8 2014 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety which is a national stage application under 35 U.S.C. 371 of PCT App. No. PCT EP2013 050381 filed Jan. 10 2013 which claims priority to German Application 102012200349.5 filed Jan. 11 2012.

The present application relates to novel substituted fused pyrimidines and triazines to processes for their preparation to their use alone or in combinations for the treatment and or prophylaxis of diseases and to their use for producing medicaments for the treatment and or prophylaxis of diseases in particular for the treatment and or prophylaxis of cardiovascular disorders.

One of the most important cellular transmission systems in mammalian cells is cyclic guanosine monophosphate cGMP . Together with nitrogen monoxide NO which is released from the endothelium and transmits hormonal and mechanical signals it forms the NO cGMP system. Guanylate cyclases catalyse the biosynthesis of cGMP from guanosine triphosphate GTP . The representatives of this family known to date can be divided into two groups either according to structural features or according to the type of ligands the particulate guanylate cyclases which can be stimulated by natriuretic peptides and the soluble guanylate cyclases which can be stimulated by NO. The soluble guanylate cyclases consist of two subunits and very probably contain one haem per heterodimer which is part of the regulatory site. This is of central importance for the activation mechanism NO can bind to the iron atom of haem and thus markedly increase the activity of the enzyme. Haem free preparations cannot by contrast be stimulated by NO. Carbon monoxide CO is also able to bind to the central iron atom of haem but the stimulation by CO is much less than that by NO.

By forming cGMP and owing to the resulting regulation of phosphodiesterases ion channels and protein kinases guanylate cyclase plays an important role in various physiological processes in particular in the relaxation and proliferation of smooth muscle cells in platelet aggregation and platelet adhesion and in neuronal signal transmission and also in disorders which are based on a disruption of the abovementioned processes. Under pathophysiological conditions the NO cGMP system can be suppressed which can lead for example to hypertension platelet activation increased cell proliferation endothelial dysfunction arteriosclerosis angina pectoris heart failure myocardial infarction thromboses stroke and sexual dysfunction.

Owing to the expected high efficiency and low level of side effects a possible NO independent treatment for such disorders by targeting the influence of the cGMP signal pathway in organisms is a promising approach.

Hitherto for the therapeutic stimulation of the soluble guanylate cyclase use has exclusively been made of compounds such as organic nitrates whose effect is based on NO. The latter is formed by bioconversion and activates soluble guanylate cyclase by attack at the central iron atom of haem. In addition to the side effects the development of tolerance is one of the crucial disadvantages of this mode of treatment.

Some years ago a number of substances have been described which stimulate soluble guanylate cyclase directly i.e. without prior release of NO such as for example 3 5 hydroxymethyl 2 furyl 1 benzylindazole YC 1 Wu et al. 84 1994 4226 Miilsch et al. 120 1997 681 . The more recent stimulators of soluble guanylate cyclase include among others BAY 41 2272 BAY 41 8543 and riociguat BAY 63 2521 see for example Stasch J. P. et al. 2006 5 755 768 Stasch J. P. et al. 2009 4 853 865. Stasch J. P. et al. 2011 123 2263 2273 . Interestingly some of these sGC stimulators for example YC 1 or BAY 41 2272 also exhibit PDE5 inhibitory action in addition to direct guanylate cyclase stimulation. In order to maximize the cGMP pathway it is pharmacologically desirable to stimulate the synthesis of cGMP and simultaneously to inhibit degradation via PDE 5. This dual principle is particularly advantageous in pharmacological terms see for example Oudout et al. Eur. Urol. 2011 60 1020 1026 .

The dual principle is fulfilled in the context of the present invention when the inventive compounds exhibit an effect on recombinant guanylate cyclase reporter cell lines according to the study in B 2 as the minimal effective concentration MEC of 3 M and exhibit inhibition of human phosphodiesterase 5 PDE5 according to the study in B 6 as IC50

Phosphodiesterase 5 PDE5 is the name of one of the enzymes which cleave the phosphoric ester bond in cGMP forming 5 guanosine monophosphate 5 GMP . In humans phosphodiesterase 5 occurs predominantly in the smooth musculature of the corpus cavernosum penis and the pulmonary arteries. Blockage of cGMP degradation by inhibition of PDE5 with for example sildenafil vardenafil or tadalafil leads to increased signals of the relaxation signalling pathway and specifically to increased blood supply in the corpus cavernosum penis and lower pressure in the pulmonary blood vessels. They are used for treatment of erectile dysfunction and of pulmonary arterial hypertension. As well as PDE5 there are further exclusively cGMP cleaving phosphodiesterases Stasch J. P. et al. 2011 .

As stimulators of soluble guanylate cyclase WO 00 06568 and WO 00 06569 disclose fused pyrazole derivatives and WO 03 095451 discloses carbamate substituted 3 pyrimidinylpyrazolopyridines. 3 Pyrimidinylpyrazolopyridines with phenylamide substituents are described in E. M. Becker et al. 1 13 2001. WO 2004 009590 describes pyrazolopyridines with substituted 4 aminopyrimidines for treatment of CNS disorders. WO 2010 065275 and WO 2011 149921 disclose substituted pyrrolo and dihydropyridopyrimidines as sGC activators. As sGC stimulators WO 2012 004259 describes fused aminopyrimidines and WO 2012 004258 WO 2012 143510 and WO 2012 152629 fused pyrimidines and triazines. WO 2012 28647 discloses pyrazolopyridines with various azaheterocycles for treatment of cardiovascular disorders.

It was an object of the present invention to provide novel substances which act as stimulators of soluble guanylate cyclase and as stimulators of soluble guanylate cyclase and phosphodiesterase 5 inhibitors dual principle and have an identical or improved therapeutic profile compared to the compounds known from the prior art for example with respect to their in vivo properties for example their pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic characteristics and or their metabolic profile and or their dose activity relationship.

Compounds according to the invention are the compounds of the formula I and their salts solvates and solvates of the salts the compounds comprised by formula I of the formulae mentioned below and their salts solvates and solvates of the salts and the compounds comprised by formula I mentioned below as working examples and their salts solvates and solvates of the salts if the compounds comprised by formula I mentioned below are not already salts solvates and solvates of the salts.

Preferred salts in the context of the present invention are physiologically acceptable salts of the compounds according to the invention. Also encompassed are salts which are not themselves suitable for pharmaceutical applications but can be used for example for isolation or purification of the compounds according to the invention.

Physiologically acceptable salts of the compounds according to the invention include acid addition salts of mineral acids carboxylic acids and sulphonic acids for example salts of hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid sulphuric acid phosphoric acid methanesulphonic acid ethanesulphonic acid toluenesulphonic acid benzenesulphonic acid naphthalenedisulphonic acid formic acid acetic acid trifluoroacetic acid propionic acid lactic acid tartaric acid malic acid citric acid fumaric acid maleic acid and benzoic acid.

Physiologically acceptable salts of the compounds according to the invention also include salts of conventional bases by way of example and with preference alkali metal salts e.g. sodium and potassium salts alkaline earth metal salts e.g. calcium and magnesium salts and ammonium salts derived from ammonia or organic amines having 1 to 16 carbon atoms by way of example and with preference ethylamine diethylamine triethylamine ethyldiisopropylamine monoethanolamine diethanolamine triethanolamine dicyclohexylamine dimethylaminoethanol procaine dibenzylamine N methylmorpholine arginine lysine ethylenediamine and N methylpiperidine.

In the context of the invention solvates refer to those forms of the compounds according to the invention which in the solid or liquid state form a complex by coordination with solvent molecules. Hydrates are a specific form of solvates in which the coordination is with water. Preferred solvates in the context of the present invention are hydrates.

The compounds according to the invention may depending on their structure exist in different stereoisomeric forms i.e. in the form of configurational isomers or else optionally as conformational isomers enantiomers and or diastereomers including those in the case of atropisomers . The present invention therefore encompasses the enantiomers and diastereomers and the respective mixtures thereof. The stereoisomerically uniform constituents can be isolated from such mixtures of enantiomers and or diastereomers in a known manner chromatography processes are preferably used for this in particular HPLC chromatography on an achiral or chiral phase.

Where the compounds according to the invention can occur in tautomeric forms the present invention encompasses all the tautomeric forms.

The present invention also encompasses all suitable isotopic variants of the compounds according to the invention. An isotopic variant of a compound according to the invention is understood here to mean a compound in which at least one atom within the compound according to the invention has been exchanged for another atom of the same atomic number but with a different atomic mass than the atomic mass which usually or predominantly occurs in nature. Examples of isotopes which can be incorporated into a compound according to the invention are those of hydrogen carbon nitrogen oxygen phosphorus sulphur fluorine chlorine bromine and iodine such as H deuterium H tritium C C N O O P P S S S S F Cl Br I I I and I. Particular isotopic variants of a compound according to the invention especially those in which one or more radioactive isotopes have been incorporated may be beneficial for example for the examination of the mechanism of action or of the active ingredient distribution in the body due to comparatively easy preparability and detectability especially compounds labelled with H or C isotopes are suitable for this purpose. Furthermore the incorporation of isotopes for example of deuterium can lead to particular therapeutic advantages as a consequence of greater metabolic stability of the compound for example an extension of the half life in the body or a reduction in the active dose required such modifications of the compounds according to the invention may therefore in some cases also constitute a preferred embodiment of the present invention. Isotopic variants of the compounds according to the invention can be prepared by the processes known to those skilled in the art for example by the methods described below and the procedures described in the working examples by using corresponding isotopic modifications of the respective reagents and or starting compounds.

Moreover the present invention also encompasses prodrugs of the compounds according to the invention. Here the term prodrugs refers to compounds which for their part can be biologically active or inactive but are converted for example metabolically or hydrolytically into compounds according to the invention during their dwell time in the body.

In the context of the present invention the substituents unless specified otherwise are each defined as follows 

Alkyl in the context of the invention is a straight chain or branched alkyl radical having the number of carbon atoms specified in each case. The following may be mentioned by way of example and by way of preference methyl ethyl n propyl isopropyl n butyl isobutyl 1 methylpropyl tert butyl n pentyl isopentyl 1 ethylpropyl 1 methylbutyl 2 methylbutyl 3 methylbutyl n hexyl 1 methylpentyl 2 methylpentyl 3 methylpentyl 4 methylpentyl 3 3 dimethylbutyl 1 ethylbutyl and 2 ethylbutyl.

Alkanediyl in the context of the invention is a straight chain or branched divalent alkyl radical having 1 to 4 carbon atoms. The following may be mentioned by way of example and by way of preference methylene ethane 1 2 diyl ethane 1 1 diyl propane 1 3 diyl propane 1 1 diyl propane 1 2 diyl propane 2 2 diyl butane 1 4 diyl butane 1 2 diyl butane 1 3 diyl and butane 2 3 diyl.

Cycloalkyl or carbocycle in the context of the invention is a monocyclic saturated alkyl radical having the number of carbon atoms specified in each case. The following may be mentioned by way of example and by way of preference cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl and cycloheptyl.

Alkenyl in the context of the invention is a straight chain or branched alkenyl radical having 2 to 4 carbon atoms and a double bond. The following may be mentioned by way of example and by way of preference vinyl allyl isopropenyl and n but 2 en 1 yl.

Alkynyl in the context of the invention is an alkynyl radical having 2 to 4 carbon atoms and a triple bond. The following may be mentioned by way of example and by way of preference ethynyl propynyl and butynyl.

Alkoxy in the context of the invention is a straight chain or branched alkoxy radical having 1 to 6 or 1 to 4 carbon atoms. The following may be mentioned by way of example methoxy ethoxy n propoxy isopropoxy 1 methylpropoxy n butoxy isobutoxy tert butoxy n pentoxy isopentoxy 1 ethylpropoxy 1 methylbutoxy 2 methylbutoxy 3 methylbutoxy and n hexoxy. Preference is given to a straight chain or branched alkoxy radical having 1 to 4 carbon atoms. The following may be mentioned by way of example and by way of preference methoxy ethoxy n propoxy isopropoxy 1 methylpropoxy n butoxy isobutoxy tert butoxy.

Alkoxycarbonyl in the context of the invention is a straight chain or branched alkoxy radical having 1 to 4 carbon atoms and a carbonyl group attached to the oxygen. The following may be mentioned by way of example and by way of preference methoxycarbonyl ethoxycarbonyl n propoxycarbonyl isopropoxycarbonyl and tert butoxycarbonyl.

Monoalkylamino in the context of the invention is an amino group having a straight chain or branched alkyl substituent having 1 to 6 carbon atoms. The following may be mentioned by way of example and by way of preference methylamino ethylamino n propylamino isopropylamino and tert butylamino.

Dialkylamino in the context of the invention is an amino group having two identical or different straight chain or branched alkyl substituents each having 1 to 6 carbon atoms. Preferred examples include N N dimethylamino N N diethylamino N ethyl N methylamino N methyl N n propylamino N isopropyl N n propylamino N tert butyl N methylamino N ethyl N n pentylamino and N n hexyl N methylamino.

Heterocyclyl or heterocycle in the context of the invention is a saturated heterocycle which has a total of 4 to 7 ring atoms contains one or two ring heteroatoms from the group consisting of N O S SO and or SOand is attached via a ring carbon atom. The following may be mentioned by way of example azetidinyl oxetanyl pyrrolidinyl pyrazolidinyl tetrahydrofuranyl piperidinyl piperazinyl tetrahydropyranyl morpholinyl thiomorpholinyl and dioxidothiomorpholinyl. Preference is given to azetidinyl oxetanyl pyrrolidinyl tetrahydrofuranyl piperidinyl tetrahydropyranyl and morpholinyl.

5 or 6 membered heteroaryl which is attached via carbon in the context of the invention is a monocyclic aromatic heterocycle heteroaromatic which has a total of 5 or 6 ring atoms contains up to three identical or different ring heteroatoms from the group consisting of N O and or S and is attached via a ring carbon atom. The following may be mentioned by way of example and by way of preference furyl pyrrolyl thienyl pyrazolyl imidazolyl thiazolyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl isothiazolyl triazolyl oxadiazolyl thiadiazolyl pyridyl pyrimidinyl pyridazinyl pyrazinyl and triazinyl. Preference is given to pyrazol 3 yl pyrazol 5 yl pyrazol 5 yl thiazolyl oxadiazolyl thiadiazolyl pyridyl and pyrimidinyl.

5 or 6 membered heteroaryl in the context of the invention is a monocyclic aromatic heterocycle heteroaromatic which has a total of 5 or 6 ring atoms contains up to three identical or different ring heteroatoms from the group consisting of N O and or S and is attached via a ring carbon atom or optionally via a ring nitrogen atom. The following may be mentioned by way of example and by way of preference furyl pyrrolyl thienyl pyrazolyl imidazolyl thiazolyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl isothiazolyl triazolyl oxadiazolyl thiadiazolyl pyridyl pyrimidinyl pyridazinyl pyrazinyl and triazinyl. Preference is given to pyridyl pyrimidinyl pyridazinyl pyrazinyl and triazinyl.

Halogen in the context of the invention is fluorine chlorine bromine and iodine. Preference is given to bromine and iodine.

An oxo group in the context of the invention is an oxygen atom attached via a double bond to a carbon atom.

A thiooxo group in the context of the invention is a sulphur atom attached via a double bond to a carbon atom.

In the formula of the group that L or Rmay represent the end point of the line marked by the symbol or does not represent a carbon atom or a CHgroup but is part of the bond to the respective atom to which L or Ris attached.

In the context of the present invention the term treatment or treating includes inhibition retardation checking alleviating attenuating restricting reducing suppressing repelling or healing of a disease a condition a disorder an injury or a health problem or the development the course or the progression of such states and or the symptoms of such states. The term therapy is understood here to be synonymous with the term treatment .

The terms prevention prophylaxis or preclusion are used synonymously in the context of the present invention and refer to the avoidance or reduction of the risk of contracting experiencing suffering from or having a disease a condition a disorder an injury or a health problem or a development or progression of such states and or the symptoms of such states.

The treatment or prevention of a disease a condition a disorder an injury or a health problem may be partial or complete.

Particular preference is given in the context of the present invention to compounds of the formula I in which

Particular preference is given in the context of the present invention to compounds of the formula I in which

Particular preference is given in the context of the present invention to compounds of the formula I in which

Particular preference is given in the context of the present invention to compounds of the formula I in which

In the context of the present invention particular preference is also given to compounds of the formula I in which

In the context of the present invention particular preference is also given to compounds of the formula I in which

In the context of the present invention particular preference is also given to compounds of the formula I in which

In the context of the present invention preference is given to the compounds of the following structural formulae 

In the context of the present invention particular preference is given to the compounds of the following structural formulae 

In the context of the present invention very particular preference is given to the compounds of the following structural formulae 

In the context of the present invention very particular preference is given to the compounds of the following structural formulae 

In the context of the present invention preference is also given to compounds of the formula I in which

In the context of the present invention preference is also given to compounds of the formula I in which

In the context of the present invention preference is also given to compounds of the formula I in which

In the context of the present invention preference is also given to compounds of the formula I in which Rrepresents H and to the salts solvates and solvates of the salts thereof.

In the context of the present invention preference is also given to compounds of the formula I in which Rrepresents fluorine and to the salts solvates and solvates of the salts thereof.

In the context of the present invention preference is also given to compounds of the formula I in which

In the context of the present invention preference is also given to compounds of the formula I in which Rrepresents 2 fluorobenzyl and to the salts solvates and solvates of the salts thereof.

In the context of the present invention preference is also given to compounds of the formula I in which Rrepresents H and to the salts solvates and solvates of the salts thereof.

In the context of the present invention preference is also given to compounds of the formula I in which Rrepresents H and to the salts solvates and solvates of the salts thereof.

In the context of the present invention preference is also given to compounds of the formula I in which A represents N or CH and to the salts solvates and solvates of the salts thereof.

In the context of the present invention preference is also given to compounds of the formula I in which A represents CH and to the salts solvates and solvates of the salts thereof.

In the context of the present invention preference is also given to compounds of the formula I in which A represents N and to the salts solvates and solvates of the salts thereof.

In the context of the present invention particular preference is also given to compounds of the formula I in which

In the context of the present invention particular preference is also given to compounds of the formula I in which

In the context of the present invention particular preference is also given to compounds of the formula I in which

In the context of the present invention particular preference is also given to compounds of the formula I in which

In the context of the present invention particular preference is also given to compounds of the formula I in which

In the context of the present invention particular preference is also given to compounds of the formula I in which

If radicals in the compounds according to the invention are substituted the radicals may be mono or polysubstituted unless specified otherwise. In the context of the present invention all radicals which occur more than once are defined independently of one another. Substitution by one two or three identical or different substituents is preferred.

The individual radical definitions specified in the particular combinations or preferred combinations of radicals are independently of the particular combinations of the radicals specified also replaced as desired by radical definitions of other combinations.

Particular preference is given to combinations of two or more of the preferred ranges mentioned above.

The invention furthermore provides a process for preparing the compounds of the formula I according to the invention characterized in that a compound of the formula II 

The compounds of the formulae I A I B I C I D I E I F and I G together form the group of compounds according to the invention of the formula I .

Inert solvents for the process step II III IV are for example alcohols such as methanol ethanol n propanol isopropanol n butanol or tert butanol ethers such as diethyl ether dioxane dimethoxyethane tetrahydrofuran glycol dimethyl ether or diethylene glycol dimethyl ether hydrocarbons such as benzene xylene toluene hexane cyclohexane or mineral oil fractions or other solvents such as dimethylformamide DMF dimethyl sulphoxide DMSO N N dimethylpropyleneurea DMPU N methylpyrrolidone NMP pyridine acetonitrile sulpholane or else water. It is also possible to use mixtures of the solvents mentioned. Preference is given to tert butanol or methanol.

Suitable bases for the process step II III IV are alkali metal hydroxides such as for example lithium hydroxide sodium hydroxide or potassium hydroxide alkali metal carbonates such as lithium carbonate sodium carbonate potassium carbonate or caesium carbonate alkali metal bicarbonates such as sodium bicarbonate or potassium bicarbonate alkali metal alkoxides such as sodium methoxide or potassium methoxide sodium ethoxide or potassium ethoxide or potassium tert butoxide or organic amines such as triethylamine diisopropylethylamine pyridine 1 8 diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undec 7 ene DBU or 1 5 diazabicyclo 4.3.0 non 5 ene DBN . Preference is given to potassium tert butoxide or sodium methoxide.

The reaction II III IV is generally carried out in a temperature range from 20 C. to 150 C. preferably at from 75 C. to 100 C. optionally in a microwave. The conversion can be carried out at atmospheric elevated or reduced pressure for example from 0.5 to 5 bar . The reaction is generally carried out at atmospheric pressure.

Suitable halogen sources in the conversion IV V are for example diiodomethane a mixture of caesium iodide iodine and copper I iodide or copper II bromide.

Process step IV V in the case of diiodomethane as the halogen source is carried out with a molar ratio of 10 to 30 mol of isopentyl nitrite and 10 to 30 mol of the iodine equivalent based on 1 mol of the compound of the formula IV .

Process step IV V is carried out with or without solvent. Suitable solvents are all organic solvents which are inert under the reaction conditions. The preferred solvent is dimethoxyethane.

The reaction IV V is generally carried out in a temperature range from 20 C. to 100 C. preferably within the range from 50 C. to 100 C. optionally in a microwave. The conversion can be carried out at atmospheric elevated or reduced pressure for example in the range from 0.5 to 5 bar . The reaction is generally carried out at atmospheric pressure.

Inert solvents for the process step V I A are alcohols such as methanol ethanol n propanol isopropanol n butanol tert butanol or 1 2 ethanediol ethers such as diethyl ether dioxane tetrahydrofuran glycol dimethyl ether or diethylene glycol dimethyl ether or other solvents such as dimethylformamide DMF dimethyl sulphoxide DMSO N N dimethylpropyleneurea DMPU N methylpyrrolidone NMP pyridine acetonitrile or else water. It is also possible to use mixtures of the solvents mentioned. Preference is given to DMF.

The reduction V I A is carried out with hydrogen in conjunction with transition metal catalysts for example palladium 10 on activated carbon Raney nickel or palladium hydroxide.

The reaction V I A is generally carried out in a temperature range from 20 C. to 50 C. The conversion can be carried out at atmospheric or elevated pressure for example in the range from 0.5 to 5 bar . The reaction is generally carried out at atmospheric pressure.

Inert solvents for the process step II VI VII are for example alcohols such as methanol ethanol n propanol isopropanol n butanol or tert butanol ethers such as diethyl ether dioxane dimethoxyethane tetrahydrofuran glycol dimethyl ether or diethylene glycol dimethyl ether hydrocarbons such as benzene xylene toluene hexane cyclohexane or mineral oil fractions or other solvents such as dimethylformamide DMF dimethyl sulphoxide DMSO N N dimethylpropyleneurea DMPU N methylpyrrolidone NMP pyridine or acetonitrile. It is also possible to use mixtures of the solvents mentioned. Preference is given to methanol or ethanol.

Suitable bases for the process step II VI VII are alkali metal hydroxides such as for example lithium hydroxide sodium hydroxide or potassium hydroxide alkali metal carbonates such as lithium carbonate sodium carbonate potassium carbonate or caesium carbonate alkali metal bicarbonates such as sodium bicarbonate or potassium bicarbonate alkali metal alkoxides such as sodium methoxide or potassium methoxide sodium ethoxide or potassium ethoxide or potassium tert butoxide or organic amines such as triethylamine diisopropylethylamine pyridine 1 8 diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undec 7 ene DBU or 1 5 diazabicyclo 4.3.0 non 5 ene DBN . Preference is given to sodium methoxide or sodium ethoxide.

The reaction II VI VII is generally carried out in a temperature range from 50 C. to 120 C. preferably from 50 C. to 100 C. optionally in a microwave. The conversion can be performed at atmospheric or elevated pressure for example in the range from 0.5 to 5 bar . The reaction is generally carried out at atmospheric pressure.

The conversions VII VIII and XII XIII can be carried out in a solvent which is inert under the reaction conditions or without solvent. The preferred solvent is sulpholane.

The reactions VII VIII and XII XIII are generally carried out in a temperature range from 70 C. to 150 C. preferably from 80 C. to 130 C. optionally in a microwave. The conversion can be performed at atmospheric or elevated pressure for example in the range from 0.5 to 5 bar . The reaction is generally carried out at atmospheric pressure.

Especially preferably the conversion XII XIII is carried out without solvent in a temperature range from 0 C. to 50 C. at atmospheric pressure.

Process step VIII IX is carried out by reaction with sodium azide with intermediate formation of the azide derivatives which are directly reduced further to give the corresponding amines. Inert solvents for the azide formation are for example ethers such as diethyl ether dioxane dimethoxyethane tetrahydrofuran glycol dimethyl ether or diethylene glycol dimethyl ether hydrocarbons such as benzene xylene toluene hexane cyclohexane or mineral oil fractions or other solvents such as dimethylformamide DMF dimethyl sulphoxide DMSO N N dimethylpropyleneurea DMPU N methylpyrrolidone NMP pyridine acetonitrile or sulpholane. It is also possible to use mixtures of the solvents mentioned. Preference is given to DMF.

The azide formation is generally carried out in a temperature range from 50 C. to 100 C. preferably from 60 C. to 80 C. at atmospheric pressure.

The reduction is carried out in an inert solvent such as for example alcohols such as methanol ethanol n propanol isopropanol n butanol tert butanol or 1 2 ethanediol ethers such as diethyl ether dioxane tetrahydrofuran glycol dimethyl ether or diethylene glycol dimethyl ether or other solvents such as dimethylformamide DMF dimethyl sulphoxide DMSO N N dimethylpropyleneurea DMPU N methylpyrrolidone NMP pyridine acetonitrile or else water. It is also possible to use mixtures of the solvents mentioned. Preference is given to DMF.

The reduction is carried out at from 10 C. to 30 C. using hydrogen in combination with transition metal catalysts such as for example palladium 10 on activated carbon platinum dioxide or palladium hydroxide or without hydrogen using tin II chloride and hydrochloric acid.

Alternatively the conversion VIII IX can also be carried out in one step analogously to process step XIII XIV .

Process step XIII XIV is carried out in a solvent which is inert under the reaction conditions. Suitable solvents are for example ethers such as diethyl ether dioxane tetrahydrofuran glycol dimethyl ether or diethylene glycol dimethyl ether or other solvents such as dimethylformamide DMF dimethyl sulphoxide DMSO N N dimethylpropyleneurea DMPU N methylpyrrolidone NMP pyridine acetonitrile or else water. It is also possible to use mixtures of the solvents mentioned. Preference is given to acetonitrile.

The reaction XIII XIV is generally carried out in a temperature range from 20 C. to 100 C. preferably from 40 C. to 70 C. optionally in a microwave. The conversion can be performed at atmospheric or elevated pressure for example in the range from 0.5 to 5 bar . The reaction is generally carried out at atmospheric pressure.

The cyclizations IX I B and XIV I C are carried out in a solvent which is inert under the reaction conditions for example alcohols such as methanol ethanol n propanol isopropanol n butanol or tert butanol ethers such as diethyl ether dioxane dimethoxyethane tetrahydrofuran THF glycol dimethyl ether or diethylene glycol dimethyl ether hydrocarbons such as benzene xylene toluene hexane cyclohexane or mineral oil fractions or other solvents such as dimethylformamide DMF dimethyl sulphoxide DMSO N N dimethylpropyleneurea DMPU N methylpyrrolidone NMP pyridine acetonitrile or sulpholane. It is also possible to use mixtures of the solvents mentioned. Preference is given to THF.

Suitable bases for the process steps IX I B and XIV I C are alkali metal hydroxides such as for example lithium hydroxide sodium hydroxide or potassium hydroxide alkali metal carbonates such as lithium carbonate sodium carbonate potassium carbonate or caesium carbonate alkali metal bicarbonates such as sodium bicarbonate or potassium bicarbonate alkali metal alkoxides such as sodium methoxide or potassium methoxide sodium ethoxide or potassium ethoxide or potassium tert butoxide or organic amines such as triethylamine diisopropylethylamine pyridine 1 8 diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undec 7 ene DBU or 1 5 diazabicyclo 4.3.0 non 5 ene DBN . Preference is given to potassium tert butoxide.

The reactions IX I B and XIV I C are generally carried out in a temperature range from 0 C. to 50 C. preferably from 10 C. to 30 C. optionally in a microwave. The reaction can be performed at atmospheric or elevated pressure for example in the range from 0.5 to 5 bar . The reaction is generally carried out at atmospheric pressure.

Preferably the cyclization to I B or I C occurs directly during the reduction of the azide to the corresponding amine IX or during the reaction XIII XIV without addition of further reagents.

In the processes B and C the conversions VIII IX I B and XIII XIV I C respectively are preferably carried out without isolation of the intermediates.

Inert solvents for the process step X XI XII are for example alcohols such as methanol ethanol n propanol isopropanol n butanol or tert butanol ethers such as diethyl ether dioxane dimethoxyethane tetrahydrofuran glycol dimethyl ether or diethylene glycol dimethyl ether hydrocarbons such as benzene xylene toluene hexane cyclohexane or mineral oil fractions or other solvents such as dimethylformamide DMF dimethyl sulphoxide DMSO N N dimethylpropyleneurea DMPU N methylpyrrolidone NMP pyridine or acetonitrile. It is also possible to use mixtures of the solvents mentioned. Preference is given to methanol or ethanol.

The reaction X XI XII is generally carried out in a temperature range from 50 C. to 120 C. preferably from 50 C. to 100 C. optionally in a microwave. The reaction can be performed at atmospheric or elevated pressure for example in the range from 0.5 to 5 bar . The reaction is generally carried out at atmospheric pressure.

Inert solvents for the process step II X are for example alcohols such as methanol ethanol n propanol isopropanol n butanol or tert butanol ethers such as diethyl ether dioxane dimethoxyethane tetrahydrofuran glycol dimethyl ether or diethylene glycol dimethyl ether hydrocarbons such as benzene xylene toluene hexane cyclohexane or mineral oil fractions or other solvents such as dimethylformamide DMF dimethyl sulphoxide DMSO N N dimethylpropyleneurea DMPU N methylpyrrolidone NMP pyridine or acetonitrile. It is also possible to use mixtures of the solvents mentioned. Preference is given to ethanol.

Suitable bases for the process step II X are alkali metal hydroxides such as for example lithium hydroxide sodium hydroxide or potassium hydroxide alkali metal carbonates such as lithium carbonate sodium carbonate potassium carbonate or caesium carbonate alkali metal bicarbonates such as sodium bicarbonate or potassium bicarbonate alkali metal alkoxides such as sodium methoxide or potassium methoxide sodium ethoxide or potassium ethoxide or potassium tert butoxide or organic amines such as triethylamine diisopropylethylamine pyridine 1 8 diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undec 7 ene DBU or 1 5 diazabicyclo 4.3.0 non 5 ene DBN . Preference is given to triethylamine.

The reaction II X is generally carried out in a temperature range of from 0 C. to 60 C. preferably from 10 C. to 30 C. The reaction can be performed at atmospheric or elevated pressure for example in the range from 0.5 to 5 bar . The reaction is generally carried out at atmospheric pressure.

Process step V XV A or XV B or XV C or XV D I D is carried out in a solvent which is inert under the reaction conditions. Suitable solvents are for example ethers such as diethyl ether dioxane tetrahydrofuran glycol dimethyl ether or diethylene glycol dimethyl ether or other solvents such as dimethylformamide DMF dimethyl sulphoxide DMSO N N dimethylpropyleneurea DMPU N methylpyrrolidone NMP pyridine acetonitrile or else water. It is also possible to use mixtures of the solvents mentioned. Preference is given to acetonitrile dioxane and tetrahydrofuran.

The reaction V XV A or XV B or XV C or XV D I D can optionally be carried out in the presence of a suitable palladium and or copper catalyst. A suitable palladium catalyst is for example palladium on activated carbon palladium II acetate tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 bis triphenylphosphine palladium II chloride bis acetonitrile palladium II chloride and 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II and the corresponding dichloromethane complex optionally in conjunction with additional phosphane ligands for example 2 biphenyl di tert butylphosphine dicyclohexyl 2 4 6 tris 1 methylethyl biphenyl 2 yl phosphane XPHOS bis 2 phenylphosphinophenyl ether DPEphos or 4 5 bis diphenylphosphino 9 9 dimethylxanthene Xantphos cf. for example Hassan J. et al. 102 1359 1469 2002 . Suitable copper catalysts are for example copper bronze copper I oxide copper I iodide or copper I bromide.

The conversion V XV A or XV B or XV C or XV D I D is optionally carried out in the presence of a suitable base. Suitable bases for this conversion are the customary inorganic or organic bases. These preferably include alkali metal hydroxides for example lithium hydroxide sodium hydroxide or potassium hydroxide alkali metal or alkaline earth metal carbonates such as lithium carbonate sodium carbonate potassium carbonate calcium carbonate or caesium carbonate alkali metal alkoxides such as sodium methoxide or potassium methoxide sodium ethoxide or potassium ethoxide or sodium or potassium tert butoxide alkali metal hydrides such as sodium hydride or potassium hydride amides such as sodium amide lithium bis trimethylsilyl amide sodium bis trimethylsilyl amide or potassium bis trimethylsilyl amide or lithium diisopropylamide or organic amines such as triethylamine N methylmorpholine N methylpiperidine N N diisopropylethylamine pyridine 1 5 diazabicyclo 4.3.0 non 5 ene DBN 1 8 diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undec 7 ene DBU or 1 4 diazabicyclo 2.2.2 octane DABCO . Preference is given to using diisopropylamine.

The reaction V XV A or XV B or XV C or XV D I D is generally carried out in a temperature range from 0 C. to 200 C. preferably from 10 C. to 150 C. The reaction can be carried out at atmospheric elevated or reduced pressure for example from 0.5 to 5 bar . The reaction is generally carried out at atmospheric pressure.

If the Rradical is unsaturated it can subsequently be fully or partly saturated. The reduction is effected with hydrogen in conjunction with transition metal catalysts for example palladium 10 on activated carbon Raney nickel or palladium hydroxide. The reduction is generally carried out in a temperature range from 20 C. to 50 C. The reaction can be performed at atmospheric or elevated pressure for example in the range from 1 to 150 bar . In general 1 to 3 bar are employed.

Process step V R Y XVII is carried out in a solvent which is inert under the reaction conditions. Inert solvents for the process step V R Y XVII are for example halohydrocarbons such as dichloromethane trichloromethane tetrachloromethane trichloroethylene or chlorobenzene ethers such as diethyl ether dioxane tetrahydrofuran glycol dimethyl ether or diethylene glycol dimethyl ether hydrocarbons such as benzene toluene xylene hexane cyclohexane or mineral oil fractions or other solvents such as acetone methyl ethyl ketone ethyl acetate acetonitrile N N dimethylformamide N N dimethylacetamide dimethyl sulphoxide N N dimethylpropyleneurea DMPU N methylpyrrolidone NMP or pyridine. It is also possible to use mixtures of the solvents mentioned. Preference is given to using dimethylformamide or N methylpyrrolidone NMP .

The conversion V R Y XVII is carried out in the presence of a suitable base. Suitable bases for this conversion are the customary inorganic or organic bases. These preferably include alkali metal hydroxides for example lithium hydroxide sodium hydroxide or potassium hydroxide alkali metal or alkaline earth metal carbonates such as lithium carbonate sodium carbonate potassium carbonate calcium carbonate or caesium carbonate alkali metal alkoxides such as sodium methoxide or potassium methoxide sodium ethoxide or potassium ethoxide or sodium carbonate or caesium carbonates alkali metal hydrides such as sodium hydride or potassium hydride amides such as sodium amide lithium bis trimethylsilyl amide sodium bis trimethylsilyl amide or potassium bis trimethylsilyl amide or lithium diisopropylamide or organic amines such as triethylamine N methylmorpholine N methylpiperidine N N diisopropylethylamine pyridine 1 5 diazabicyclo 4.3.0 non 5 ene DBN 1 8 diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undec 7 ene DBU or 1 4 diazabicyclo 2.2.2 octane DABCO . Preference is given to using caesium carbonate.

The reaction V R Y XVII is generally carried out in a temperature range from 20 C. to 200 C. preferably at from 10 C. to 100 C. The conversion can be carried out at atmospheric elevated or reduced pressure for example from 0.5 to 5 bar . The reaction is generally carried out at atmospheric pressure.

Process step XVII XV A or XV B or XV C or XV D XVIII is carried out in a solvent which is inert under the reaction conditions. Suitable solvents are for example ethers such as diethyl ether dioxane tetrahydrofuran glycol dimethyl ether or diethylene glycol dimethyl ether or other solvents such as dimethylformamide DMF dimethyl sulphoxide DMSO N N dimethylpropyleneurea DMPU N methylpyrrolidone NMP toluene acetonitrile or else water. It is also possible to use mixtures of the solvents mentioned. Preference is given to dioxane and tetrahydrofuran.

The conversion XVII XV A or XV B or XV C or XV D XVIII can optionally be carried out in the presence of a suitable palladium and or copper catalyst. A suitable palladium catalyst is for example palladium on activated carbon palladium II acetate tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 bis triphenylphosphine palladium II chloride bis acetonitrile palladium II chloride and 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II and the corresponding dichloromethane complex optionally in conjunction with additional phosphane ligands for example 2 biphenyl di tert butylphosphine dicyclohexyl 2 4 6 tris 1 methylethyl biphenyl 2 yl phosphane XPHOS bis 2 phenylphosphinophenyl ether DPEphos or 4 5 bis diphenylphosphino 9 9 dimethylxanthene Xantphos cf. for example Hassan J. et al. 102 1359 1469 2002 . Suitable copper catalysts are for example copper bronze copper I oxide copper I iodide or copper I bromide.

The conversion XVII XV A or XV B or XV C or XV D XVIII is optionally carried out in the presence of a suitable base. Suitable bases for this conversion are the customary inorganic or organic bases. These preferably include alkali metal or alkaline earth metal carbonates such as lithium carbonate sodium carbonate potassium carbonate calcium carbonate or caesium carbonate or organic amines such as triethylamine N methylmorpholine N methylpiperidine N N diisopropylethylamine pyridine 1 5 diazabicyclo 4.3.0 non 5 ene DBN 1 8 diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undec 7 ene DBU or 1 4 diazabicyclo 2.2.2 octane DABCO . Preference is given to using triethylamine or sodium bicarbonate.

The reaction XVII XV A or XV B or XV C or XV D XVIII is generally carried out in a temperature range from 0 C. to 200 C. preferably from 10 C. to 150 C. The conversion can be carried out at atmospheric elevated or reduced pressure for example from 0.5 to 5 bar . The reaction is generally carried out at atmospheric pressure.

Process step XVIII I D in the case of PMB is carried out by reaction with a mixture of trifluoromethanesulphonic anhydride and trifluoroacetic acid or trifluoroacetic acid and trifluoromethanesulphonic acid or cerium IV ammonium nitrate in suitable solvents such as acetonitrile DMF or NMP and in the case of SEM as protective group by reaction initially with trifluoroacetic acid in suitable solvents such as dichloromethane and then with aqueous mineral acid in suitable solvents such as ethanol THF or dioxane.

The reaction XVIII I D is generally carried out in a temperature range from 0 C. to 200 C. preferably at from 10 C. to 150 C. optionally in a microwave. The conversion can be carried out at atmospheric elevated or reduced pressure for example from 0.5 to 20 bar . The reaction is generally carried out at from 0.5 to 10 bar.

Process step XVIII XIX XX is carried out in a solvent which is inert under the reaction conditions. Suitable solvents are for example ethers such as diethyl ether dioxane dimethoxyethane tetrahydrofuran glycol dimethyl ether or diethylene glycol dimethyl ether hydrocarbons such as benzene xylene toluene hexane cyclohexane or mineral oil fractions or other solvents such as dimethylformamide DMF dimethyl sulphoxide DMSO N N dimethylpropyleneurea DMPU N methylpyrrolidone NMP pyridine acetonitrile or sulpholane. It is also possible to use mixtures of the solvents mentioned. Preference is given to DMF.

The conversion XVIII XIX XX is optionally carried out in the presence of a suitable base. Suitable bases for this conversion are the customary inorganic or organic bases. These preferably include alkali metal or alkaline earth metal carbonates such as lithium carbonate sodium carbonate potassium carbonate calcium carbonate or caesium carbonate alkali metal alkoxides such as sodium methoxide or potassium methoxide sodium ethoxide or potassium ethoxide or sodium or potassium tert butoxide alkali metal hydrides such as sodium hydride or potassium hydride amides such as sodium amide lithium bis trimethylsilyl amide sodium bis trimethylsilyl amide or potassium bis trimethylsilyl amide or lithium diisopropylamide or organic amines such as triethylamine N methylmorpholine N methylpiperidine N N diisopropylethylamine pyridine 1 5 diazabicyclo 4.3.0 non 5 ene DBN 1 8 diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undec 7 ene DBU or 1 4 diazabicyclo 2.2.2 octane DABCO . Preference is given to using potassium tert butoxide.

The reaction XVIII XIX XX is generally carried out in a temperature range from 0 C. to 200 C. preferably from 20 C. to 100 C. The conversion can be carried out at atmospheric elevated or reduced pressure for example from 0.5 to 5 bar . The reaction is generally carried out at atmospheric pressure.

Process step V copper cyanide XXI is carried out in a solvent which is inert under the reaction conditions. Suitable solvents are for example ethers such as diethyl ether dioxane dimethoxyethane tetrahydrofuran glycol dimethyl ether or diethylene glycol dimethyl ether hydrocarbons such as benzene xylene toluene hexane cyclohexane or mineral oil fractions or other solvents such as dimethylformamide DMF dimethyl sulphoxide DMSO N N dimethylpropyleneurea DMPU N methylpyrrolidone NMP pyridine acetonitrile or sulpholane. It is also possible to use mixtures of the solvents mentioned. Preference is given to DMSO.

The reaction V copper cyanide XXI is generally carried out in a temperature range of from 0 C. to 200 C. preferably from 40 C. to 180 C. The conversion can be carried out at atmospheric elevated or reduced pressure for example from 0.5 to 5 bar . The reaction is generally carried out at atmospheric pressure.

The reduction XXI I F is carried out with hydrogen in conjunction with transition metal catalysts for example palladium 10 on activated carbon Raney nickel or palladium hydroxide.

The reaction XXI I F is generally carried out in a temperature range from 20 C. to 100 C. The conversion can be carried out at atmospheric or elevated pressure for example in the range from 0.5 to 100 bar . In general 1 to 3 bar are employed.

Process step I F XXII I G is carried out in a solvent which is inert under the reaction conditions. Suitable solvents are for example halogenated hydrocarbons such as dichloromethane trichloromethane carbon tetrachloride trichloroethylene or chlorobenzene ethers such as diethyl ether dioxane dimethoxyethane tetrahydrofuran glycol dimethyl ether or diethylene glycol dimethyl ether hydrocarbons such as benzene xylene toluene hexane cyclohexane or mineral oil fractions or other solvents such as dimethylformamide DMF dimethyl sulphoxide DMSO N N dimethylpropyleneurea DMPU N methylpyrrolidone NMP pyridine acetonitrile or sulpholane. It is also possible to use mixtures of the solvents mentioned. Preference is given to DMF or a mixture of DMF and dichloromethane.

The conversion I F XXII I G is optionally carried out in the presence of a suitable base. Suitable bases for this conversion are the customary inorganic or organic bases. These preferably include alkali metal or alkaline earth metal carbonates such as lithium carbonate sodium carbonate potassium carbonate calcium carbonate or caesium carbonate alkali metal alkoxides such as sodium methoxide or potassium methoxide sodium ethoxide or potassium ethoxide or sodium or potassium tert butoxide alkali metal hydrides such as sodium hydride or potassium hydride amides such as sodium amide lithium bis trimethylsilyl amide sodium bis trimethylsilyl amide or potassium bis trimethylsilyl amide or lithium diisopropylamide or organic amines such as triethylamine N methylmorpholine N methylpiperidine N N diisopropylethylamine pyridine 4 dimethylaminopyridine 1 5 diazabicyclo 4.3.0 non 5 ene DBN 1 8 diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undec 7 ene DBU or 1 4 diazabicyclo 2.2.2 octane DABCO . Preference is given to using N N diisopropylethylamine.

The reaction I F XXII I G is generally carried out in a temperature range from 0 C. to 200 C. preferably from 10 C. to 50 C. The conversion can be carried out at atmospheric elevated or reduced pressure for example from 0.5 to 5 bar . The reaction is generally carried out at atmospheric pressure.

The preparation processes described can be illustrated by way of example by the following synthesis schemes Schemes 1 to 8 

In an alternative process the preparation of the compounds of the formula I according to the invention can take place by reversing the order of the reaction steps using protective group chemistry as shown by way of example in the synthesis scheme below Scheme 9 

Further compounds according to the invention can optionally also be prepared by conversions of functional groups of individual substituents especially those listed for L and R proceeding from compounds of the formulae I V VIII and XIII obtained by the above processes. These conversions are performed by customary methods known to those skilled in the art and include for example reactions such as nucleophilic and electrophilic substitutions oxidations reductions hydrogenations transition metal catalysed coupling reactions Grignard reactions eliminations alkylation acylation amination esterification ester cleavage etherification ether cleavage formation of carbonamides and introduction and removal of temporary protective groups.

Preferred conversions are illustrated in an exemplary manner by the synthesis schemes below Schemes 10 13 .

The compounds of the formula II are known from the literature see for example WO 2011 147809 WO 03 095451 Example 6A or can be prepared analogously to processes known from the literature.

The compounds of the formulae VI XI XV A XV B XV C XV D XVI XIX and XXII are commercially available or known from the literature or can be prepared in analogy to procedures known from the literature.

The compounds according to the invention act as potent stimulators of soluble guanylate cyclase and inhibitors of phosphodiesterase 5 have useful pharmacological properties and have an improved therapeutic profile for example with respect to the in vivo properties thereof and or the pharmacokinetic characteristics and or metabolic profile thereof. They are therefore suitable for the treatment and or prophylaxis of diseases in humans and animals

The compounds according to the invention cause vasorelaxation and inhibition of platelet aggregation and lead to a decrease in blood pressure and to a rise in coronary blood flow. These effects are mediated by a direct stimulation of soluble guanylate cyclase and an intracellular rise in cGMP. In addition the compounds according to the invention enhance the action of substances which increase the cGMP level for example EDRF endothelium derived relaxing factor NO donors protoporphyrin IX arachidonic acid or phenylhydrazine derivatives.

The compounds according to the invention are suitable for the treatment and or prophylaxis of cardiovascular pulmonary thromboembolic and fibrotic disorders.

Accordingly the compounds according to the invention can be used in medicaments for the treatment and or prophylaxis of cardiovascular disorders such as for example hypertension resistant hypertension acute and chronic heart failure coronary heart disease stable and unstable angina pectoris peripheral and cardiac vascular disorders arrhythmias atrial and ventricular arrhythmias and impaired conduction such as for example atrioventricular blocks degrees I III AB block supraventricular tachyarrhythmia atrial fibrillation atrial flutter ventricular fibrillation ventricular flutter ventricular tachyarrhythmia Torsade de pointes tachycardia atrial and ventricular extrasystoles AV junctional extrasystoles sick sinus syndrome syncopes AV nodal re entry tachycardia Wolff Parkinson White syndrome of acute coronary syndrome ACS autoimmune cardiac disorders pericarditis endocarditis valvolitis aortitis cardiomyopathies shock such as cardiogenic shock septic shock and anaphylactic shock aneurysms boxer cardiomyopathy premature ventricular contraction PVC for the treatment and or prophylaxis of thromboembolic disorders and ischaemias such as myocardial ischaemia myocardial infarction stroke cardiac hypertrophy transient and ischaemic attacks preeclampsia inflammatory cardiovascular disorders spasms of the coronary arteries and peripheral arteries oedema formation such as for example pulmonary oedema cerebral oedema renal oedema or oedema caused by heart failure peripheral circulatory disturbances reperfusion damage arterial and venous thromboses microalbuminuria myocardial insufficiency endothelial dysfunction to prevent restenoses for example after thrombolysis therapies percutaneous transluminal angioplasties PTA transluminal coronary angioplasties PTCA heart transplants and bypass operations and also micro and macrovascular damage vasculitis increased levels of fibrinogen and of low density lipoprotein LDL and increased concentrations of plasminogen activator inhibitor 1 PAI 1 and also for the treatment and or prophylaxis of erectile dysfunction and female sexual dysfunction.

In the context of the present invention the term heart failure encompasses both acute and chronic forms of heart failure and also more specific or related types of disease such as acute decompensated heart failure right heart failure left heart failure global failure ischaemic cardiomyopathy dilated cardiomyopathy hypertrophic cardiomyopathy idiopathic cardiomyopathy congenital heart defects heart failure associated with heart valve defects mitral valve stenosis mitral valve insufficiency aortic valve stenosis aortic valve insufficiency tricuspid valve stenosis tricuspid valve insufficiency pulmonary valve stenosis pulmonary valve insufficiency combined heart valve defects myocardial inflammation myocarditis chronic myocarditis acute myocarditis viral myocarditis diabetic heart failure alcoholic cardiomyopathy cardiac storage disorders diastolic heart failure and systolic heart failure and acute phases of worsening of existing chronic heart failure worsening heart failure .

In addition the compounds according to the invention can also be used for the treatment and or prophylaxis of arteriosclerosis impaired lipid metabolism hypolipoproteinaemias dyslipidaemias hypertriglyceridaemias hyperlipidaemias hypercholesterolaemias abetalipoproteinaemia sitosterolaemia xanthomatosis Tangier disease adiposity obesity and of combined hyperlipidaemias and metabolic syndrome.

The compounds according to the invention can additionally be used for the treatment and or prophylaxis of primary and secondary Raynaud s phenomenon of microcirculation impairments claudication peripheral and autonomic neuropathies diabetic microangiopathies diabetic retinopathy diabetic ulcers on the extremities gangrene CREST syndrome erythematosis onychomycosis rheumatic disorders and for promoting wound healing. The compounds according to the invention are also suitable for treatment of muscular dystrophy such as Becker Kiener muscular dystrophy BMD and Duchenne muscular dystrophy DMD .

The compounds according to the invention are furthermore suitable for treating urological disorders such as for example benign prostate syndrome BPS benign prostate hyperplasia BPH benign prostate enlargement BPE bladder outlet obstruction BOO lower urinary tract syndromes LUTS including Feline Urological Syndrome FUS disorders of the urogenital system including neurogenic overactive bladder OAB and IC incontinence UI such as for example mixed urinary incontinence urge urinary incontinence stress urinary incontinence or overflow urinary incontinence MUI UUI SUI OUI pelvic pain benign and malignant disorders of the organs of the male and female urogenital system.

The compounds according to the invention are furthermore suitable for the treatment and or prophylaxis of kidney disorders in particular of acute and chronic renal insufficiency and acute and chronic renal failure. In the context of the present invention the term renal insufficiency comprises both acute and chronic manifestations thereof as well as underlying or related kidney diseases such as renal hypoperfusion intradialytic hypotension obstructive uropathy glomerulopathies glomerulonephritis acute glomerulonephritis glomerulosclerosis tubulointerstitial diseases nephropathic diseases such as primary and congenital kidney disease nephritis immunological kidney diseases such as kidney graft rejection and immunocomplex induced kidney diseases nephropathy induced by toxic substances nephropathy induced by contrast agents diabetic and non diabetic nephropathy pyelonephritis renal cysts nephrosclerosis hypertensive nephrosclerosis and nephrotic syndrome which can be characterized diagnostically for example by abnormally reduced creatinine and or water excretion abnormally raised blood concentrations of urea nitrogen potassium and or creatinine altered activity of renal enzymes such as for example glutamyl synthetase altered urine osmolarity or urine volume increased microalbuminuria macroalbuminuria lesions on glomerulae and arterioles tubular dilatation hyperphosphataemia and or need for dialysis. The present invention also encompasses the use of the compounds according to the invention for the treatment and or prophylaxis of sequelae of renal insufficiency for example pulmonary oedema heart failure uraemia anaemia electrolyte disturbances for example hyperkalaemia hyponatraemia and disturbances in bone and carbohydrate metabolism.

Furthermore the compounds according to the invention are also suitable for the treatment and or prophylaxis of asthmatic disorders pulmonary arterial hypertension PAH and other forms of pulmonary hypertension PH including left heart disease HIV sickle cell anaemia thromboembolisms CTEPH sarcoidosis COPD or pulmonary fibrosis associated pulmonary hypertension chronic obstructive pulmonary disease COPD acute respiratory distress syndrome ARDS acute lung injury ALI alpha 1 antitrypsin deficiency AATD pulmonary fibrosis pulmonary emphysema for example pulmonary emphysema induced by cigarette smoke and cystic fibrosis CF . In addition the compounds mentioned can be used as bronchodilators.

The compounds described in the present invention are also active compounds for control of central nervous system disorders characterized by disturbances of the NO cGMP system. They are suitable in particular for improving perception concentration learning or memory after cognitive impairments like those occurring in particular in association with situations diseases syndromes such as mild cognitive impairment age associated learning and memory impairments age associated memory losses vascular dementia craniocerebral trauma stroke dementia occurring after strokes post stroke dementia post traumatic craniocerebral trauma general concentration impairments concentration impairments in children with learning and memory problems Alzheimer s disease Lewy body dementia dementia with degeneration of the frontal lobes including Pick s syndrome Parkinson s disease progressive nuclear palsy dementia with corticobasal degeneration amyolateral sclerosis ALS Huntington s disease demyelinisation multiple sclerosis thalamic degeneration Creutzfeld Jacob dementia HIV dementia schizophrenia with dementia or Korsakoff s psychosis. They are also suitable for the treatment and or prophylaxis of central nervous system disorders such as states of anxiety tension and depression CNS related sexual dysfunctions and sleep disturbances and for controlling pathological disturbances of the intake of food stimulants and addictive substances.

Furthermore the compounds according to the invention are also suitable for regulating cerebral blood flow and are thus effective agents for control of migraine. They are also suitable for prophylaxis and control of sequelae of cerebral infarction cerebral apoplexy such as stroke cerebral ischaemia and craniocerebral trauma. The compounds according to the invention can likewise be employed for controlling states of pain and tinnitus.

In addition the compounds according to the invention have antiinflammatory action and can therefore be used as antiinflammatory agents for the treatment and or prophylaxis of sepsis SIRS multiple organ failure MODS MOF inflammatory disorders of the kidney chronic intestinal inflammations IBD Crohn s disease UC pancreatitis peritonitis rheumatoid disorders inflammatory skin diseases and inflammatory eye diseases.

Furthermore the compounds according to the invention can also be used for the treatment and or prophylaxis of autoimmune diseases.

The compounds according to the invention are furthermore suitable for the treatment and or prophylaxis of fibrotic disorders of the internal organs such as for example the lung the heart the kidney the bone marrow and in particular the liver and also dermatological fibroses and fibrotic eye disorders. In the context of the present invention the term fibrotic disorders includes in particular the following terms hepatic fibrosis cirrhosis of the liver pulmonary fibrosis endomyocardial fibrosis nephropathy glomerulonephritis interstitial renal fibrosis fibrotic damage resulting from diabetes bone marrow fibrosis and similar fibrotic disorders scleroderma morphea keloids hypertrophic scarring also following surgical procedures naevi diabetic retinopathy proliferative vitroretinopathy and disorders of the connective tissue for example sarcoidosis .

The compounds according to the invention are furthermore suitable for controlling postoperative scarring for example as a result of glaucoma operations.

The compounds according to the invention can also be used cosmetically for ageing and keratinized skin.

Moreover the compounds according to the invention are suitable for the treatment and or prophylaxis of hepatitis neoplasms osteoporosis glaucoma and gastroparesis.

The present invention further provides for the use of the compounds according to the invention for the treatment and or prophylaxis of disorders in particular the disorders mentioned above.

The present invention further provides for the use of the compounds according to the invention for the treatment and or prophylaxis of heart failure angina pectoris hypertension pulmonary hypertension ischaemias vascular disorders renal insufficiency thromboembolic disorders fibrotic disorders and arteriosclerosis.

The present invention further provides the compounds according to the invention for use in a method for treatment and or prophylaxis of heart failure angina pectoris hypertension pulmonary hypertension ischaemias vascular disorders renal insufficiency thromboembolic disorders fibrotic disorders and arteriosclerosis.

The present invention further provides for the use of the compounds according to the invention for production of a medicament for the treatment and or prophylaxis of disorders especially of the aforementioned disorders.

The present invention further provides for the use of the compounds according to the invention for producing a medicament for the treatment and or prophylaxis of heart failure angina pectoris hypertension pulmonary hypertension ischaemias vascular disorders renal insufficiency thromboembolic disorders fibrotic disorders and arteriosclerosis.

The present invention further provides a method for the treatment and or prophylaxis of disorders in particular the disorders mentioned above using an effective amount of at least one of the compounds according to the invention.

The present invention further provides a method for the treatment and or prophylaxis of heart failure angina pectoris hypertension pulmonary hypertension ischaemias vascular disorders renal insufficiency thromboembolic disorders fibrotic disorders and arteriosclerosis using an effective amount of at least one of the compounds according to the invention.

The compounds according to the invention can be employed alone or if required in combination with other active compounds. The present invention further provides medicaments comprising at least one of the compounds according to the invention and one or more further active compounds especially for the treatment and or prophylaxis of the aforementioned disorders. Preferred examples of suitable active compound combinations include 

Antithrombotic agents are preferably understood to mean compounds from the group of the platelet aggregation inhibitors the anticoagulants or the profibrinolytic substances.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a platelet aggregation inhibitor by way of example and with preference aspirin clopidogrel ticlopidin or dipyridamole.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a thrombin inhibitor by way of example and with preference ximelagatran dabigatran melagatran bivalirudin or clexane.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a GPIIb IIIa antagonist such as by way of example and with preference tirofiban or abciximab.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the inventive compounds are administered in combination with a factor Xa inhibitor preferred examples being rivaroxaban DU 176b apixaban otamixaban fidexaban razaxaban fondaparinux idraparinux PMD 3112 YM 150 KFA 1982 EMD 503982 MCM 17 MLN 1021 DX 9065a DPC 906 JTV 803 SSR 126512 or SSR 128428.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with heparin or with a low molecular weight LMW heparin derivative.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a vitamin K antagonist by way of example and with preference coumarin.

Hypotensive agents are preferably understood to mean compounds from the group of calcium antagonists angiotensin AII antagonists ACE inhibitors endothelin antagonists renin inhibitors alpha receptor blockers beta receptor blockers mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists and the diuretics.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a calcium antagonist by way of example and with preference nifedipine amlodipine verapamil or diltiazem.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an alpha 1 receptor blocker by way of example and with preference prazosin.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a beta receptor blocker by way of example and with preference propranolol atenolol timolol pindolol alprenolol oxprenolol penbutolol bupranolol metipranolol nadolol mepindolol carazalol sotalol metoprolol betaxolol celiprolol bisoprolol carteolol esmolol labetalol carvedilol adaprolol landiolol nebivolol epanolol or bucindolol.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an angiotensin AII antagonist by way of example and with preference losartan candesartan valsartan telmisartan or embusartan.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an ACE inhibitor by way of example and with preference enalapril captopril lisinopril ramipril delapril fosinopril quinopril perindopril or trandopril.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an endothelin antagonist by way of example and with preference bosentan darusentan ambrisentan or sitaxsentan.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a renin inhibitor by way of example and with preference aliskiren SPP 600 or SPP 800.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist by way of example and with preference spironolactone or eplerenone.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a loop diuretic for example furosemide torasemide bumetanide and piretanide with potassium sparing diuretics for example amiloride and triamterene with aldosterone antagonists for example spironolactone potassium canrenoate and eplerenone and also thiazide diuretics for example hydrochlorothiazide chlorthalidone xipamide and indapamide.

Lipid metabolism modifiers are preferably understood to mean compounds from the group of the CETP inhibitors thyroid receptor agonists cholesterol synthesis inhibitors such as HMG CoA reductase inhibitors or squalene synthesis inhibitors the ACAT inhibitors MTP inhibitors PPAR alpha PPAR gamma and or PPAR delta agonists cholesterol absorption inhibitors polymeric bile acid adsorbents bile acid reabsorption inhibitors lipase inhibitors and the lipoprotein a antagonists.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a CETP inhibitor by way of example and with preference dalcetrapib BAY 60 5521 anacetrapib or CETP vaccine CETi 1 .

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a thyroid receptor agonist by way of example and with preference D thyroxin 3 5 3 triiodothyronin T3 CGS 23425 or axitirome CGS 26214 .

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an HMG CoA reductase inhibitor from the class of statins by way of example and with preference lovastatin simvastatin pravastatin fluvastatin atorvastatin rosuvastatin or pitavastatin.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a squalene synthesis inhibitor by way of example and with preference BMS 188494 or TAK 475.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an ACAT inhibitor by way of example and with preference avasimibe melinamide pactimibe eflucimibe or SMP 797.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an MTP inhibitor by way of example and with preference implitapide BMS 201038 R 103757 or JTT 130.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a PPAR gamma agonist by way of example and with preference pioglitazone or rosiglitazone.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a PPAR delta agonist by way of example and with preference GW 501516 or BAY 68 5042.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a cholesterol absorption inhibitor by way of example and with preference ezetimibe tiqueside or pamaqueside.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a lipase inhibitor a preferred example being orlistat.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a polymeric bile acid adsorbent by way of example and with preference cholestyramine colestipol colesolvam CholestaGel or colestimide.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a bile acid reabsorption inhibitor by way of example and with preference ASBT IBAT inhibitors for example AZD 7806 S 8921 AK 105 BARI 1741 SC 435 or SC 635.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a lipoprotein a antagonist by way of example and with preference gemcabene calcium CI 1027 or nicotinic acid.

The present invention further provides medicaments which comprise at least one compound according to the invention typically together with one or more inert non toxic pharmaceutically suitable auxiliaries and for the use thereof for the aforementioned purposes.

The compounds according to the invention may act systemically and or locally. For this purpose they can be administered in a suitable manner for example by the oral parenteral pulmonal nasal sublingual lingual buccal rectal dermal transdermal conjunctival or otic route or as an implant or stent.

The compounds according to the invention can be administered in administration forms suitable for these administration routes.

Administration forms which function according to the prior art release the compounds according to the invention rapidly and or in a modified manner and contain the compounds according to the invention in crystalline and or amorphized and or dissolved form are suitable for oral administration such as e.g. tablets non coated or coated tablets for example with enteric coatings or coatings that dissolve in a delayed manner or are insoluble and control the release of the compound according to the invention tablets or films oblates films lyophilisates or capsules which disintegrate rapidly in the oral cavity for example hard or soft gelatine capsules sugar coated tablets granules pellets powders emulsions suspensions aerosols or solutions.

Parenteral administration can bypass an absorption step e.g. intravenously intraarterially intracardially intraspinally or intralumbally or include an absorption e.g. intramuscularly subcutaneously intracutaneously percutaneously or intraperitoneally . Suitable administration forms for parenteral administration include injection and infusion formulations in the form of solutions suspensions emulsions lyophilisates or sterile powders.

For the other administration routes suitable examples are inhalable medicament forms including powder inhalers nebulizers nasal drops solutions or sprays tablets films oblates or capsules for lingual sublingual or buccal administration suppositories ear or eye preparations vaginal capsules aqueous suspensions lotions shaking mixtures lipophilic suspensions ointments creams transdermal therapeutic systems e.g. patches milk pastes foams sprinkling powders implants or stents.

The compounds according to the invention can be converted to the administration forms mentioned. This can be done in a manner known per se by mixing with inert nontoxic pharmaceutically suitable excipients. These excipients include carriers for example microcrystalline cellulose lactose mannitol solvents e.g. liquid polyethylene glycols emulsifiers and dispersing or wetting agents for example sodium dodecylsulphate polyoxysorbitan oleate binders for example polyvinylpyrrolidone synthetic and natural polymers for example albumin stabilizers e.g. antioxidants for example ascorbic acid dyes e.g. inorganic pigments for example iron oxides and flavour and or odour correctants.

In general it has been found to be advantageous in the case of parenteral administration to administer amounts of about 0.001 to 1 mg kg preferably about 0.01 to 0.5 mg kg of body weight to achieve effective results. In the case of oral administration the dose is about 0.001 to 2 mg kg preferably about 0.001 to 1 mg kg of body weight.

It may nevertheless be necessary where appropriate to deviate from the stated amounts specifically as a function of the body weight route of administration individual response to the active compound nature of the preparation and time or interval over which administration takes place.

For instance in some cases less than the aforementioned minimum amount may be sufficient while in other cases the upper limit mentioned must be exceeded. In the case of administration of greater amounts it may be advisable to divide them into several individual doses over the day.

The working examples which follow illustrate the invention. The invention is not limited to the examples.

The percentages in the tests and examples which follow are unless indicated otherwise percentages by weight parts are parts by weight. Solvent ratios dilution ratios and concentration figures for liquid liquid solutions are each based on volume.

Instrument Waters ACQUITY SQD UPLC System column Waters Acquity UPLC HSS T3 1.8 50 1 mm mobile phase A 1 l of water 0.25 ml of 99 strength formic acid mobile phase B 1 l of acetonitrile 0.25 ml of 99 strength formic acid gradient 0.0 min 90 A 1.2 min 5 A 2.0 min 5 A oven 50 C. flow rate 0.40 ml min UV detection 208 400 nm.

Instrument Waters ACQUITY SQD UPLC System column Waters Acquity UPLC HSS T3 1.8 30 2 mm mobile phase A 1 l of water 0.25 ml of 99 strength formic acid mobile phase B 1 l of acetonitrile 0.25 ml of 99 strength formic acid gradient 0.0 min 90 A 1.2 min 5 A 2.0 min 5 A oven 50 C. flow rate 0.60 ml min UV detection 208 400 nm.

Instrument Micromass Quattro Premier with Waters UPLC Acquity column Thermo Hypersil GOLD 1.9 50 1 mm mobile phase A 1 l of water 0.5 ml of 50 strength formic acid mobile phase B 1 l of acetonitrile 0.5 ml of 50 strength formic acid gradient 0.0 min 97 A 0.5 min 97 A 3.2 min 5 A 4.0 min 5 A oven 50 C. flow rate 0.3 ml min UV detection 210 nm.

MS instrument type Waters ZQ HPLC instrument type Agilent 1100 Series UV DAD column Thermo Hypersil GOLD 3 20 mm 4 mm mobile phase A 1 l of water 0.5 ml of 50 strength formic acid mobile phase B 1 l of acetonitrile 0.5 ml of 50 strength formic acid gradient 0.0 min 100 A 3.0 min 10 A 4.0 min 10 A oven 55 C. flow rate 2 ml min UV detection 210 nm.

Instrument Micromass Quattro Premier with Waters UPLC Acquity column Thermo Hypersil GOLD 1.9 50 1 mm mobile phase A 1 l of water 0.5 ml of 50 strength formic acid mobile phase B 1 l of acetonitrile 0.5 ml of 50 strength formic acid gradient 0.0 min 90 A 0.1 min 90 A 1.5 min 10 A 2.2 min 10 A oven 50 C. flow rate 0.33 ml min UV detection 210 nm.

Instrument Thermo Fisher Scientific DSQ chemical ionization reactant gas NH source temperature 200 C. ionization energy 70 eV.

MS instrument Waters Micromass Quattro Micro HPLC instrument Agilent 1100 series column YMC Triart C18 3 50 3 mm mobile phase A 1 l of water 0.01 mol of ammonium carbonate mobile phase B 1 l of acetonitrile gradient 0.0 min 100 A 2.75 min 5 A 4.5 min 5 A oven 40 C. flow rate 1.25 ml min UV detection 210 nm.

Instrument Thermo DFS Trace GC Ultra column Restek RTX 35 15 m 200 m 0.33 m constant flow rate with helium 1.20 ml min oven 60 C. inlet 220 C. gradient 60 C. 30 C. min 300 C. maintained for 3.33 min 

Instrument Waters ACQUITY SQD UPLC System column Waters Acquity UPLC HSS T3 1.8 50 1 mm mobile phase A 1 l of water 0.25 ml of 99 strength formic acid mobile phase B 1 l of acetonitrile 0.25 ml of 99 strength formic acid gradient 0.0 min 95 A 6.0 min 5 A 7.5 min 5 A oven 50 C. flow rate 0.35 ml min UV detection 210 400 nm.

Instrument Micromass GCT GC6890 column Restek RTX 35 15 m 200 m 0.33 m constant helium flow rate 0.88 ml min oven 70 C. inlet 250 C. gradient 70 C. 30 C. min 310 C. maintained for 3 min .

In THF 91 ml 3 g 45.411 mmol of malononitrile were added slowly to 1.816 g 45.411 mmol of sodium hydride 60 in mineral oil . Subsequently 5.876 ml 45.411 mmol of methyl 2 bromo 2 methylpropanoate were added and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. Thereafter another 5.876 ml 45.411 mmol of methyl 2 bromo 2 methylpropanoate were added and the reaction mixture was heated to 50 C. overnight. Then yet another 1.762 ml 13.623 mmol of methyl 2 bromo 2 methylpropanoate were added and the reaction mixture was heated to 50 C. for a further 4 h. Saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution was then added and the mixture was extracted three times with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulphate filtered and concentrated to dryness. This gave 8.9 g of crude product which was purified by chromatography on silica gel cyclohexane ethyl acetate 4 1 .

7.519 g 327 mmol of sodium were added to ethanol 660 ml and reacted completely under argon. 50.00 g 163.53 mmol of Example 2A and after 5 min 40.45 g 188.01 mmol of diethyl 2 formylbutanedioate synthesis described in WO 2005 73234 page 43 were then added. The mixture was then heated at reflux for 12 h. After cooling water and then 1N hydrochloric acid were added to the reaction mixture. The precipitate that formed was filtered off with suction and washed successively with water ethanol 1 1 200 ml ethanol 100 ml and finally with diethyl ether. After drying under high vacuum 58.0 g of the title compound were obtained 83 of theory .

55.00 g 135 mmol of Example 3A were initially charged in sulpholane 220 ml and 41.40 g 270 mmol of phosphoryl chloride were added. The mixture was then heated at 120 C. for 1 h. After cooling the mixture was added to warm water 1500 ml and then neutralized with solid sodium bicarbonate. The precipitate that formed was filtered off with suction and washed with water. The product was purified further by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 3 2 . After drying under high vacuum 43.0 g of the title compound were obtained 73 of theory .

10.00 g 23.482 mmol of Example 4A were initially charged in DMF 200 ml and 2.290 g 35.223 mmol of sodium azide were added. The mixture was then heated at 60 C. for 1 h. After cooling the reaction mixture was added to water and extracted three times with ethyl acetate. The organic phases were combined and washed once with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution then dried over sodium sulphate filtered and concentrated. The residue was used for the next step without further purification.

10.15 g 23.482 mmol of crude product from Example 5A in DMF 400 ml were hydrogenated with palladium on carbon 10 at standard hydrogen pressure overnight. The reaction mixture was then filtered through Celite and concentrated. The residue was used for the next step without further purification.

9.46 g 23.276 mmol of Example 6A were initially charged in THF 400 ml and 2.612 g 23.726 mmol of potassium tert butoxide were added. The mixture was stirred at RT for 1 h water was then added the mixture was adjusted to pH 5 with acetic acid and then stirred at RT for 10 min. The mixture was then extracted three times with ethyl acetate and the combined organic phases were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution. The organic phase was then dried over sodium sulphate filtered and concentrated to dryness. The residue was suspended in methanol and filtered off with suction. The filter cake was washed repeatedly with methanol and then dried under high vacuum. This gave 6.61 g of the title compound as a solid 78 of theory .

2.00 g 5.550 mmol of Example 7A were initially charged in dioxane 200 ml 3.079 g 27.751 mmol of selenium dioxide were added and the mixture was then heated at reflux for 2 h. After cooling the mixture was filtered and the filtrate was concentrated and purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 1 1 . This gave 890 mg of the title compound 42 of theory .

405 mg 2.671 mmol of caesium fluoride were dried under high vacuum for 1 h and a solution of 1.00 g 2.671 mmol of Example 8A in 20 ml of DMF was then added under argon. 3.945 ml 26.714 mmol of trifluoromethyl trimethylsilane were then added dropwise and then the mixture was stirred at RT overnight. The reaction mixture was then filtered through Celite the filter cake was washed with DMF and the filtrate was concentrated. The residue obtained was dissolved in acetonitrile 30 ml 2 ml of water were added and the mixture was stirred for 30 min. The mixture was then concentrated to dryness and the residue was purified by preparative HPLC acetonitrile water 0.05 formic acid gradient . This gave 290 mg of the title compound 24 of theory .

232 mg 0.522 mmol of Example 9A in dichloromethane 14 ml were cooled to 0 C. and 436 l 3.133 mmol of triethylamine were then added. 190 l 2.611 mmol of thionyl chloride were then added dropwise and the mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 15 min. The reaction mixture was subsequently diluted with dichloromethane and extracted three times with water. The phases were separated and the organic phase was dried with sodium sulphate filtered and concentrated to dryness. The residue obtained was purified by preparative HPLC acetonitrile water 0.05 formic acid gradient . This gave 120 mg of the title compound 50 of theory .

20.000 g 65.414 mmol of the compound from Example 2A were dissolved in 320 ml of ethanol and 26.477 g 261.656 mmol of triethylamine and 4.093 g 65.414 mmol of hydrazine hydrate 80 strength solution in water were added at 0 C. The mixture was stirred at RT overnight and then concentrated on a rotary evaporator. This gave 26.84 g 100 of theory purity 69 of the title compound which was reacted further without further purification.

624 mg 5.564 mmol of potassium tert butoxide were initially charged in toluene 40 ml and 0.932 mg 4.945 mmol of diethyl 2 methyl 3 oxobutanedioate were added. 3.073 ml 32.457 mmol of methyl bromoacetate and 122 mg 0.465 mmol of 18 crown 6 were then added and the mixture was heated at reflux for 4 h. The reaction mixture was then cooled to 5 C. and added to diethyl ether and 7 strength hydrochloric acid. The phases were separated and the organic phase was extracted once more with 7 strength hydrochloric acid and twice with water. The organic phase was then dried over sodium sulphate filtered and concentrated. The residue was dried under high vacuum overnight and then used without further purification. This gave 1.45 g of the title compound which were reacted further without further purification.

1.45 g about 4.950 mmol of Example 12A were initially charged in ethanol 20 ml a suspension of 1.37 g about 3.300 mmol of Example 11A in 20 ml of ethanol was added dropwise and the mixture was then heated at reflux overnight. After cooling a precipitate was filtered off and washed with ethanol. The filtrate was concentrated and diethyl ether was added to the residue. Once more a precipitate was filtered off and the filtrate was concentrated and then purified by preparative HPLC methanol water gradient . This gave 297 mg of the title compound 18 of theory .

337 mg 0.682 mmol of Example 3 were reacted analogously to Example 10A. This gave 236 mg of the title compound 67 of theory .

A suspension of 25 g 130.90 mmol of 2 6 dichloro 5 fluoro 3 cyanopyridine in conc. sulphuric acid 125 ml was stirred at 60 65 C. for 1 h. After cooling to RT the contents of the flask were poured onto ice water and extracted three times with ethyl acetate 100 ml each time . The combined organic phases were washed with water 100 ml and then with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 100 ml dried and concentrated on a rotary evaporator. The material obtained was dried under high vacuum.

At RT 44 g 210.58 mmol of 2 6 dichloro 5 fluoronicotinamide were added to a suspension of 21.9 g 335.35 mmol of zinc in methanol 207 ml . Acetic acid 18.5 ml was then added and the mixture was heated with stirring at reflux for 24 h. The contents of the flask were then decanted from the zinc and ethyl acetate 414 ml and saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 414 ml were added followed by intense extractive stirring. Subsequently the reaction mixture was filtered with suction through kieselguhr and the filter product was washed three times with ethyl acetate 517 ml each time . The organic phase was separated off and the aqueous phase was washed with ethyl acetate 258 ml . The combined organic phases were washed once with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 414 ml dried and concentrated under reduced pressure. Dichloromethane 388 ml was added to the crystals thus obtained and extraction was effected by stirring for 20 min. The mixture was once more filtered off with suction washed with diethyl ether and sucked dry.

81.2 ml 582.25 mmol of triethylamine were added to a suspension of 46.2 g 264.66 mmol of 2 chloro 5 fluoronicotinamide in dichloromethane 783 ml and the mixture was cooled to 0 C. Then with stirring 41.12 ml 291.13 mmol of trifluoroacetic anhydride were added slowly dropwise and the mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 1.5 h. The reaction solution was subsequently washed twice with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 391 ml each time dried and concentrated under reduced pressure.

A suspension of 38.5 g 245.93 mmol of 2 chloro 5 fluoronicotinonitrile was initially charged in 1 2 ethanediol 380 ml and hydrazine hydrate 119.6 ml was then added. With stirring the mixture was heated at reflux for 4 h. The product precipitated on cooling. Water 380 ml was added to the crystals and the mixture was subjected to extractive stirring at RT for 10 min. The suspension was then filtered with suction over a frit and the filter product was washed with water 200 ml and with 10 C. cold THF 200 ml . Drying under high vacuum over phosphorus pentoxide.

10 g 65.75 mmol of 5 fluoro 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine 3 amine were initially charged in THF 329 ml and the mixture was cooled to 0 C. 16.65 ml 131.46 mmol of boron trifluoride diethyl ether complex were then added slowly. The reaction mixture was cooled further to 10 C. A solution of 10.01 g 85.45 mmol of isopentyl nitrite in THF 24.39 ml was then added slowly and the mixture was stirred for a further 30 min. The mixture was diluted with cold diethyl ether 329 ml and the resulting solid was filtered off. The diazonium salt thus prepared was added a little at a time to a solution at 0 C. of 12.81 g 85.45 mmol of sodium iodide in acetone 329 ml and the mixture was stirred at RT for 30 min. The reaction mixture was poured into ice water 1.8 l and extracted twice with ethyl acetate 487 ml each time . The collected organic phases were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 244 ml dried filtered and concentrated. This gave 12.1 g 86 purity 60 of theory of the title compound as a solid. The crude product was converted without further purification.

12.1 g about 39.65 mmol of the compound from Example 19A were initially charged in DMF 217 ml and 8.25 g 43.62 mmol of 2 fluorobenzyl bromide and 14.21 g 43.62 mmol of caesium carbonate were then added. The mixture was stirred at RT for two hours. The reaction mixture was then poured onto water 1.17 l and extracted twice with ethyl acetate 502 ml . The collected organic phases were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 335 ml dried filtered and concentrated. The residue was chromatographed on silica gel mobile phase petroleum ether ethyl acetate 97 3 and the product fractions were concentrated. This gave 9.0 g 61 of theory of the title compound as a solid. The solid was taken up in ethyl acetate and washed with 10 strength aqueous sodium thiosulphate solution and then with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution dried and concentrated.

13.487 g 51.228 mmol of ethyl 5 amino 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazole 3 carboxylate preparation described for example 20A in WO 00 06569 were initially charged in 300 ml of dioxane and 6 g 51.228 mmol of 3 dimethylamino 2 fluoroacrylaldehyde preparation described in 1970 99 107 were added at RT. Subsequently 4.736 ml 61.473 mmol of trifluoroacetic acid were added and the mixture was heated at reflux while stirring for 3 days. After cooling the mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and water and ethyl acetate were added to the residue. The phases were separated and the organic phase was washed twice with water. The combined aqueous phases were subsequently extracted twice with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases were dried over sodium sulphate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue 22 g was subsequently purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase dichloromethane . This gave 5.67 g 35 of theory of the title compound.

1.00 g 3.152 mmol of Example 21A was stirred in 10 ml of a 7N solution of ammonia in methanol at RT for three days. This was followed by concentration under reduced pressure. This gave 908 mg 99 of theory of the title compound.

A suspension of 16.03 g 43.19 mmol of 5 fluoro 1 2 fluorobenzyl 3 iodo 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine Example 20A and 4.25 g 47.51 mmol of copper cyanide was initially charged in DMSO 120 ml and stirred at 150 C. for 2 h. After cooling the contents of the flask were cooled to about 40 C. and poured onto a solution of conc. aqueous ammonia 90 ml and water 500 ml ethyl acetate 200 ml was added and extraction was effected briefly by stirring. The aqueous phase was removed and extracted two more times with ethyl acetate 200 ml each time . The combined organic phases were washed twice with 10 aqueous sodium chloride solution 100 ml each time dried and concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product was converted without further purification.

900 mg 3.122 mmol of the compound obtained in Example 22A were dissolved in THF 14 ml and 0.646 ml 7.993 mmol of pyridine was added. Thereafter 1.129 ml 7.993 mmol of trifluoroacetic anhydride were slowly added dropwise and then the mixture was stirred at RT overnight. Thereafter the reaction mixture was poured onto water and extracted three times with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases were extracted with saturated aqueous sodium hydrogencarbonate solution and 1N hydrochloric acid and then washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution. The organic phase was dried over sodium sulphate filtered and concentrated. This gave 850 mg 99 of theory of the title compound.

11.1 g 41.07 mmol of 5 fluoro 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine 3 carbonitrile Example 23A were added to 2.22 g 41.07 mmol of sodium methoxide in methanol 270 ml and the mixture was stirred at RT for 2 h. 2.64 g 49.29 mmol of ammonium chloride and acetic acid 9.17 ml were then added and the mixture was heated at reflux overnight. It was then concentrated to dryness and the residue was taken up in water 100 ml and ethyl acetate 100 ml and adjusted to a pH of 10 using 2N aqueous sodium hydroxide solution. The mixture was stirred vigorously at RT for about 1 h. The resulting suspension was filtered with suction and washed through with ethyl acetate 100 ml with water 100 ml and once more with ethyl acetate 100 ml . The residue was dried under high vacuum over phosphorus pentoxide.

23.000 g 66.22 mmol of Example 24A were dissolved in 322 ml of ethanol and 26.804 g 264.88 mmol of triethylamine and 6.027 g 66.22 mmol of hydrazine hydrate 55 strength solution in water were added at 0 C. The mixture was stirred at RT overnight and then added to 1.715 l of a 10 strength aqueous sodium chloride solution and extracted twice with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases were washed with 10 strength aqueous sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated on a rotary evaporator. The residue was purified on silica gel mobile phase dichloromethane methanol 95 5 . This gave 15.000 g 75 of theory of the title compound.

Analogously to Example 12A 9.444 ml 97.370 mmol of bromomethyl cyclopropane were added to 2.796 ml 14.836 mmol of diethyl 2 methyl 3 oxobutanedioate. This gave 3.62 g of the title compound which was reacted further without further purification.

1.272 g about 4.962 mmol of Example 26A were initially charged in 10 ml of ethanol and heated to reflux. A suspension of 1.00 g 3.308 mmol of Example 25A in 40 ml of ethanol was then added dropwise. The mixture was heated overnight a further 2.24 g of Example 26A were added and the mixture was heated at reflux for a further night. After cooling a solid was filtered off with suction and washed with a little ethanol and the filtrate was concentrated. The residue was purified by preparative HPLC acetonitrile water gradient . This gave 270 mg 16 of theory of the title compound.

13.495 ml 97.370 mmol of benzyl chloromethyl ether were added to 2.796 ml 14.836 mmol of diethyl 2 methyl 3 oxobutanedioate analogously to the procedure of Example 12A. This gave after filtration 2.15 g of the title compound which were reacted in the next steps without further purification.

1.600 g 4.962 mmol of the crude compound from Example 28A were reacted analogously to the procedure of Example 27A. The residue was purified by preparative HPLC acetonitrile water gradient . This gave 450 mg 24 of theory of the title compound.

7.788 ml 97.370 mmol of iodoethane were added to 2.796 ml 14.836 mmol of diethyl 2 methyl 3 oxobutanedioate analogously to the procedure of Example 12A. This gave 3.40 g of the title compound which was reacted in the next steps without further purification.

1.143 g 4.962 mmol of Example 30A were converted in analogy to Example 27A. The residue was purified by preparative HPLC acetonitrile water 1 trifluoroacetic acid gradient . This gave 334 mg 21 of theory of the title compound.

10.00 g 38.021 mmol of Example 19A were reacted analogously to the procedure of Example 20A with 4 methoxybenzyl chloride. Chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate mixture gave 8.94 g 61 of theory of the title compound.

8.94 g 23.332 mmol of Example 32A were reacted analogously to the procedure of Example 23A variant A. The crude product obtained was reacted without further purification.

6.52 g 23.098 mmol of Example 33A were reacted analogously to the procedure of Example 24A. Yield 6.16 g 74 of theory 

6.16 g 17.141 mmol of Example 34 A were reacted analogously to the procedure of Example 25A. Purification on silica gel was dispensed with. This gave 4.90 g 90 of theory of the title compound which was reacted without further purification.

4.89 g 15.557 mmol of the crude compound from Example 35A were reacted analogously to the procedure of Example 27A with 4.391 g 23.336 mmol of dimethyl 2 2 dimethyl 3 oxobutanedioate described in J. Am. Chem. Soc. 124 14 3680 3691 2002 . After complete conversion a solid was filtered off washed with ethanol and then dried under high vacuum. This gave 6.04 g 85 of theory of the title compound.

At 78 C. 10.00 g 78.020 mmol of methyl cyclopentanecarboxylate and 13.683 g 93.624 mmol of ethyl oxalate were initially charged in 200 ml of tetrahydrofuran 46.812 ml 93.624 mmol of lithium diisopropylamide 2M in tetrahydrofuran heptane ethylbenzene were added and the mixture was then stirred at 78 C. for 1 h. The cooling bath was then removed and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. The mixture was then cooled to 0 C. and 1M hydrochloric acid was added. The mixture was then extracted three times with ethyl acetate and the organic phases were combined. The organic phases were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulphate filtered and concentrated to dryness. The residue was purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate gradient . This gave 12.28 g 68 of theory of the title compound.

1.00 g 3.308 mmol of the compound from Example 25A were reacted analogously to the procedure of Example 27A with 1.510 g 6.616 mmol of Example 37A. This gave 0.458 g 29 of theory of the title compound.

2.067 g 6.345 mmol of caesium carbonate in DMF 30 ml were added to 2.45 g 5.768 mmol of the compound from Example 8. 1.221 ml 6.922 mmol of 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxymethyl chloride were then added and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. The solids were then filtered off and washed with DMF the filtrate was concentrated and the residue was dried under high vacuum. This gave 4.45 g of the title compound which were used without further purification for the next step.

4.148 g 7.546 mmol of the compound from Example 39A were taken up in acetonitrile 110 ml and water 55 ml 12.411 g 22.638 mmol of ammonium cerium IV nitrate were added and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 20 min. Plenty of water was then added and a precipitate was filtered off. This solid was washed with water and subsequently with a little diethyl ether. This gave after drying under high vacuum 1.53 g 47 of theory of the title compound.

136 mg 0.419 mmol of caesium carbonate and 78 mg 0.384 mmol of 2 fluoro 4 methylbenzyl bromide were added to 0.150 g 0.349 mmol of the compound from Example 40A in tetrahydrofuran 8 ml and the mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. After filtration the mixture was purified by preparative HPLC acetonitrile water 0.05 formic acid gradient . This gave 112 mg of the title compound as a mixture of isomers N1 N2 benzylated ratio 2.3 1 58 of theory .

0.150 g 0.349 mmol of the compound from Example 40A were reacted analogously to the procedure of Example 41A with 2 fluoro 3 methoxybenzyl bromide. After filtration the mixture was purified by preparative HPLC acetonitrile water 0.05 formic acid gradient . This gave 92 mg of the title compound 46 of theory .

0.150 g 0.349 mmol of the compound from Example 40A were reacted analogously to the procedure of Example 41A with 1 bromomethyl 2 fluoro 3 methylbenzene. After filtration the mixture was purified by preparative HPLC acetonitrile water 0.05 formic acid gradient . This gave 83 mg of the title compound 44 of theory .

Analogously to the procedure of Example 12A 10.980 ml 97.370 mmol of 2 bromoethyl ethyl ether were added to 2.796 ml 14.836 mmol of diethyl 2 methyl 3 oxobutanedioate. This gave 3.38 g of the title compound which was reacted in the next step without further purification.

0.50 g 1.654 mmol of the compound from Example 44A were reacted analogously to the procedure of Example 27A with 907 mg 3.308 mmol of Example 25A. This gave 42 mg 5 of theory of the title compound.

5.887 g 19.256 mmol of Example 2A were initially charged in tert butanol 50 ml and 2.593 g 23.107 mmol of potassium tert butoxide were added. Subsequently 3.2 g 19.256 mmol of Example 1A in tert butanol 25 ml were added dropwise and the mixture was heated to reflux overnight. The next day another 0.64 g 3.851 mmol of Example 1A was added and the mixture was heated to reflux for a further day. After cooling a precipitate was filtered off which was washed with diethyl ether. Subsequently the precipitate was slurried in water filtered off once more and washed with diethyl ether. After drying under high vacuum 6.65 g of the title compound were obtained 85 of theory .

5.00 g 12.394 mmol of Example 46A were initially charged in isopentyl nitrite 35.87 ml and diiodomethane 1.16 mol 93.71 ml and the mixture was heated at 85 C. for 12 h. After cooling solids were filtered off the mixture was concentrated and the residue was then purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase initially cyclohexane dichloromethane gradient then dichloromethane methanol gradient . This gave 5.50 g of the title compound 67 of theory .

58 g 340.027 mmol of 2 chloro 5 fluoro 6 methylnicotinonitrile preparation described in WO2007 41052 Example U 2 page 80 were initially charged in 1 2 ethanediol 580 ml and hydrazine hydrate 24.813 ml and 56.091 ml 340.027 mmol of diisopropylethylamine were then added. With stirring the mixture was heated at 80 C. for 16 h and then at 120 C. for 66 h. After cooling water 2.5 l and ethyl acetate 2.5 l were added and the mixture was filtered off with suction. The solid obtained was dried. This gave 28.4 g 47 of theory of the target compound.

28 g 168.513 mmol of Example 48A were reacted analogously to the procedure of Example 19A. Chromatography on silica gel cyclohexane ethyl acetate 9 1 gave 14.9 g 31 of theory of the title compound.

13 g 46.925 mmol of Example 49A were reacted analogously to the procedure of Example 20A. Chromatography on silica gel cyclohexane ethyl acetate gradient gave 8.4 g 43 of theory of the title compound.

9.3 g 24.146 mmol of Example 50A were reacted analogously to the procedure of Example 23A variant A. Chromatography on silica gel cyclohexane ethyl acetate gradient gave 5.7 g 80 of theory about 95 pure of the title compound.

5.7 g 18.908 mmol about 95 pure of Example 51A were reacted analogously to the procedure of Example 24A. This gave 6.6 g 96 of theory of the title compound.

500 mg 1.384 mmol of Example 52A were reacted analogously to the procedure of Example 25A. This gave 365 mg 83 of theory of the title compound.

365 mg 1.154 mmol of Example 53A were reacted analogously to the procedure of Example 13A with 325 mg 1.731 mmol of dimethyl 2 2 dimethyl 3 oxobutanedioate. This gave 589 mg 92 of theory purity 82 of the title compound.

1 g 2.767 mmol of Example 52A were reacted analogously to the procedure of Example 46A. This gave 971 mg 80 of theory of the title compound.

960 mg 2.205 mmol of Example 55A were reacted analogously to the procedure of Example 47A. This gave 749 mg 62 of theory 84 pure of the title compound.

6.34 g about 24.74 mmol of the compound from Example 59A were initially introduced into 80 ml of ethanol. The mixture was heated to reflux and 3.91 g 12.37 mmol purity 90 of the compound from Example 11A were added a little at a time. Stirring of the mixture at reflux was continued overnight. After cooling the precipitated solid was filtered off. The filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue 9.2 g was dissolved in about 40 ml of acetonitrile methanol and purified by prep. HPLC Daiso C18 10 m Bio 300 100 mm neutral gradient water acetonitrile 60 90 .

At room temperature 10 ml of phosphoryl chloride were added to 700 mg 1.47 mmol of the compound from Example 57A and the mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The reaction solution was processed further without any work up.

Under argon 6.24 g 55.64 mmol of potassium tert butoxide were initially charged in 400 ml of toluene. At room temperature 10 g of diethyl oxalpropionate were slowly added dropwise. 32.95 ml 324.57 mmol of 4 bromo 1 butene and 1.23 g 4.65 mmol of 18 crown 6 were then added. The mixture was heated under reflux for 4 h. This was followed by cooling to 5 C. The reaction mixture was added to a cooled mixture of diethyl ether and 7 strength aqueous hydrochloric acid. The phases were separated. The organic phase was washed once with ice cold 7 strength aqueous hydrochloric acid and twice with water. After drying over sodium sulphate the mixture was concentrated and the residue was dried under high vacuum overnight. This gave 13.42 g of the title compound as a crude product which was used for the subsequent reactions.

Under argon 5 g 8.26 mmol of the compound from Example 47A 85 pure and 814 mg 9.09 mmol of copper I cyanide were initially charged in 87 ml of DMSO. The suspension was stirred at 150 C. for 3 h. The mixture was cooled and a mixture of saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution and 33 strength aqueous ammonia solution 3 1 and ethyl acetate was cautiously added and the mixture was stirred at RT for 30 min. The mixture was then filtered with suction through Celite and the filter cake was washed with ethyl acetate. After phase separation the organic phase was washed three times with ammonium chloride ammonia solution 3 1 and once with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution. The organic phase was dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was dissolved in dichloromethane and chromatographed on silica gel using dichloromethane acetone 99 1 . The product fractions were concentrated and dried under high vacuum. This gave 1.44 g 33 of theory purity 77 of the title compound.

Under an argon atmosphere 305 mg 0.66 mmol of 4 amino N cyclopropyl 5 methyl 6 oxo 2 1 3 3 3 trifluoropropyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 6 7 dihydro 5H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine 5 carboxamide described in WO 2011 149921 Expl. 181B and 0.27 ml 1.99 mmol of isopentyl nitrite were initially charged in 12 ml of dioxane and 0.16 ml 1.99 mmol of diiodomethane was added. After 8 h of stirring at 85 C. the mixture was cooled concentrated under reduced pressure and purified by preparative HPLC gradient 0.05 formic acid in water 20 95 acetonitrile . This gave 111.8 mg of the title compound 18 of theory purity 60 .

6.17 ml 31.13 mmol of ethyl glyoxylate 50 in toluene were initially charged in 50 ml of ethanol. 5.90 g 20.75 mmol of Example 11A suspended in 200 ml of ethanol were added dropwise and the mixture was heated at reflux overnight. After cooling the precipitated solid was filtered off washed with ethanol and dried under high vacuum overnight. This gave 2.95 g 44 of theory of the title compound.

The filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure. Ethanol was added to the residue and the insoluble solid was filtered off and washed with ethanol. Drying under high vacuum gave 0.61 g 9 of theory of the title compound.

The filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure and the residue was dried under high vacuum. This gave 3.14 g 43 of theory 43 pure of the title compound.

Under argon 3.56 g 11.04 mmol of the compound from Example 62A were initially charged in 28 ml of thionyl chloride. The mixture was heated at reflux for 8 h. Another 12 ml of thionyl chloride were then added and the mixture was heated at reflux overnight. The mixture was subsequently cooled and concentrated under reduced pressure. Twice toluene was added to the residue and each time the mixture was then concentrated under reduced pressure. Drying of the solid under high vacuum gave 4.19 g 82 of theory of the title compound as a crude product which was reacted without further purification.

Under argon 100 mg 0.27 mmol of Example 63A were initially charged in 3 ml of THF. At 0 C. 56 l 0.32 mmol of N N diisopropylethylamine were added and 0.16 ml 0.32 mmol of ammonia 2M in ethanol was added dropwise. The mixture was then stirred at RT overnight. The mixture was then partitioned between dichloromethane and 1N aqueous hydrochloric acid the aqueous phase was extracted with dichloromethane and the combined organic phases were dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated under reduced pressure. DMF acetonitrile and water were added to the residue and the precipitated solid was filtered off with suction and discarded. The filtrate was purified by preparative HPLC water with 0.05 formic acid acetonitrile gradient 20 95 acetonitrile . The product fractions were concentrated under reduced pressure. Drying under high vacuum gave 12.5 mg 13 of theory of the title compound.

Under argon 49.94 g 0.445 mol of potassium tert butoxide were initially charged in 3.20 l of toluene. At room temperature 225 ml 2.60 mmol of allyl bromide were added dropwise. 9.83 g 37.19 mmol of 18 crown 6 were then added and the mixture was boiled at reflux for 4 h. The reaction mixture was then cooled to 5 C. and 500 ml of 7 strength aqueous hydrochloric acid were added. The phases were separated and the organic phase was washed with 300 ml of ice cold 7 strength aqueous hydrochloric acid and twice with in each case 200 ml of water. The mixture was dried over sodium sulphate and then concentrated. This gave 102 g of the title compound as a crude product which was reacted further without further purification.

84.37 g 348.23 mmmol of Example 65A were initially charged in 1.10 l of ethanol. Under reflux 55 g 0.174 mol purity 90 of Example 11A were added a little at a time and heating under reflux was continued overnight. The reaction was then combined with a test batch starting with 11.1 g 35.1 mmol of Example 65A. The mixture was then cooled to 5 C. and the precipitated solid was filtered off and washed with tert butyl methyl ether. The solid was discarded. The filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure 500 ml of tert butyl methyl ether were added to the residue and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. Once more a solid was filtered off washed with diethyl ether and discarded. The filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure and diethyl ether was added. The residue was then filtered off washed with diethyl ether and dried. This gave 40.40 g 42 of theory of the title compound.

Under an argon atmosphere 10 g 40.81 mmol of 3 iodo 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine WO 2006 130673 Ex. 4b and 14.63 g 44.89 mmol of caesium carbonate were initially charged in 170 ml of N N dimethylformamide and 12.3 g 44.89 mmol of 1 1 1 2 2 pentafluoro 4 iodobutane dissolved in 30 ml of N N dimethylformamide were added. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 days. Another 14.63 g 44.89 mmol of caesium carbonate and 12.3 g 44.89 mmol of 1 1 1 2 2 pentafluoro 4 iodobutane were then added. The mixture was stirred at room temperature over the weekend and another 3.49 g 12.72 mmol of 1 1 1 2 2 pentafluoro 4 iodobutane and 4.14 g 12.72 mmol of caesium carbonate were added. After a further night at room temperature 5 g 18.25 mmol of 1 1 1 2 2 pentafluoro 4 iodobutane and 5.95 g 18.25 mmol of caesium carbonate were added. After 6 days of stirring at room temperature the mixture was heated at 70 C. for 2 days. The mixture was then cooled and filtered and the residue was washed with N N dimethylformamide. The filtrate was concentrated and purified by preparative HPLC gradient 0.1 formic acid in water 60 90 methanol. This gave 5.48 g 34 of theory of the title compound.

Under argon 4.9 g 9.53 mmol of Example 47A and 3.75 g 11.43 mmol of caesium carbonate were initially charged in 15 ml of N N dimethylformamide With ice cooling 2 ml 11.4 mmol of 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxymethyl chloride were then added dropwise and the mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. After addition of 375 mg 1.14 mmol of caesium carbonate and 0.2 ml 1.14 mmol of 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxymethyl chloride the mixture was stirred at room temperature for a further night. The mixture was then diluted with ethyl acetate and the inorganic solid was filtered off. The filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure and dried under high vacuum 6.9 g . This residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 3 1 . After drying under high vacuum 4.3 g of the title compound were obtained 70 of theory .

Under argon 100 mg 0.16 mmol of Example 69A were initially charged in 3.3 ml of a mixture of DMF water and triethylamine 25 4 4 170 l 1.55 mmol of ethyl acrylate 25 mg 0.03 mmol of palladium II acetate and 115 mg 0.31 mmol of tetra n butylammonium iodide were added and the mixture was stirred at 60 C. for 9 h. A further 170 l 1.55 mmol of ethyl acrylate 25 mg 0.03 mmol of palladium II acetate and 115 mg 0.31 mmol of tetra n butylammonium iodide were added and the mixture was stirred at 90 C. for 9 h. The addition of these chemicals was repeated two more times with stirring at 90 C. for 2.5 h after the first addition and for 3 h after the second addition. The mixture was finally diluted with acetonitrile and purified by prep. HPLC gradients of water with 0.1 formic acid acetonitrile 10 95 .

37 mg 0.06 mmol of Example 70A were dissolved in 0.5 ml of dichloromethane 100 l 1.30 mmol of trifluoroacetic acid were added and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The mixture was then concentrated under reduced pressure and dried under high vacuum. The crude product was reacted further without purification.

1.65 g 25.2 mmol of zinc powder were initially charged in 5.5 ml of tetrahydrofuran. 0.15 ml 1.78 mmol of 1 2 dibromoethane was added with stirring. Four times the mixture was heated to reflux and cooled back to room temperature. 0.062 ml 0.49 mmol of trimethylsilyl chloride was then added and the mixture was stirred for 10 min. A solution of 2 g 8.40 mmol of 4 4 4 trifluoro 1 iodobutane in 5.5 ml of tetrahydrofuran was added dropwise with the mixture being maintained at RT by cooling with ice water. The mixture was finally stirred at RT for 15 min and the solution was then removed via a syringe with HPLC filter. A content of 0.76 M was assumed.

1.75 g 26.8 mmol of zinc powder were initially charged in 5.5 ml of tetrahydrofuran. 0.16 ml 1.89 mmol of 1 2 dibromoethane was added with stirring. Four times the mixture was heated to reflux and cooled back to room temperature. 0.066 ml 0.52 mmol of trimethylsilyl chloride was then added and the mixture was stirred for 10 min. A solution of 2 g 8.93 mmol of 1 1 1 trifluoro 3 iodopropane in 5.5 ml of tetrahydrofuran was added dropwise with the mixture being maintained at RT by cooling with ice water. The mixture was finally stirred at RT for 15 min and the solution was then removed via a syringe with HPLC filter. A content of 0.81 M was assumed.

Under argon 19.16 g 75.69 mmol of diethyl 2 bromo 2 methylmalonate were initially charged in 120 ml of tetrahydrofuran. After addition of 5 g 75.69 mmol of malononitrile and 8.49 g 75.69 mmol of potassium tert butoxide the mixture was stirred at a bath temperature of 85 C. overnight. The mixture was cooled and ethyl acetate and saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution were added. The phases were separated and the aqueous phase was extracted twice with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases were washed with saturated sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated on a rotary evaporator. The residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 9 1 . After drying under high vacuum 5.94 g of the title compound were obtained 33 of theory .

Under an atmosphere of argon 4.69 g 15.32 mmol of Example 2A were initially charged in 120 ml of tert butanol and 3.07 g 30.66 mmol of potassium bicarbonate and 4.2 g 17.63 mmol of Example 74A were added at room temperature. The mixture was stirred at a bath temperature of 85 C. for 5 h. After cooling water was added and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 30 min. The precipitated solid was filtered off and washed with water and diethyl ether. Drying under high vacuum gave 6.2 g 88 of theory of the title compound.

Under an atmosphere of argon 600 mg 0.77 mmol purity 57 of Example 33 were initially charged and 2.50 ml 64.12 mmol of 80 pure hydrazine hydrate were added. The mixture was stirred at 80 C. for 30 min cooled concentrated on a rotary evaporator and dried under high vacuum. This gave 566 mg of the title compound as a crude product.

1 ml 26.88 mmol of formic acid was added to 55 mg 0.13 mmol of Example 76A in 1 ml of acetonitrile. The mixture was stirred at a bath temperature of 80 C. for 1.5 h cooled and concentrated. Ethyl acetate was added to the residue and the mixture was washed in each case once with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution and saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution and then dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated. This gave 29.7 mg 50 of theory of the title compound.

Under an atmosphere of argon 668 mg 12.37 mmol of sodium methoxide were initially charged in 40 ml of methanol and 3.59 g 12.37 mmol of Example 1 3 3 4 4 4 pentafluorobutyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine 3 carbonitrile WO 2011 149921 Expl. 158 D dissolved in 20 ml of methanol were added. After 2 h of stirring at room temperature 794 mg 14.85 mmol of ammonium chloride and 2.76 ml 48.25 mmol of acetic acid were added. The mixture was heated at reflux overnight cooled and concentrated under reduced pressure and ethyl acetate and 1 M aqueous sodium hydroxide solution were added. After 1 h of stirring at room temperature the solid was filtered off washed with ethyl acetate and water and dried under high vacuum overnight. 507 mg 11 of theory of the title compound were obtained.

The phases of the filtrate were separated. The aqueous phase was extracted twice with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases were washed once with water and once with saturated sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulphate concentrated under reduced pressure and dried under high vacuum overnight. 2.76 g 43 of theory of the title compound were obtained.

Under an atmosphere of argon 500 mg 1.36 mmol of Example 78A were initially charged in 10 ml of t butanol and 272.6 mg 2.72 mmol of potassium bicarbonate and 373 mg 1.57 mmol of Example 74A were added. After 5 h of stirring at 85 C. the mixture was cooled and water was added. After 30 min of stirring at room temperature the precipitated solid was filtered off and washed with water and a little ether. Drying under high vacuum gave 458 mg 63 of theory of the title compound.

The filtrate was extracted with ethyl acetate the phases were separated and the aqueous phase was extracted twice with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases were washed once with water and once with saturated sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulphate concentrated under reduced pressure and dried under high vacuum. This gave 218 mg 23 of theory purity 71 of the title compound.

4.12 g 13.62 mmol of Example 25A were converted in analogy to Example 66A. This gave 2.03 g 22 of theory purity 70 of the title compound.

Under argon 0.19 g 2.09 mmol of copper I cyanide was added to 1.53 g 1.90 mmol of 2 5 fluoro 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 4 iodo 5 5 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyrimidin 6 one described in WO2012 004258 see also Example 56A in 20 ml of DMSO and the mixture was stirred at 150 C. for 3 h. After cooling saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution 33 strength aqueous ammonia solution 3 1 and ethyl acetate were added carefully the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 30 min and filtered off with suction through Celite and the filter cake was washed with ethyl acetate. The phases were separated and the organic phase was washed three times with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution 33 strength ammonia solution 3 1 and once with saturated sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulphate concentrated under reduced pressure and dried under high vacuum overnight. This gave 1.22 g 89 of theory purity 59 of the title compound.

Under an atmosphere of argon 3 g 6.50 mmol of Example 75A were initially charged in 100 ml of dichloroethane. 1.31 ml 9.75 mmol of isopentyl nitrite and 1.74 g 7.80 mmol of copper II bromide were added and the mixture was stirred at a bath temperature of 65 C. overnight. After cooling water and dichloromethane were added. The phases were separated and the aqueous phase was extracted twice with dichloromethane. The combined organic phases were dried over sodium sulphate concentrated and purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase dichloromethane methanol 100 1 . Drying under high vacuum gave 2.32 g of the title compound 68 of theory .

Ethyl 5 amino 1 2 fluorobenzyl 4 formyl 1H pyrazole 3 carboxylate was prepared analogously to compounds known from the literature from 2 fluorobenzyl bromide and sodium 1 4 diethoxy 1 4 dioxobut 2 en 2 olate cf. Kelley et al. J. Med. Chem. 1995 38 3884 3888 Toche et al. J. Het. Chem. 2010 47 287 291 and patent U.S. Pat. No. 4 833 246 column 24.

With stirring 190 g 1.0 mol of 2 fluorobenzyl bromide were added to a mixture of 250 g 5.0 mol of hydrazine hydrate and 137 g 1.0 mol of potassium carbonate in 2 l of ethanol. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 d and then concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was extracted with diethyl ether. The organic phase was dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated. The crude product was purified by chromatography on silica gel. This gave 109 g 76 of theory of the target compound.

A solution of 160 g 0.76 mol of sodium 1 4 diethoxy 1 4 dioxobut 2 en 2 olate and 109 g 0.76 mol of 2 fluorobenzyl hydrazine in 1 l of glacial acetic acid was heated at 100 C. for 20 h. After cooling the mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure. Water and dichloromethane were added to the residue and the precipitate was filtered off and dried. 80 g 40 of theory of the target compound were obtained.

79 g 1.08 mol of dimethylformamide DMF were added dropwise to a cooled 10 C. mixture of 70 g 0.27 mol of ethyl 1 2 fluorobenzyl 5 oxo 4 5 dihydro 1H pyrazole 3 carboxylate and 200 ml of phosphorus oxychloride and the reaction mixture was stirred at 10 C. for 2 h and then at 100 C. for 5 h. The phosphorus oxychloride was distilled off under reduced pressure and the residue was added to water. The precipitate formed was filtered off and dried. 78 g 94 of theory of the target compound were obtained.

9 g 0.14 mol of sodium azide were added to a cooled 0 C. mixture of 31 g 0.1 mol of ethyl 5 chloro 1 2 fluorobenzyl 4 formyl 1H pyrazole 3 carboxylate and 200 ml of dimethylformamide DMF . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 4 d added to water and extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic phase was separated off dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated under reduced pressure giving 34 g 100 of theory of the target compound.

A mixture of 33 g 0.11 mol of ethyl 5 azido 1 2 fluorobenzyl 4 formyl 1H pyrazolo 3 carboxylate and 51 g 0.3 mol of sodium dithionite in 400 ml of ethanol was heated under reflux for 5 h. After cooling the reaction mixture was added to 2 l of water. The precipitate formed was filtered off and dried under reduced pressure. 20 g 65 of theory of the target compound were obtained.

5.00 g 17.17 mmol of ethyl 5 amino 1 2 fluorobenzyl 4 formyl 1H pyrazole 3 carboxylate were dissolved in 80 ml of ethanol 2.31 g 20.60 mmol of 1 1 1 trifluoroacetone and 1.19 g 10.30 mmol of L proline were added and the mixture was divided into 4 microwave vessels and stirred in a microwave at 180 C. for 5 h. After cooling the batches were combined and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by preparative HPLC acetonitrile water 0.05 formic acid gradient . This gave 2.20 g of the title compound 34 of theory .

2.19 g 5.84 mmol of ethyl 1 2 fluorobenzyl 6 trifluoromethyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine 3 carboxylate and 5.26 g 116.86 mmol of formamide were suspended in absolute ethanol and 1.22 ml of a 30 strength solution of sodium methoxide in methanol were added at room temperature. The mixture was stirred at 120 C. for 30 min. The solution which had become clear was allowed to stand at room temperature overnight and the resulting precipitate was filtered off with suction. The filter cake was washed with water three times and dried under high vacuum. This gave 1.19 g of the target compound 60 of theory .

1.18 g 3.45 mmol of 1 2 fluorobenzyl 6 trifluoromethyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine 3 carboxamide Ex. 85A were dissolved in 10 ml of phosphoryl chloride and the solution was stirred at 120 C. for 30 min. After cooling the phosphoryl chloride was distilled off and the residue was dried under high vacuum. The residue was purified by preparative HPLC acetonitrile water 0.05 formic acid gradient . This gave 671 mg of the title compound 57 of theory .

Under an atmosphere of argon 660 mg 1.94 mmol of 1 2 fluorobenzyl 6 trifluoromethyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine 3 carbonitrile Ex. 86A were dissolved in 6.2 ml of absolute methanol 527 mg 1.94 mmol of a 25 strength solution of sodium methoxide in methanol was added and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. 107 mg 2.33 mmol of ammonium chloride and 453 mg 7.56 mmol of glacial acetic acid were added and the reaction mixture was heated under reflux for 2 h. After cooling 20 ml of methanol were added and the mixture was adjusted to pH 10 with 1 N aqueous sodium hydroxide solution and stirred for 1 h. The methanol was distilled off on a rotary evaporator and the aqueous residue was extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic phase was dried over sodium sulphate concentrated under reduced pressure and dried under high vacuum. This gave 530 mg of the title compound 73 of theory .

530 mg 1.57 mmol of 1 2 fluorobenzyl 6 trifluoromethyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine 3 carboximidamide Ex. 87A were dissolved in ethanol and 98 mg of a 80 strength hydrazine hydrate solution were added at 0 C. The mixture was allowed to warm to room temperature and stirred for 16 h. The reaction mixture was then concentrated on a rotary evaporator and the residue was taken up in ethyl acetate and washed three times with a saturated sodium chloride solution. The organic phase was dried over sodium sulphate concentrated on a rotary evaporator and dried under high vacuum. 495 mg of the title compound were obtained 69 purity 62 of theory .

490 mg 0.96 mmol purity 69 of 1 2 fluorobenzyl 6 trifluoromethyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine 3 carboximidohydrazide Ex. 88A were dissolved in 16 ml of ethanol 325 mg 1.73 mmol of dimethyl 2 2 dimethyl 3 oxobutanedioate see Daley 2002 124 3680 3691 were added and the mixture was stirred under reflux overnight. After cooling the reaction mixture was concentrated on a rotary evaporator the residue was stirred with diethyl ether and the precipitate was filtered off. The precipitate was purified by preparative HPLC acetonitrile water 0.05 formic acid gradient . This gave 265 mg of the title compound 50 of theory .

Under argon 500 mg 0.78 mmol of Example 69A 14.8 mg 0.08 mmol of copper I iodide 127 mg 1.51 mmol of sodium bicarbonate 0.31 ml 304.4 mg 3.1 mmol of ethyl propiolate and 54.6 mg 0.08 mmol of dichlorobistriphenylphosphinepalladium II in 7 ml of DMF were stirred at 60 C. overnight. Aqueous ammonium chloride solution was added and the mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic phases were dried and concentrated under reduced pressure and the residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel using cyclohexane ethyl acetate.

140 mg 0.23 mmol of Example 90A were dissolved in 15 ml of ethyl acetate 50 mg of 10 palladium on carbon were added and the mixture was hydrogenated at standard pressure for 3 h. Another 50 mg of 10 palladium on carbon were added and the mixture was hydrogenated overnight. The mixture was filtered through kieselguhr the filter cake was washed with ethyl acetate and the filtrate was concentrated. The residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient DCM MeOH 0.5 1 .

Under argon and at 0 C. 0.28 ml of a 1 M solution of methylmagnesium bromide in THF was added dropwise with stirring to 50 mg 0.08 mmol of Example 91A in THF external cooling was then removed and stirring was continued at RT for 2 h. A further 0.16 ml of the 1 M solution of methylmagnesium bromide in THF was then added and the mixture was stirred at RT overnight. Aqueous ammonium chloride solution was added and the mixture was extracted repeatedly with dichloromethane. The combined organic phases were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated. The crude product 42.8 mg 88 of theory was reacted further without purification.

6.0 g 14.87 mmol of 4 amino 2 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 5 5 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 6 one WO2012 004258 Example 13A were dissolved in 60 ml of trifluoroacetic acid and cooled in an ice bath. With stirring 6.7 ml of water and then in small portions over a period of 1 h 1.54 g 22.3 mmol of sodium nitrite were added. The reaction mixture was then poured into 250 ml of water and the resulting precipitate was filtered off. The solid was added to 50 ml of water the mixture was adjusted to pH 6 with conc. aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution the solid was triturated once more filtered off with suction washed with water and dried. Yield 5.75 g 94 of theory 

1.0 g 2.37 mmol of Example 60 were dissolved in 20 ml of anhydrous DMF and stirred with 847.6 mg 2.60 mmol of caesium carbonate and 0.32 ml 2.37 mmol of 4 methoxybenzyl chloride at RT for 2 h. 0.1 ml 0.71 mmol of 4 methoxybenzyl chloride was added and the mixture was stirred overnight. Water was added the reaction mixture was partially concentrated under reduced pressure and the residue was partitioned between ethyl acetate and water. The water phase was extracted repeatedly with ethyl acetate and the combined organic phases were dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated. The residue was purified first by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient DCM EE 0 20 and then by preparative HPLC gradient 0.1 formic acid in water 5 95 acetonitrile .

330 mg 0.61 mmol of Example 94A in 4.4 ml of DMF and 0.19 ml of ethyl cyanoacetate 1.82 mmol and 136.4 mg 1.22 mmol of potassium tert butoxide were stirred at RT for 5 min and at 60 C. overnight. Water was added the mixture was extracted repeatedly with ethyl acetate and the combined organic phases were concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by preparative HPLC gradient 0.1 formic acid in water 5 95 acetonitrile .

4 ml of a 2N solution of ammonia in ethanol were added to 119 mg 0.257 mmol of Example 10A and the mixture was then treated at 100 C. in a microwave for 30 min. This was followed by concentration to dryness. The residue obtained was purified by preparative HPLC acetonitrile water 0.05 formic acid gradient . This gave 16 mg of the title compound 14 of theory .

Phosphoryl chloride 1.861 ml was added to 148 mg 0.299 mmol of Example 13A and the mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. Without any further treatment this mixture was dissolved in 20 ml of acetonitrile and with ice cooling stirred into 13 ml of concentrated ammonia solution. The reaction mixture was stirred at RT overnight and concentrated on a rotary evaporator. Water and ethyl acetate were added to the residue and the phases were separated. The aqueous phase was extracted twice with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution and then dried over sodium sulphate filtered and concentrated on a rotary evaporator. The residue obtained was purified by preparative HPLC acetonitrile water 0.05 formic acid gradient . This gave 85 mg of the title compound 61 of theory .

290 mg 0.775 mmol of Example 8A were reacted analogously to the procedure of Example 9A with pentafluoroethyl trimethylsilane. This gave 218 mg of the title compound 57 of theory .

233 mg 0.454 mmol of Example 14A were reacted analogously to the procedure of Example 1. This gave 22 mg of the title compound 9 of theory .

3 ml of phosphoryl chloride were added to 270 mg 0.546 mmol of the compound from Example 27A and the mixture was stirred at RT overnight. The reaction mixture was then dissolved in 36 ml of acetonitrile and with ice cooling stirred into a mixture of 36 ml of concentrated aqueous ammonia solution 33 strength . The mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The mixture was then concentrated to dryness. The residue was taken up in ethyl acetate and water and the phases were separated. The aqueous phase was extracted twice with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulphate filtered and concentrated. Acetonitrile was added to the residue. A precipitate formed which was filtered off and washed with a little acetonitrile. After drying under high vacuum this gave 158 mg 64 of theory of the title compound.

137 mg of the racemate obtained were separated into the enantiomers by preparative SFC mobile phase CO ethanol 71 29 pressure 150 bar flow rate 114 g min temperature mobile phase 38 C. wavelength 210 nm on a chiral phase Daicel Chiralpak AD H SFC 5 M 250 20 mm 

450 mg 0.803 mmol of the compound from Example 29A were reacted analogously to the procedure of Example 5. This gave 204 mg 49 of theory of the title compound.

323 mg 0.689 mmol of the compound from Example 31A were reacted analogously to the procedure of Example 5. After drying under high vacuum this gave 188 mg 63 of theory of the title compound.

185 mg of the racemate obtained were separated into the enantiomers by preparative SFC mobile phase CO ethanol 70 30 pressure 150 bar flow rate 114 g min temperature mobile phase 38 C. wavelength 254 nm on a chiral phase Daicel Chiralpak AD H SFC 5 M 250 20 mm 

6.04 g 13.350 mmol of the compound from Example 36A were reacted analogously to the procedure of Example 5. After drying under high vacuum this gave 1.27 g 22 of theory of the title compound.

0.456 g 0.978 mmol of the compound from Example 38A were reacted analogously to the procedure of Example 5. After drying under high vacuum this gave 0.274 g 64 of theory of the title compound.

0.111 mg 0.201 mmol of the compound from Example 41A were stirred in dichloromethane 4 ml and trifluoroacetic acid 1 ml at room temperature for 3 h. The mixture was then concentrated to dryness. The residue was stirred in ethanol 2N hydrochloric acid 4 1 10 ml at 45 C. for 3 h. This was followed by concentration to dryness. The residue obtained was purified by preparative HPLC methanol water 1 trifluoroacetic acid gradient . This gave 29 mg of the title compound 34 of theory .

88 mg 0.156 mmol of the compound from Example 42A were reacted analogously to the procedure of Example 10. Purification by preparative HPLC methanol water gradient gave 29 mg of the title compound 42 of theory .

81 mg 0.148 mmol of the compound from Example 43A were reacted analogously to Example 10. Purification by preparative HPLC acetonitrile water 1 trifluoroacetic acid gradient gave 17 mg of the title compound 27 of theory .

40 mg 0.078 mmol of the compound from Example 45A were reacted analogously to the procedure of Example 5. After purification by preparative HPLC acetonitrile water 0.05 formic acid gradient this gave 16 mg 44 of theory of the title compound.

Under an atmosphere of argon 150 mg 0.18 mmol of 2 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 4 iodo 5 5 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 6 one Example 47A were suspended in 4 ml of absolute dioxane 91 mg 0.54 mmol of 6 ethoxypyridin 3 yl boronic acid 10 mg 0.04 mmol of tricyclohexylphosphine and 0.72 ml 0.72 mmol of 1 N aqueous potassium carbonate solution were added and the mixture was stirred in a stream of argon for 10 min. 20 mg 0.03 mmol of 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocenepalladium II chloride and 31 mg 0.03 mmol of tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 were added and the mixture was stirred at 140 C. in a microwave for 30 min. After cooling the reaction mixture was filtered through an Extrelut cartridge the cartridge was rinsed with dichloromethane methanol v v 2 1 and the filtrate was concentrated on a rotary evaporator. The residue was purified by preparative HPLC mobile phase acetonitrile water gradient 20 80 100 0 . 29 mg of the target compound were obtained 30 of theory .

Under an atmosphere of argon 150 mg 0.18 mmol of 2 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 4 iodo 5 5 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 6 one Example 47A were suspended in 4 ml of absolute dioxane 105 mg 0.54 mmol of 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H pyrazole and 0.72 ml 0.72 mmol of 1 N aqueous potassium carbonate solution were added and the mixture was stirred in a stream of argon for 10 min. 42 mg 0.04 mmol of tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 were added and the mixture was stirred at 140 C. in a microwave for 30 min. After cooling the reaction mixture was filtered through an Extrelut cartridge the cartridge was rinsed with dichloromethane methanol v v 2 1 and the filtrate was concentrated on a rotary evaporator. The residue was purified by preparative HPLC mobile phase acetonitrile water gradient 20 80 100 0 . 66 mg of the target compound were obtained 80 of theory .

Under an atmosphere of argon 1.000 g 1.23 mmol of 2 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 4 iodo 5 5 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 6 one Example 47A and 243 mg 3.68 mmol of ethynylcyclopropane were initially charged in 20 ml of absolute THF. 372 mg 3.68 mmol of diisopropylamine 70 mg 0.37 mmol of copper I iodide and 172 mg 0.25 mmol of dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II were added and the mixture was heated at reflux for 48 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated and the residue was taken up in DMSO. The mixture was filtered and the filtrate was purified by preparative HPLC mobile phase acetonitrile water gradient 20 80 100 0 . This gave 198 mg of the target compound purity 89 32 of theory .

140 mg 0.28 mmol of 4 cyclopropylethynyl 2 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 5 5 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 6 one Ex. 16 were dissolved in 14 ml of absolute THF. The solution was hydrogenated in a flow hydrogenation reactor H Cube from Thales Nano Budapest model HC 2 SS fitted with a 10 palladium on carbon cartridge at a hydrogen pressure of 10 bar. The reaction mixture was concentrated and the residue was purified by preparative HPLC mobile phase acetonitrile water gradient 20 80 100 0 . 54 mg of the target compound were obtained 43 of theory .

140 mg 0.28 mmol of 4 cyclopropylethynyl 2 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 5 5 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 6 one Ex. 16 were dissolved in 14 ml of absolute THF. The solution was hydrogenated in an H Cube from Thales Nano Budapest model HC 2 SS fitted with a 10 palladium on carbon cartridge at a hydrogen pressure of 10 bar. The reaction mixture was concentrated and the residue was purified by preparative HPLC mobile phase acetonitrile water gradient 20 80 100 0 . 23 mg of the target compound were obtained 18 of theory .

8 ml of phosphoryl chloride were added to 255 mg 0.46 mmol of methyl 2 3 1 2 fluorobenzyl 6 trifluoromethyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 5 hydroxy 1 2 4 triazin 6 yl 2 methylpropanoate Ex. 89A and the mixture was stirred at RT for 1.5 h. With ice cooling the reaction mixture was stirred into 50 ml of a concentrated aqueous ammonia solution 35 strength . The mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The precipitate was filtered off washed with water and recrystallized from ethanol. This gave 98 mg 47 of theory of the title compound.

100 mg 0.183 mmol of Example 56A in DMF 10 ml were hydrogenated with palladium on carbon 10 at standard pressure. After complete conversion the mixture was filtered through Celite the filter residue was washed with DMF the filtrate was concentrated and the residue was purified by preparative HPLC acetonitrile water 0.05 formic acid gradient . This gave 61 mg of the target compound 80 of theory .

522 mg 1.150 mmol of Example 54A were reacted analogously to the procedure of Example 5. After purification by preparative HPLC acetonitrile water 0.05 formic acid gradient this gave 90 mg of the target compound 18 of theory .

Under argon 500 mg 0.49 mmol of Example 47A were initially charged in dioxane. 19.8 mg 0.02 mmol of PdCl dppf CHClwere then added and 0.97 ml 1.94 mmol of a 2M solution of dimethylzinc in toluene was added dropwise over a period of 15 min. After 20 min of stirring under argon the reaction mixture was heated in a microwave at 120 C. for 4 h. Water was then added carefully at 10 C. and the mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by preparative HPLC gradient of 0.1 formic acid in water acetonitrile 10 95 . This gave 270.8 mg of the target compound 69 of theory .

The crude product of the compound from Example 58A was carefully diluted with 50 ml of acetonitrile and slowly added dropwise to a 33 strength aqueous ammonia solution cooled to 0 C. 80 ml temperature increase to 12 C. . The 2 phase mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The phases were separated and the aqueous phase was extracted twice with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated. The residue was purified by preparative HPLC gradient water 0.05 formic acid acetonitrile 20 95 . This gave 415.9 mg of the target compound 66 of theory .

Under argon 55 mg 0.091 mmol 79 pure of Example 45 were initially charged in 0.564 ml of dichloromethane and 0.564 ml of DMF. 35 l 0.20 mmol of N N diisopropylethylamine and 8 l 0.1 mmol of methanesulphonyl chloride were then added. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. The mixture was then freed from the solvent under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient CH EA 0 100 . This gave 9.9 mg 22 of theory of the target compound.

Under argon 343 mg 8.58 mmol of 60 sodium hydride were initially charged in 10 ml of 1 methyl 2 pyrrolidone. 0.651 ml 4.29 mmol of ethyl malonate was then added slowly. After 5 min of stirring 290 mg 0.82 mmol of Example 64A were added. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 15 min and then heated to 120 C. overnight. The mixture was partitioned between ethyl acetate and saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution the phases were separated and the aqueous phase was extracted twice with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by preparative HPLC gradient water 0.05 formic acid acetonitrile 10 95 . This gave 46.5 mg 13 of theory of the target compound.

50 mg 0.12 mmol of Example 28 were initially charged in 2 ml of acetonitrile. 3 ml of dioxane were then added. At room temperature 0.70 mg 0.003 mmol of ruthenium trichloride hydrate and 180 mg 0.842 mmol of sodium periodate dissolved in 1 ml of water were added. The mixture was then stirred at room temperature overnight. The mixture was then partitioned between ethyl acetate and water and the phases were separated. The aqueous phase was extracted twice with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by preparative HPLC acetonitrile water 0.05 formic acid gradient . This gave 13.1 mg 25 of theory of the target compound.

The crude product from Example 71A 0.06 mmol was dissolved in 1 ml of dioxane. 1 ml of 2 N aqueous hydrochloric acid was then added and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 h. The mixture was taken up in acetonitrile and purified by prep. HPLC gradient of water with 0.1 formic acid acetonitrile 10 95 . The product fractions mixture of Ex. 71A and Ex. 27 were dissolved in 2 ml of acetonitrile and 1 ml of ethanol 1 ml of 1 N aqueous hydrochloric acid was added and after 5 h at RT the mixture was once more purified by preparative HPLC gradient of water with 0.1 formic acid acetonitrile 10 95 . This gave 9 mg 18 of theory purity 70 of the target compound.

10 g 21.62 mmol of Example 66A in 180 ml 1.95 mmol of phosphoryl chloride were stirred at room temperature overnight. The intermediate rac ethyl 2 5 chloro 3 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 1 2 4 triazin 6 yl 2 methylpent 4 enoate was detected in the LC MS 

The reaction solution was diluted with 944 ml of anhydrous acetonitrile and slowly added dropwise to a 33 strength aqueous ammonia solution 1.18 l cooled to 0 C. temperature increase to 12 C. . The mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. In each case 1 l of water and ethyl acetate were added and the reaction solution was stirred well. The phases were separated and the aqueous phase was re extracted with 500 ml of ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases were washed with 500 ml saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution. After drying over sodium sulphate the mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure. This gave 4.70 g 33 of theory purity 64 of the title compound.

A sample was purified by prep. HPLC water with 0.05 formic acid acetonitrile gradient 20 95 acetonitrile .

Under argon 200 mg 0.39 mmol of Example 47A were initially charged in 8 ml of dioxane. 31.8 mg 0.04 mmol of PdCl dppf CHClwere then added and 3.11 ml 1.56 mmol of a 0.5 M solution of isobutylzinc bromide in tetrahydrofuran were added dropwise. The mixture was then heated in a microwave at 120 C. for 3 h. Water was added carefully and the mixture was extracted with dichloromethane. The organic phase was dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated under reduced pressure and the residue was purified by preparative HPLC gradient of 0.1 formic acid in water acetonitrile 60 85 . This gave 51.7 mg 30 of theory of the target compound.

Under argon 200 mg 0.39 mmol of Example 47A were initially charged in 8 ml of dioxane. 31.8 mg 0.04 mmol of PdCl dppf CHClwere then added and 2.05 ml 1.57 mmol of the solution from Example 72A were added dropwise. The mixture was then heated in a microwave at 120 C. for 3 h. Once more the same amounts of PdCl dppf CHCland the solution from Example 72A were added and the mixture was heated in a microwave for a further 3 h. Water was added carefully and the mixture was extracted with dichloromethane. The organic phase was dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated under reduced pressure and the residue was purified by prep. HPLC gradient of 0.1 formic acid in water acetonitrile 60 85 . This gave 50 mg 30 of theory of the target compound.

Under argon 200 mg 0.39 mmol of Example 47A were initially charged in 8 ml of dioxane. 25.4 mg 0.03 mmol of PdCl dppf CHClwere then added and 1.92 ml 1.56 mmol of the solution from Example 73A were added dropwise. The mixture was then heated in a microwave at 120 C. for 3 h. Water was added carefully and the mixture was extracted with dichloromethane. The organic phase was dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated under reduced pressure and the residue was purified by prep. HPLC gradient of 0.1 formic acid in water acetonitrile 60 85 . This gave 54 mg 28 of theory of the target compound.

Under argon 200 mg 0.39 mmol of Example 47A were initially charged in 5 ml of dioxane. 7.9 mg 0.01 mmol of PdCl dppf CHClwere then added and 3.11 ml 1.56 mmol of a 0.5 M solution of propylzinc bromide in tetrahydrofuran were added dropwise. The mixture was then heated in a microwave at 120 C. for 3 h and at 140 C. for 2 h. A further 20 mg 0.03 mmol of PdCl dppf CHCland 1.6 ml 0.80 mmol of 0.5 M propylzinc bromide solution were added and the mixture was heated in a microwave at 120 C. for 3 h. Water was added carefully and the mixture was extracted with dichloromethane. The organic phase was dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue 254 mg was purified by silica gel chromatography mobile phase DCM acetonitrile 3 1 and then by prep. HPLC gradient of 0.1 formic acid in water acetonitrile 60 85 . This gave 46 mg 27 of theory of the target compound.

Under an atmosphere of argon 874.4 mg 1.53 mmol of Example 43 were dissolved in 15 ml of N N dimethylformamide and 200 mg of 10 palladium on activated carbon were added. The mixture was hydrogenated at standard pressure. After addition of a further 100 mg of 10 palladium on activated carbon the mixture was once more hydrogenated at standard pressure overnight. Another 50 mg of 10 palladium on activated carbon were added and the mixture was hydrogenated at standard pressure for another night. The mixture was filtered through Celite and concentrated. Drying under high vacuum gave 1.19 g of crude target compound which was processed further as such. A sample was purified by prep. HPLC gradient of 0.05 formic acid in water acetonitrile 30 95 .

167.5 mg 0.36 mmol of Example 77A were initially charged in 5 ml of toluene and with 154.5 mg 0.38 mmol of 4 methoxyphenyldithiophosphonic anhydride stirred at a bath temperature of 100 C. for 3 h and allowed to stand at room temperature overnight. After addition of 2 ml of tetrahydrofuran the mixture was stirred at 100 C. for a further 3 h. 73.6 mg 0.18 mmol of 4 methoxyphenyldithiophosphonic anhydride were added and the mixture was stirred at 100 C. overnight. The mixture was then purified by prep. HPLC gradient of 0.05 formic acid in water 20 95 acetonitrile . This gave 84.5 mg 51 of theory of the target compound.

Under an atmosphere of argon 200 mg 0.24 mmol purity 62 of Example 47A were suspended in 5 ml of dioxane and 162.83 mg 0.72 mmol of 2 methyl 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1 3 thiazole and 0.96 ml 0.96 mmol of 1 N aqueous potassium carbonate solution were added. After 10 min 55 mg 0.05 mmol of tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 were added and the mixture was stirred at 140 C. in a microwave for 1 h. Another 162.83 mg 0.72 mmol of 2 methyl 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1 3 thiazole were added followed by 20.28 mg 0.07 mmol of tricyclohexylphosphine and 26.46 mg 0.04 mmol of 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocenepalladium II chloride. After 1 h at 140 C. in the microwave the mixture was filtered and separated twice by prep. HPLC acetonitrile water 0.1 formic acid gradient . This gave 11 mg 9 of theory of the target compound.

1H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d ppm 1.51 s 6H 2.78 s 3H 5.88 s 2H 7.07 7.18 m 1H 7.18 7.28 m 2H 7.31 7.41 m 1H 7.51 dd 1H 8.31 s 1H 8.70 dd 1H 8.93 m 1H 11.87 br s 1H .

200 mg 0.24 mmol purity 62 of Example 47A were reacted analogously to Example 35 with 173 mg 0.72 mmol of 2 4 dimethyl 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1 3 thiazole. This gave 40 mg of the title compound 27 of theory .

200 mg 0.24 mmol purity 62 of Example 47A were reacted analogously to Example 35 with 193 mg 0.72 mmol of 2 isopropyl 4 methyl 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1 3 thiazole. This gave 60 mg of the title compound 44 of theory .

200 mg 0.24 mmol purity 62 of Example 47A were reacted analogously to Example 35 with 101 mg 0.72 mmol of 1 3 dimethyl 1H pyrazol 5 yl boronic acid. This gave 41 mg of the title compound 33 of theory .

200 mg 0.24 mmol purity 62 of Example 47A were reacted analogously to Example 35 with 171 mg 0.72 mmol of 1 isopropyl 3 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H pyrazole. This gave 58 mg of the title compound 45 of theory .

200 mg 0.24 mmol purity 62 of Example 47A were reacted analogously to Example 35 with 150 mg 0.72 mmol of 1 methyl 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H pyrazole. This gave 45 mg of the title compound 38 of theory .

Under an atmosphere of argon 200 mg 0.24 mmol purity 62 of Example 47A were suspended in 5 ml of dioxane and 140 mg 0.72 mmol of 1 methyl 3 trifluoromethyl 1H pyrazol 5 yl boronic acid and 0.96 ml 0.96 mmol of 1 N aqueous potassium carbonate solution were added. After 10 min 55 mg 0.05 mmol of tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 were added. After 1 h at 140 C. in the microwave the mixture was filtered and separated by prep. HPLC acetonitrile water 0.1 formic acid gradient . This gave 70 mg 54 of theory of the target compound.

200 mg 0.24 mmol purity 62 of Example 47A were reacted analogously to Example 41 with 108 mg 0.72 mmol of 5 cyano 1 methyl 1H pyrrol 2 yl boronic acid. This gave 77 mg of the title compound 62 of theory .

Under an atmosphere of argon 1 g 2.17 mmol of Example 75A was initially charged in 6.3 ml isopentyl nitrite and 9.44 ml of diiodomethane and the mixture was stirred at a bath temperature of 85 C. overnight. After cooling the mixture was concentrated and the residue was purified twice by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase dichloromethane methanol then cyclohexane ethyl acetate . After drying under high vacuum 887.5 mg of the title compound were obtained 72 of theory .

Under argon 23.7 mg of 10 palladium on activated carbon were initially charged in 1 ml of acetic acid and 1.22 g 1.68 mmol of crude substance from Example 81A dissolved in 10 ml of acetic acid and 6 ml of DMF were added. The mixture was hydrogenated at room temperature under standard pressure overnight and 10 ml of DMF and 300 mg of 10 palladium on activated carbon were then added. After 4 days of hydrogenation at room temperature under standard pressure another 300 mg of 10 palladium on activated carbon and 10 ml of DMF were added. After one night of hydrogenation at room temperature and 3 bar 10 ml of acetic acid and 300 mg of 10 palladium on activated carbon were added. After one night of hydrogenation at 3 bar another 300 mg of 10 palladium on activated carbon were added. After a further night of hydrogenation at 3 bar the mixture was filtered off through Celite the filter cake was washed with DMF and the mother liquor was concentrated under reduced pressure and dried under high vacuum overnight. Part of the residue was purified by preparative HPLC gradient 0.05 formic acid in water 10 95 acetonitrile . This gave 23.7 mg 3 of theory of the title compound.

The remaining residue from the preparation of Example 44 was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase dichloromethane methanol 3 10 . This gave 327 mg 39 of theory of the title compound as the acetate.

375 mg 0.57 mmol purity 69 of Example 63 were dissolved in tetrahydrofuran and the mixture was diluted with 50 ml of ethanol and hydrogenated with 120 mg 0.11 mmol of 10 palladium on activated carbon at standard pressure overnight. The mixture was filtered through Celite concentrated under reduced pressure and separated by preparative HPLC gradient 0.1 formic acid in water acetonitrile . Drying under high vacuum gave 130 mg 50 of theory of the title compound.

Under an atmosphere of argon 76.5 mg of 10 palladium on activated carbon were initially charged in 1 ml of N N dimethylformamide 190 mg 0.30 mmol of rac ethyl 4 bromo 5 methyl 6 oxo 2 1 3 3 4 4 4 pentafluorobutyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 6 7 dihydro 5H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine 5 carboxylate WO 2011 14992 Ex. 187A dissolved in 18 ml of N N dimethylformamide were added and the mixture was hydrogenated at room temperature under standard pressure overnight. Another 85 mg of 10 palladium on activated carbon were then added and the mixture was hydrogenated at room temperature under standard pressure for 4 days. The mixture was filtered off through Celite and the filter cake was washed with N N dimethylformamide. The filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure and purified by preparative HPLC gradient 0.1 formic acid in water 60 90 methanol . This gave 36 mg 19 of theory purity 77 of the title compound.

Under an atmosphere of argon 34 mg 0.05 mmol purity 77 of Example 47 in 0.5 ml of methanol with 30.86 mg 0.54 mmol of cyclopropylamine were stirred in a microwave at 80 C. for one day and purified by preparative HPLC gradient 0.1 formic acid in water 60 90 methanol . 13.5 mg 50 of theory of the title compound were obtained.

Under an atmosphere of argon 30 mg of 10 palladium on activated carbon were initially charged in 2 ml of N N dimethylformamide and 111 mg 0.12 mmol purity 60 of Example 61A dissolved in 8 ml of N N dimethylformamide were added. The mixture was hydrogenated at room temperature overnight and then filtered through Celite and the filter residue was washed with N N dimethylformamide. The filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure and the residue was purified by preparative HPLC gradient 0.05 formic acid in water 20 95 acetonitrile . 32 mg 60 of theory of the title compound were obtained.

Under argon 100 mg 0.19 mmol of Example 47A together with 98 mg 0.78 mmol of tert butyl propiolate 3.7 mg 0.02 mmol of copper I iodide 32.7 mg 0.39 mmol of sodium bicarbonate and 6.8 mg 0.01 mmol of dichlorobistriphenylphosphinepalladium II in 1 ml of DMF were stirred at 60 C. overnight. 98 mg 0.78 mmol of tert butyl propiolate 3.7 mg 0.02 mmol of copper I iodide 32.7 mg 0.39 mmol of sodium bicarbonate and 6.8 mg 0.01 mmol of dichlorobistriphenylphosphinepalladium II were then added and the mixture was stirred at 60 C. for a further 10 h. Water was added and the mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic phases were dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated. The residue was purified by preparative HPLC gradient 0.1 formic acid in water 5 95 acetonitrile .

2.03 g 2.96 mmol of Example 88A were reacted analogously to Example 28. The intermediate rac ethyl 2 5 chloro 3 5 fluoro 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 1 2 4 triazin 6 yl 2 methylpent 4 enoate was detected in the LC MS 

The intermediate was reacted further analogously to Example 28. The crude product was purified by means of preparative HPLC gradient 1 ammonia in water acetonitrile 5 95 . This gave 0.78 g 89 of theory of the title compound.

725 mg 1.67 mmol of Example 51 were initially charged in 28 ml of acetonitrile and 42 ml of dioxane 9.76 mg 0.043 mmol of ruthenium trichloride hydrate and 2.50 g of sodium periodate dissolved in 14 ml of water were added. The mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight and partitioned between ethyl acetate and water the phases were separated and the aqueous phase was extracted twice with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases were washed once with saturated sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulphate concentrated under reduced pressure and purified by means of preparative HPLC gradient 0.05 formic acid in water 10 95 acetonitrile . 172.6 mg 20 of theory of the title compound were obtained.

Analogously to the preparation of Example 50 100 mg 0.16 mmol purity 84 of Example 47A were reacted with 96 mg 0.98 mmol of ethyl propiolate in two portions . The crude product was purified by preparative HPLC gradient 0.1 formic acid in water 5 95 acetonitrile and flash chromatography on silica gel gradient CH EA 25 33 .

Under an atmosphere of argon 80 mg 0.16 mmol of Example 45 were initially charged in 1 ml of dichloromethane and 1 ml of DMF and 62 l 0.36 mmol of N N diisopropylethylamine and 20 l 0.18 mmol of 4 chlorobutanoyl chloride were added. After 8 h of stirring at room temperature the mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and 1 ml of DMF and 7.8 mg 0.19 mmol of 60 sodium hydride were added. After 8 h of stirring at room temperature the mixture was heated at 50 C. for 8 h. After another addition of 7.8 mg 0.19 mmol of 60 sodium hydride the mixture was stirred at 90 C. for 3 h. The mixture was cooled 1 M aqueous hydrochloric acid was added and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 10 min and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by preparative HPLC gradient 0.05 formic acid in water 20 95 acetonitrile . This gave 11.3 mg 14 of theory of the title compound.

Under an atmosphere of argon 62 l 0.36 mmol of N N diisopropylethylamine and 18 l 0.180 mmol of cyclopropanesulphonyl chloride were added to 80 mg 0.16 mmol of Example 45 in 1 ml of dichloromethane and 1 ml of DMF and the mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and the residue was purified by preparative HPLC gradient 0.05 formic acid in water 20 95 acetonitrile . 52.5 mg 60 of theory of the title compound were obtained.

80 mg 016 mmol of Example 44 were reacted analogously to Example 55 with 16 l 0.18 mmol of cyclopropanecarbonyl chloride. 61.8 mg 76 of theory of the title compound were obtained.

Under an atmosphere of argon 50 mg 0.04 mmol of Example 45 were initially charged in 2 ml of DMF and 17 l 0.10 mmol of N N diisopropylethylamine and 9 l 0.06 mmol of 2 2 2 trifluoroethyl trichloromethanesulphonate were added. After stirring at room temperature overnight the mixture was left at room temperature over the weekend and then purified by preparative HPLC gradient 0.05 formic acid in water 20 95 acetonitrile . 15 mg 67 of theory of the title compound were obtained.

Under argon 2.84 ml 2.30 mmol of the 0.81 molar solution of Example 73A were added dropwise to 153.3 mg 0.29 mmol of 2 5 fluoro 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 4 iodo 5 5 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 6 one described in WO2012 004258 Ex. 56A and PdCl dppf CHClin 6 ml of dioxane. After 3 h of stirring in a microwave at 120 C. another 18.8 mg 0.02 mmol of PdCl dppf CHCland 2.84 ml 2.30 mmol of the 0.81 molar solution of Example 73A were added. After a further 3 h of stirring at 120 C. in a microwave water was added and the mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic phases were concentrated under reduced pressure and purified by preparative HPLC gradient 0.1 formic acid in water 5 95 acetonitrile . 32.8 mg 22 of theory of the title compound were obtained.

39.9 mg 0.07 mmol of Example 92A were dissolved in 0.97 ml of dichloromethane 0.39 ml of TFA were added and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 4 h. The solvents were removed under reduced pressure and the residue was dried under high vacuum. The intermediate 2 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 7 hydroxymethyl 4 3 hydroxy 3 methylbutyl 5 5 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 6 one was detected in the LC MS 

The residue was dissolved in 2 ml of dioxane and stirred with 2 ml of 0.5 M aqueous hydrochloric acid at room temperature for 1 d and under reflux for 5 h. The mixture was diluted with acetonitrile and purified by preparative HPLC gradient 0.1 formic acid in water 5 95 acetonitrile .

6.4 g 15.83 mmol of Example 93A 2 1 2 fluorobenzyl 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridin 3 yl 4 hydroxy 5 5 dimethyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 6 one in 50 ml of phosphorus oxychloride were stirred at a bath temperature of 105 C. for 4 h. The phosphorus oxychloride was then removed under reduced pressure and the residue was under external cooling with ice water triturated with solid ice. The residue was allowed to stand at RT until the ice had melted and the precipitate formed was filtered off washed with water and dried under high vacuum.

40 mg 0.065 mmol of Example 95A were dissolved in 2.6 ml of trifluoroacetic acid 35 l 0.207 mmol of trifluoromethanesulphonic anhydride were added and the mixture was stirred in a microwave at 120 C. for 15 min. 70 l 0.414 mmol of trifluoromethanesulphonic anhydride were added and the mixture was heated in a microwave at 120 C. for another 15 min. The mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and the residue was purified by preparative HPLC gradient 0.1 formic acid in water 5 95 acetonitrile .

12.9 mg 0.025 mmol of Example 62 were stirred in 1.3 ml of dichloromethane and 0.3 ml of TFA at RT for 3 d. The mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and the residue was purified by preparative HPLC gradient 0.1 formic acid in water 5 95 acetonitrile .

Under argon 1 g 1.23 mmol purity 63 of Example 47A and 0.29 ml 3.68 mmol of 3 methoxyprop 1 yne were initially charged in 19 ml of THF and 0.52 ml 3.68 mmol of diisopropylamine 69.99 mg 0.37 mmol of copper I iodide and 171.96 mg 0.25 mmol of dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II were added. After 2 days of stirring under reflux the mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure dissolved in dimethyl sulphoxide filtered and separated by preparative HPLC acetonitrile water with 0.1 formic acid gradient . This gave 380 mg 47 of theory purity 69 of the title compound.

Under argon 143 mg 0.30 mmol of Example 53 were dissolved in 8 ml of ethyl acetate and hydrogenated with 25 mg of 10 palladium on carbon under standard pressure overnight. The catalyst was filtered off through silica gel and washed with ethyl acetate and the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by preparative HPLC gradient 0.1 formic acid in water 5 95 acetonitrile .

THF were added dropwise to a solution of 33 mg 0.07 mmol of Example 64 in 0.7 ml of anhydrous THF. After 10 min cooling was removed and the mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. Methanol and 5 M formic acid were added and the solvents were removed under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by preparative HPLC gradient 0.1 formic acid in water 5 95 acetonitrile .

The pharmacological effect of the compounds according to the invention can be shown in the following assays 

Rabbits are stunned by a blow to the neck and exsanguinated. The aorta is removed freed from adhering tissue and divided into rings of a width of 1.5 mm. The rings are placed individually under an initial tension in 5 ml organ baths with Krebs Henseleit solution which is at 37 C. is gassed with carbogen and has the following composition in each case mM sodium chloride 119 potassium chloride 4.8 calcium chloride dihydrate 1 magnesium sulphate heptahydrate 1.4 potassium dihydrogenphosphate 1.2 sodium bicarbonate 25 glucose 10. The contractile force is determined with Statham UC2 cells amplified and digitalized using A D transducers DAS 1802 HC Keithley Instruments Munich and recorded in parallel on linear recorders.

To produce a contraction phenylephrine is added to the bath cumulatively in increasing concentration. After several control cycles the substance to be investigated is added in each further run in increasing dosage in each case and the height of the contraction achieved is compared with the height of the contraction reached in the last preceding run. This is used to calculate the concentration needed to reduce the magnitude of the control value by 50 ICvalue . The standard administration volume is 5 l the DMSO content in the bath solution corresponds to 0.1 .

Representative ICvalues for the compounds according to the invention are shown in the table below Table 1 

The cellular activity of the compounds according to the invention is determined using a recombinant guanylate cyclase reporter cell line as described in F. Wunder et al. 339 104 112 2005 .

Representative values MEC minimum effective concentration for the compounds according to the invention are shown in the table below Table 2 

A commercially available telemetry system from DATA SCIENCES INTERNATIONAL DSI USA is employed for the blood pressure measurement on conscious rats described below.

The telemetry system makes it possible to continuously record blood pressure heart rate and body motion of conscious animals in their usual habitat.

The investigations are carried out on adult female spontaneously hypertensive rats SHR Okamoto with a body weight of 200 g. SHR NCrl from the Okamoto Kyoto School of Medicine 1963 were a cross of male Wistar Kyoto rats with highly elevated blood pressure and female rats having a slightly elevated blood pressure and at F13 handed over to the U.S. National Institutes of Health.

After transmitter implantation the experimental animals are housed singly in type 3 Makrolon cages. They have free access to standard feed and water.

The day night rhythm in the experimental laboratory is changed by the room lighting at 6 00 am and at 7 00 pm.

The telemetry transmitters TA11 PA C40 used are surgically implanted under aseptic conditions in the experimental animals at least 14 days before the first experimental use. The animals instrumented in this way can be employed repeatedly after the wound has healed and the implant has settled.

For the implantation the fasted animals are anaesthetized with pentobarbital Nembutal Sanofi 50 mg kg i.p. and shaved and disinfected over a large area of their abdomens. After the abdominal cavity has been opened along the linea alba the liquid filled measuring catheter of the system is inserted into the descending aorta in the cranial direction above the bifurcation and fixed with tissue glue VetBonD 3M . The transmitter housing is fixed intraperitoneally to the abdominal wall muscle and layered closure of the wound is performed.

An antibiotic Tardomyocel COMP Bayer 1 ml kg s.c. is administered postoperatively for prophylaxis of infection.

Unless stated otherwise the substances to be studied are administered orally by gavage to a group of animals in each case n 6 . In accordance with an administration volume of 5 ml kg of body weight the test substances are dissolved in suitable solvent mixtures or suspended in 0.5 tylose.

The telemetry measuring unit present is configured for 24 animals. Each experiment is recorded under an experiment number Vyear month day .

Each of the instrumented rats living in the system is assigned a separate receiving antenna 1010 Receiver DSI .

The implanted transmitters can be activated externally by means of an incorporated magnetic switch and are switched to transmission in the run up to the experiment. The signals emitted can be detected online by a data acquisition system Dataquest A.R.T. for WINDOWS DSI and processed accordingly. The data are stored in each case in a file created for this purpose and bearing the experiment number.

The acquisition of measurements is repeated under computer control at 5 minute intervals. The source data obtained as absolute value are corrected in the diagram with the currently measured barometric pressure Ambient Pressure Reference Monitor APR 1 and stored as individual data. Further technical details are given in the extensive documentation from the manufacturing company DSI .

Unless indicated otherwise the test substances are administered at 9.00 am on the day of the experiment. Following the administration the parameters described above are measured over 24 hours.

After the end of the experiment the acquired individual data are sorted using the analysis software DATAQUEST A.R.T. ANALYSIS . The blank value is assumed to be the time 2 hours before administration and so the selected data set encompasses the period from 7.00 am on the day of the experiment to 9.00 am the following day.

The data are smoothed over a presettable time by determination of the average 15 minute average and transferred as a text file to a storage medium. The measured values presorted and compressed in this way are transferred into Excel templates and tabulated. For each day of the experiment the data obtained are stored in a dedicated file bearing the number of the experiment. Results and test protocols are filed in paper form sorted by numbers.

The pharmacokinetic parameters of the inventive compounds are determined in male CD 1 mice male Wistar rats and female beagles. Intravenous administration in the case of mice and rats is effected by means of a species specific plasma DMSO formulation and in the case of dogs by means of a water PEG400 ethanol formulation. In all species oral administration of the dissolved substance is performed via gavage based on a water PEG400 ethanol formulation. The removal of blood from rats is simplified by inserting a silicone catheter into the right Vena jugularis externa prior to substance administration. The operation is effected at least one day prior to the experiment with isofluran anaesthesia and administration of an analgesic atropine rimadyl 3 1 0.1 ml s.c. . The blood is taken generally more than 10 time points within a time window including terminal time points of at least 24 to a maximum of 72 hours after substance administration. The blood is removed into heparinized tubes. The blood plasma is then obtained by centrifugation if required it can be stored at 20 C. until further processing.

An internal standard which may also be a chemically unrelated substance is added to the samples of the inventive compounds calibration samples and qualifiers and there follows protein precipitation by means of acetonitrile in excess. Addition of a buffer solution matched to the LC conditions and subsequent vortexing is followed by centrifugation at 1000 g. The supernatant is analysed by means of LC MS MS using C18 reversed phase columns and variable mobile phase mixtures. The substances are quantified via the peak heights or areas from extracted ion chromatograms of specific selected ion monitoring experiments.

The plasma concentration time plots determined are used to calculate the pharmacokinetic parameters such as AUC C biz terminal half life MRT mean residence time and CL clearance using a validated pharmacokinetic calculation program.

Since the substance quantification is performed in plasma it is necessary to determine the blood plasma distribution of the substance in order to be able to adjust the pharmacokinetic parameters correspondingly. For this purpose a defined amount of substance is incubated in heparinized whole blood of the species in question in a rocking roller mixer for 20 min. After centrifugation at 1000 g the plasma concentration is measured by means of LC MS MS see above and determined by calculating the ratio of the c cvalue.

To determine the metabolic profile of the compounds according to the invention they are incubated with recombinant human cytochrome P450 CYP enzymes liver microsomes or primary fresh hepatocytes from various animal species e.g. rats dogs and also of human origin in order to obtain and to compare information about a very substantially complete hepatic phase I and phase II metabolism and about the enzymes involved in the metabolism.

The compounds according to the invention were incubated with a concentration of about 0.1 10 M. To this end stock solutions of the compounds according to the invention having a concentration of 0.01 1 mM in acetonitrile were prepared and then pipetted with 1 100 dilution into the incubation mixture. Liver microsomes and recombinant enzymes were incubated at 37 C. in 50 mM potassium phosphate buffer pH 7.4 with and without NADPH generating system consisting of 1 mM NADP 10 mM glucose 6 phosphate and 1 unit glucose 6 phosphate dehydrogenase. Primary hepatocytes were incubated in suspension in Williams E medium likewise at 37 C. After an incubation time of 0 4 h the incubation mixtures were quenched with acetonitrile final concentration about 30 and the protein was centrifuged off at about 15 000 g. The samples thus stopped were either analysed directly or stored at 20 C. until analysis.

The analysis is effected by means of high performance liquid chromatography with ultraviolet and mass spectrometry detection HPLC UV MS MS . To this end the supernatants of the incubation samples are chromatographed with suitable C18 reversed phase columns and variable mobile phase mixtures of acetonitrile and 10 mM aqueous ammonium formate solution or 0.05 formic acid. The UV chromatograms in conjunction with mass spectrometry data serve for identification structural elucidation and quantitative estimation of the metabolites and for quantitative metabolic assessment of the compound according to the invention in the incubation mixtures.

PDE 5 preparations are obtained from human platelets by disruption Microfluidizer 800 bar 3 passes followed by centrifugation 75 000 g 60 min 4 C. and ion exchange chromatography of the supernatant on a Mono Q 10 10 column linear sodium chloride gradient elution with a 0.2 0.3M solution of sodium chloride in buffer 20 mM Hepes pH 7.2 2 mM magnesium chloride . Fractions having PDE 5 activity are combined PDE 5 preparation and stored at 80 C.

To determine their in vitro action on human PDE 5 the test substances are dissolved in 100 DMSO and serially diluted. Typically dilution series 1 3 from 200 M to 0.091 M are prepared resulting final concentrations in the test 4 M to 0.0018 M . In each case 2 l of the diluted substance solutions are placed into the wells of microtitre plates Isoplate 96 200W Perkin Elmer . Subsequently 50 l of a dilution of the above described PDE 5 preparation are added. The dilution of the PDE 5 preparation is chosen such that during the later incubation less than 70 of the substrate are converted typical dilution 1 100 dilution buffer 50 mM Tris hydrochloric acid pH 7.5 8.3 mM magnesium chloride 1.7 mM EDTA 0.2 BSA . The substrate 8 H cyclic guanosine 3 5 monophosphate 1 Ci l Perkin Elmer is diluted 1 2000 with assay buffer 50 mM tris hydrochloric acid pH 7.5 8.3 mM magnesium chloride 1.7 mM EDTA to a concentration of 0.0005 Ci l. By addition of 50 l 0.025 Ci of the diluted substrate the enzyme reaction is finally started. The test mixtures are incubated at room temperature for 60 min and the reaction is stopped by adding 25 l of a suspension of 18 mg ml yttrium scintillation proximity beads in water phosphodiesterase beads for SPA assays RPNQ 0150 Perkin Elmer . The microtitre plates are sealed with a film and left to stand at room temperature for 60 min. Subsequently the plates are analysed for 30 s per well in a Microbeta scintillation counter Perkin Elmer . ICvalues are determined using the graphic plot of the substance concentration against percentage PDE 5 inhibition.

The organ protective effects of the sGC stimulators were shown in a therapeutically relevant low nitric oxide NO high renin hypertension model in rats. The study was conducted following a recently published article Sharkovska Y Kalk P Lawrenz B Godes M Hoffmann L S Wellkisch K Geschka S Relle K Hocher B Stasch J P. NO independent stimulation of soluble guanylate cyclase reduces target organ damage in low and high renin models of hypertension. J. Hypertension. 2010 28 1666 1675 . This involved treating renin transgenic rats TGR mRen2 27 to which the NO synthase inhibitor L NAME had been administered via drinking water simultaneously with an sGC stimulator or vehicle over several weeks. Haemodynamic and renal parameters were determined during the treatment period. At the end of the long term study organ protection kidney lung heart aorta was shown by histopathological studies biomarkers expression analyses and cardiovascular plasma parameters.

100 mg of the compound according to the invention 50 mg of lactose monohydrate 50 mg of corn starch native 10 mg of polyvinylpyrrolidone PVP 25 BASF Ludwigshafen Germany and 2 mg of magnesium stearate.

The mixture of compound according to the invention lactose and starch is granulated with a 5 solution w w of the PVP in water. The granules are dried and mixed with the magnesium stearate for 5 minutes. This mixture is pressed with a conventional tableting press for tablet dimensions see above . The guide value used for the pressing is a pressing force of 15 kN.

1000 mg of the compound according to the invention 1000 mg of ethanol 96 400 mg of Rhodigel xanthan gum from FMC Pennsylvania USA and 99 g of water.

A single dose of 100 mg of the compound according to the invention corresponds to 10 ml of oral suspension.

The Rhodigel is suspended in ethanol and the compound according to the invention is added to the suspension. The water is added while stirring. The mixture is stirred for about 6 h until swelling of the Rhodigel is complete.

500 mg of the compound according to the invention 2.5 g of polysorbate and 97 g of polyethylene glycol 400. A single dose of 100 mg of the compound according to the invention corresponds to 20 g of oral solution.

The compound according to the invention is suspended in the mixture of polyethylene glycol and polysorbate while stirring. The stirring operation is continued until dissolution of the compound according to the invention is complete.

The compound according to the invention is dissolved in a concentration below the saturation solubility in a physiologically acceptable solvent e.g. isotonic saline glucose solution 5 and or PEG 400 solution 30 . The solution is subjected to sterile filtration and dispensed into sterile and pyrogen free injection vessels.

