---

title: Handover relation identification utilizing network events
abstract: Aspects relate to automatically establishing neighbor relations for adjacent sectors based on one or more network events. The neighbor relations can be established between sectors that can be identified as inter-frequency neighbors or intra-frequency neighbors. In an aspect, the network events can be active call data events received from one or more mobile devices. The active call data events can be radio access bearer establishments and internal system releases. In another aspect, the network events can be idle call data events received from one or more mobile devices. If a first event ended on a first sector and a second event started on a second sector before expiration of an interval that started when the first event ended, the first sector and second sector can be defined as neighbors.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09451512&OS=09451512&RS=09451512
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, L.P.
number: 09451512
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150522
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 035 751 filed Sep. 24 2013 and entitled HANDOVER RELATION IDENTIFICATION UTILIZING NETWORK EVENTS which is a continuation of Ser. No. 13 593 228 Now U.S. Pat. No. 8 565 771 filed Aug. 23 2012 and entitled HANDOVER RELATION IDENTIFICATION UTILIZING NETWORK EVENTS. The entireties of these applications are incorporated herein by reference.

The subject disclosure relates to wireless communications and more particularly to handover relation identification utilizing network events.

Wide adoption of mobile devices along with ubiquitous cellular data coverage has resulted in an explosive growth of mobile applications that expect always accessible wireless networking. This explosion has placed strains on resources that are scarce in the mobile world. On the user side dropped calls have been blamed for user dissatisfaction. On the network side instances of dropped calls can occur during handoff which is a process of transferring an ongoing call or an ongoing data session between network sectors.

Aspects of the subject disclosure will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which example embodiments are shown. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various embodiments. However the subject disclosure may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the example embodiments set forth herein.

Various embodiments disclosed herein can be configured to identify inter frequency neighbor relations and or intra frequency neighbor relations by utilizing network reported events in order to ascertain that two sectors overlap in coverage. Since the two sectors overlap in coverage the two sectors can be eligible to be defined as inter frequency relations or as intra frequency relations.

In an implementation some networks can be self configuring networks wherein new base stations that are added to a network can be automatically configured and integrated into the network. The disclosed aspects can be utilized in the self configuring networks to enable dynamic identification and configuration of neighbor relations e.g. by populating a neighbor list . In another implementation some networks can be self organizing networks wherein neighbor relations can be dynamically established and or modified through use of the various aspects disclosed herein.

In an example General Performance Event Handling GPEH data can be utilized to identify which sectors regardless of ARFCN e.g. intra frequency inter frequency interact with each other and warrant definition as neighbors. In an implementation any cases of a specific mobile device ending a connection of any type on a first sector e.g. a source sector and then within a configurable period e.g. 20 seconds 30 seconds and so forth initiating a connection of any type on a second sector e.g. a target sector are flagged. Based in part on the flagging it can be established whether the first sector and the second sector are to be defined as neighbors. If not already defined as neighbors a neighbor relationship can be established. In an aspect the first sector and the second sector can be of different ARFCN and can be defined as inter frequency neighbors. In another aspect the first sector and the second sector can be of the same or a similar ARFCN and can be defined as intra frequency neighbors.

It is noted that although various aspects and embodiments are discussed herein with respect to Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS the subject disclosure is not limited to a UMTS implementation. For example aspects or features of the disclosed embodiments can be exploited in substantially any wireless communication technology. Such wireless communication technologies can include Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Wi Fi Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX General Packet Radio Service GPRS Enhanced GPRS Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE Third Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB High Speed Packet Access HSPA Evolved High Speed Packet Access HSPA High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA Zigbee or another IEEE 802.XX technology. Additionally substantially all aspects disclosed herein can be exploited in legacy telecommunication technologies.

In a UMTS application example the various aspects disclosed herein address one or more shortcomings by mitigating a blind spot that network operators might have when various UARFCN frequency layers are deployed. The benefits of the disclosed aspects include gains in downlink DL nonHS power efficiency and DL code utilization by reducing the time a mobile device spends in CM compressed mode . This can be achieved by identifying and handing off to an inter frequency handover IFHO relation faster. Benefits also include resultant voice and data accessibility gains by improved operational efficiency of DL codes and DL power. Another benefit includes reduced uplink UL received total wideband power RTWP of the neighbor sectors due to less mobile device power ramping while in CM and between non similar UARFCN sectors due to idle and active mode relation lists being common. A further benefit of the disclosed aspects is a reduction in voice and data dropped calls. Regarding dropped calls for sectors that rely heavily on IFHOs to move active traffic to adjacent sectors where the same UARFCN is not deployed the improvement in IFHO performance can be a gain which might be a significant gain to overall performance and reliability.

Additionally the disclosed aspects can improve circuit switched CS and packet switched PS retainability. Additional benefits can include improved HS and nonHS power efficiency and reduced compressed mode operation.

Another benefit includes increased operational efficiencies as compared to adding IFHO relations using a time intensive and iterative process. For example during the operation of a wireless network a mobile device measures and reports the pilot code power e.g. received signal code power RSCP of neighboring sectors that are using the same frequency. In a UMTS network for example while operating in compressed mode the mobile device also measures the received signal code power RSCP of UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access UTRA Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number s UARFCN s non used frequency NUF that are different from the frequency in use. This measurement is utilized in order to trigger the need for an inter frequency handover IFHO when nearing the edge of a UARFCN s deployment area. However there is no reporting of the inter frequency information e.g. RSCP primary synchronization codes PSCs and so forth to the UTRAN Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network except when the primary scrambling code PSC of a sector s NUF becomes eligible as an IFHO target. In this case the measured NUF must be already defined as an IFHO neighbor relation. Thus for the case of IFHO the mobile device can only detect and handover to those neighboring sectors that have already been defined as IFHO relations. If an eligible sector for IFHO that was not defined as an IFHO neighbor relation were to be present there would be no IFHO attempted towards that sector. Further no information is available to alert the operator e.g. wireless network about the need to add the IFHO neighbor relation to the source sector.

The identification of same frequency neighbors can be performed by the existence of tools available through the operator e.g. Original Equipment Manufacturer OEM vendor which on a per sector basis informs the operator of the PSCs that are being measured strongly by the mobile devices but are not currently defined as intra frequency neighbor relations. This is referred to as a missing neighbor report or a Wireless Networked Control Systems WNCS report. However such identification is time intensive and iterative.

According to the various aspects disclosed herein increased operational efficiencies can also be realized when launching new carriers since the time needed to optimize IFHO relations can be reduced. In accordance with some aspects self healing can be realized in cases where a specific frequency layer of a SHO neighbor goes offline.

In an example embodiment an aspect relates to a system that can include at least one memory that stores computer executable instructions and at least one processor communicatively coupled to the at least one memory. The processor facilitates execution of the computer executable instructions to observe a pair of network events reported by a mobile device. The pair of network events can comprise a first event that occurs on a first sector and a second event that occurs on a second sector. The processor also facilitates execution of the computer executable instructions to define the first sector and the second sector as adjacent sectors as a result of the pair of network events and include an identification of the second sector based on the definition to a set of first neighbors associated with the first sector wherein the set of first neighbors comprises at least one neighbor.

According to another example embodiment an aspect relates to a method that includes monitoring by a system comprising at least one processor a set of events associated with a mobile device. The set of events can include a first event and a second event. The method also includes distinguishing by the system a first time based on an end of the first event on a first sector from a second time based on a start of the second event on a second sector. Further the method includes establishing by the system a neighbor relationship between the first sector and the second sector when the second event starts within a predefined period after the first event ends. The first sector and the second sector can be inter frequency neighbors.

In accordance with another example embodiment an aspect relates to a non transitory computer readable storage medium storing computer executable instructions that in response to execution cause a system including a processor to perform operations. The operations can include monitoring network events for active voice call data and idle call data received from a plurality of mobile devices and identifying pairs of network events that occur between two sectors. The operations can also include analyzing temporal aspects of each of the pairs of network events and updating a group of neighbors of one of the two sectors with an identification of the other one of the two sectors as a result of the analyzing.

Referring initially to illustrated is an example non limiting system that can be configured to identify inter frequency handover relationships using network events according to an aspect. The disclosed aspects provide for an air interface technology to identify overlap in coverage for two or more sectors. As a function of the identified overlap in coverage it might be beneficial to define the two or more sectors are neighbors. Such identification and neighbor definition e.g. neighbor list can be provided even if the various sectors utilize different frequencies e.g. defined as inter frequency neighbors . Neighbor lists both intra frequency and inter frequency which can be robust neighbor lists or optimal neighbor lists can result in a reduction of drop calls as well as other benefits. For example a call e.g. voice call data session and so forth might be dropped due to a degradation of the air interface Uu . The degradation of the air interface can be mitigated through the use of neighbor lists. Although the various aspects are discussed with respect to inter frequency neighbor relations the disclosed aspects are not so limited and can be extended to intra frequency neighbor relations.

System can be implemented in a network e.g. base station access point sector and so forth . As previously noted although the various aspects are discussed herein with reference to UMTS the aspects are not limited to an UMTS implementation. Instead the various aspects can be utilized with other network technologies and UMTS technology is utilized herein for purposes of explaining the various aspects.

System can include at least one memory that can store computer executable components and instructions. System can also include at least one processor communicatively coupled to the at least one memory . Coupling can include various communications including but not limited to direct communications indirect communications wired communications and or wireless communications. The at least one processor can facilitate execution of the computer executable components stored in the memory . It is noted that although one or more computer executable components may be described herein and illustrated as components separate from memory e.g. operatively connected to memory in accordance with various embodiments the one or more computer executable components could be stored in the memory . Further while various components have been illustrated as separate components it will be appreciated that multiple components can be implemented as a single component or a single component can be implemented as multiple components without departing from example embodiments.

System can include a monitor component that can be configured to observe various events related to a single mobile device or related to multiple mobile devices. As utilized herein a mobile device can include an air interface based electronic device such as but not limited to a cell phone a PDA personal digital assistant a media player a digital camera a media recorder a laptop a personal computer a printer a scanner a tablet a GPS global positioning system module a gaming module and so forth. Further the mobile device can also include air interface based appliances that can be employed for example in a home an office a building a retail store a restaurant a hotel a factory a warehouse and so on. It is noted that although referred to as a mobile device the device can be mobile e.g. cellular phone and or have limited mobility e.g. desktop computer .

The network events observed by the monitor component can include but are not limited to Radio Access Bearer RAB establishments channel switching and internal system releases e.g. dropped calls for both active voice and data calls. According to some implementations monitor component can be configured to search for different cell identifiers e.g. sector identifiers that are provided within a close time proximity e.g. configurable time period predefined time period as reported by mobile devices that are in idle mode .

In an aspect monitor component can distinguish between an end of a first event and a start of a second event. For example monitor component can ascertain when a connection has ended and further can detect when a connection is established.

In an implementation monitor component can be configured to flag situations where a first connection ended on a first sector and within a configurable interval a second connection was initiated on a second sector. The flagged situations can be retained for further purposes related to determining whether or not the two sectors e.g. the first sector on which the connection ended and the second sector on which the second connection was initiated are to be defined as neighbors. For example the retained pattern of flagged sections can be utilized to establish a pattern to develop a confidence level of whether the sectors are to be defined as neighbors and so forth.

The following example is discussed with reference also to which illustrates an example non limiting wireless network environment that can be utilized with the disclosed aspects. During the operation of a wireless network a mobile device measures and reports the pilot code power e.g. received signal code power RSCP of neighboring sectors that are using the same frequency. In a UMTS network for example while operating in compressed mode CM the mobile device also measures the received signal code power RSCP of UARFCN s non used frequency NUF that are different from the frequency in use. This measurement is utilized in order to trigger the need for an IFHO when nearing the edge of a UARFCN s deployment area.

Included in network environment can be a plurality of mobile devices one of which is shown as mobile device . Also included in wireless network environment can be a plurality of sectors illustrated as three sectors labeled as a first sector a second sector and a third sector . Each sector has a respective geographic area or coverage area. For example first sector has a first coverage area second sector has a second coverage area and third sector has a third coverage area .

The mobile device can travel between the coverage areas. For example as illustrated mobile device is located in the first coverage area . Over time the mobile device might be moved into the second coverage area and or the third coverage area or to different sectors that are not illustrated . As the mobile device is moved such as from first coverage area to second coverage area a handoff also referred to as a handover is performed from the first sector to the second sector . The handoff is a process of transferring an ongoing call or an ongoing data session from in this example the first sector to the second sector .

The handoff can occur seamlessly when the first sector and the second sector are neighbors which can be indicated in a neighbor list . A neighbor list is a table that associates each sector with its neighboring sectors. The neighbor list can be retained in a database . It is noted that a database e.g. database can include volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile memory and nonvolatile memory. By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which can operate as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as static RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . The memory e.g. data stores databases and so on of the various disclosed aspects is intended to comprise without being limited to these and any other suitable types of memory.

According to some aspects the neighbor list can be retained in memory . In accordance with another aspect the neighbor list can be retained in a component located remote from system e.g. accessible through an air interface . For example each sector can comprise its own neighbor list that can be different from the neighbor lists maintained by the other sectors.

As discussed a neighbor list can comprise a list table or other means to associate each sector with its neighboring sectors. The neighboring sectors can be adjacent sectors e.g. first sector and second sector or can be non adjacent sectors e.g. first sector and third sector . According to an aspect the neighboring sectors can utilize the same or a similar frequency intra frequency or can be sectors that utilize a different frequency inter frequency .

Also included in system is an association component that can be configured to establish a neighbor relationship between adjacent sectors e.g. first sector and second sector second sector and third sector first sector and third sector and so forth . According to some aspects the sectors can be existing neighbor relations or might have no existing neighbor relationships. The sectors having an existing neighbor relationship can be filtered out e.g. no need to establish the neighbor relationship . However initially all the neighbor interactions can be collected.

In an implementation the neighbor relationship can be established when association component adds an identification of the target sector to a set of first neighbors associated with the source sector. Additionally or alternatively the association component can include an identification of the source sector to a set of second neighbors associated with the target sector. In an implementation the neighbor list updates can provide additional target choices which can allow mobile devices to move to a better measured target and can result in the mitigation of dropped calls during IFHO after IFHO and or during CM operation prior to the IFHO.

The neighbor relationship can be established when monitor component concludes that a first event ended on the first sector and within a predefined time period a second event started on the second sector. The predefined time period can be configurable such that the amount of time allowed between the end of a first event and a start of the second event can be shortened or lengthened. For example the time period can be defined as a function of various parameters including but not limited to the location of each of the sectors a range of the sectors a distance between two sectors a transmit signal strength a receive signal strength and so forth.

For example when a first event ends on a source sector or first sector and a second event starts on a target sector or second sector before expiration of the pre defined interval it can indicate that the sectors are within a close proximity of each other. Therefore the neighbor list of one or both of the sectors can be updated to indicate the sectors are neighbors which can allow the mobile device to seamlessly handoff between the sectors.

In an example the monitor component can track active call data events and or idle mode call data events. The active call data events can include RAB establishments channel switching internal system releases and so forth. The idle mode call data events can include reports of different cell identifiers IDs that are reported within a predefined period. Other events can include the physical movement of one or more mobile devices the report of different cell IDs within the predefined period the actual location information of the mobile device and so on. In an example the physical movement of the mobile device s can include the observance of a first event ending on a first sector and a second event starting on a second sector before expiration of a configurable interval.

For example the monitor component can process the events and return cases when an event occurs on a first sector and the same mobile device triggers another event on a target sector within the predefined period. Thus the physical movement of the mobile device s between differing sector carriers can inform association component of the potential overlap in a service coverage area of the source sector and the target sector. This can also imply that if the source sector and the target sector and not already defined as IFHO neighbor relations then they should be defined as neighbor relations by the association component .

The evaluation component can also be configured to ascertain the sector on which each of the network events occurred where each event could occur on the same sector or on different sectors . For example a report s that includes the network event s can also include sector identification. The sector identification can be provided to an identification component that can be configured to obtain information about the sector based on its sector identification. For example the identification component can obtain the information from an internal source e.g. a database associated with system or can obtain the information from a source external to system .

The information can include but is not limited to whether the sector can be established as an inter frequency neighbor or an intra frequency neighbor. In another example the information can include data about the sectors that have already been identified as IFHO neighbors for the sector in question. If the sectors are already defined as IFHO neighbors the network events reported by mobile device related to the pair of sectors can be ignored by the system according to an aspect.

Also included in system can be a classification component which can be configured to distinguish between event types which can be network events that occur and are reported as part of a standard network operation. However at least some of the network events can be utilized to establish neighbor relations according to the one or more aspects disclosed herein. As illustrated the one or more mobile devices can convey information to from the system . Each mobile device can be in active mode or in idle mode. During active mode the mobile device can convey active call data . During idle mode the mobile device can convey idle mode call data . However according to some aspects during idle mode a mobile device might not convey information but might periodically register or might register based on crossing a registration boundary e.g. enters active mode .

In an example classification component can distinguish a dropped call from another event. In another example classification component can distinguish between RAB establishments channel switching and internal system releases for both active voice and data calls referred to herein simply as calls depending on the context and or other active call data . In another example classification component can distinguish active call data from idle mode call data . An example of idle call data includes seeking information related to different cell ID s reported by one or more mobile devices that are in idle mode during a predetermined amount of time e.g. 10 seconds 30 seconds 65 seconds 90 seconds and so forth .

In an implementation the monitor component can be configured to process the events. For example processing the events in some cases can return cases where an event occurs on a sector carrier e.g. source carrier and then within a set period of time e.g. 22 seconds 43 seconds and so on that same mobile device triggers another event on a different sector carrier e.g. target sector . In accordance with some aspects the target sector can have a different UARFCN than the source sector. However according to other aspects the target sector and the source sector can have the same UARFCN. As used herein a sector carrier is a unique combination of PSC and UARFCN.

A variety of sources for active call data can be used. Such sources can include event handling data and or event data collected from probes tapping the lub or lucs. Other sources include call data records which can capture different cell ID s sector carrier s at the end of a call and a start of a call on another cell ID e.g. sector carrier or data collected by the network itself as is the case with GPEH . Such a situation can occur in the event of a dropped call or a failed call attempt for example.

Idle mode call data can be obtained from data collected directly from the mobile devices. For example an agent can be embedded on the mobile devices in accordance with an implementation. The agent can be utilized to communicate directly with components of the systems shown and described herein. For example agent can monitor respective mobile device activity and can report the activity continuously periodically intermittently or as a result of a triggering event. For example agent can monitor the events and record the events e.g. in an associated memory or database and at a certain interval can report the group of events. In another example agent can monitor the events for a triggering event e.g. a dropped call and as a result of detection of the triggering event the event data can be transmitted to the system by the mobile device .

Included in system is a confidence component that can be configured to observe one or more events related to mobile devices and associate those one or more events with a pair of sectors e.g. a source sector and a target sector . The one or more events can be observed over time e.g. hours days weeks and so forth . In an implementation the one or more events observed are paired events for a mobile device wherein one event ended on a first sector and a second event started on a second sector before the expiration of a configurable interval.

Based on the observations the confidence component can track the events related to the pair of sectors even if the events are different types of events e.g. active call events idle mode call events and so forth . If the tracking of events for each pair of sectors meets or exceeds a confidence threshold it can be established that the pair of sectors are neighboring sectors and the respective neighbor lists can be updated. The confidence threshold can be configurable such that a network operator can change the confidence threshold as a function of operating procedures or other considerations. In an example the confidence measurement can be a frequency count.

Additionally or alternatively system can include a filter component that can be configured to apply logic to the analysis of the recorded events. In an implementation the logic can be utilized to remove from the analysis an already existing source sector target sector IFHO relation. In another implementation the logic can be utilized to remove cases where the source sector s UARFCN is deployed on the target sector. In a further implementation removal of both the already existing relations and the cases where both sectors use the same frequency can be applied by filter component .

The removal or disregard of neighbor pairs e.g. source sector target sector pair as enacted by filter component can result in having only the remainder of cases where a mobile device is moved from a source sector carrier to a target sector carrier where the source sector does not have the target sector defined as an IFHO relation. Additionally or alternatively the resulting neighbor pairs are only those cases where the source sector s UARFCN is not deployed on the target sector. Either or both of these remainder potential neighbor pair relations can be candidates for IFHO neighbor additions e.g. to a neighbor list as discussed herein.

The network events can be evaluated by monitor component and when it is determined that a first network event ended on a first sector and a second network event was started on a second sector before expiration of a timer the first sector and the second sector can be identified as potential IFHO neighbor relations. In another example the monitor component can capture idle mode call data which can be obtained from data collected or received from the mobile device .

The position data captured per call or idle event can be processed by location component . In an implementation location component can compare the location that a mobile device established on a cell ID frequency to that of a closest cell site e.g. sector . For example the position of sectors might be known a priori e.g. when a sector is established its location can be populated in a database comprising sector information the location of the sector can be included in sector information data . The location of the sector can be utilized at about the same time as the location of the mobile device is analyzed. Thus for every location between two sectors there may be particular areas that mobile devices originate to other sectors and or re select to other sectors. The amount of times this occurs for a given cell site pair can be utilized to determine the importance of the potential inter frequency cell ID handoff pair. Based on the inferred importance one or more neighbor relations can be established according to the disclosed aspects.

An example classifier can be a function that maps an input attribute vector x x1 x2 x3 x4 xn to a confidence that the input belongs to a class that is f x confidence class . Such classification can employ a probabilistic and or statistical based analysis e.g. factoring into the analysis utilities and costs to prognose or infer an action that can be automatically performed. In the case of communication systems for example attributes can be network events associated with a pair of sectors and the classes can be the frequency and or type of the network events.

A support vector machine SVM is an example of a classifier that can be employed. The SVM can operate by finding a hypersurface in the space of possible inputs which the hypersurface attempts to split the triggering criteria from the non triggering events. Intuitively this makes the classification correct for testing data that is near but not identical to training data. Other directed and undirected model classification approaches include for example na ve Bayes Bayesian networks decision trees neural networks fuzzy logic models and probabilistic classification models providing different patterns of independence can be employed. Classification as used herein also may be inclusive of statistical regression that is utilized to develop models of priority.

The disclosed aspects can employ classifiers that are explicitly trained e.g. via a generic training data as well as implicitly trained e.g. via observing mobile device behavior observing network event occurrences receiving extrinsic information and so on . For example SVMs can be configured via a learning or training phase within a classifier constructor and feature selection module. Thus the classifier s can be used to automatically learn and perform a number of functions including but not limited to determining according to a predetermined or dynamic criteria whether two or more sectors are to be classified as a handover relation e.g. in a neighbor list whether one or more network events are to be used to evaluate handover relations whether one or more network events are to be ignored when handover relations are being evaluated and so on. The criteria can include but is not limited to historical patterns mobile device behavior network event statistics service provider preferences and or policies location of the mobile device motion of the mobile device location of one or more sectors and so on.

In view of the example systems shown and described herein methods that may be implemented in accordance with the one or more of the disclosed aspects will be better understood with reference to the following flow charts. While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the methods are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be understood that the disclosed aspects are not limited by the number or order of blocks as some blocks may occur in different orders and or at substantially the same time with other blocks from what is depicted and described herein. Moreover not all illustrated blocks may be required to implement the methods described hereinafter. It is noted that the functionality associated with the blocks may be implemented by software hardware a combination thereof or any other suitable means e.g. device system process component . Additionally it is also noted that the methods disclosed hereinafter and throughout this specification are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such methodologies to various devices. Those skilled in the art will understand that a method could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram. The various methods disclosed herein can be performed by system comprising at least one processor.

At the first event is distinguished from the second event. The first event can be distinguished based on a first time associated with when the first event ends on a first sector. The second event can be distinguished based on a second time associated with when the second event starts on a second sector.

A neighbor relationship can be established between the first sector and the second sector at in response to an occurrence of the second event being within a predefined period after the first event ends. For example the predefined period can be 25 seconds. If the second event starts within 25 seconds commencing from when the first event ends the sectors are defined as neighbors e.g. a mobile device can move quickly between the two sectors . If the second event does not start until after the predefined period has elapsed the sectors are not defined as neighbors e.g. a mobile device cannot move between the sectors before expiration of the timer and therefore will not be handed off between the sectors .

In an implementation the monitoring can include analyzing idle call data events received from a mobile device. In another implementation the monitoring can include analyzing active call data events received from the mobile device. The active call data events can include radio access bearer establishments and internal system releases. In some implementations both active call data events and idle call data events are analyzed.

At it is determined that the first sector utilizes a first frequency and the second sector utilizes a second frequency e.g. inter frequency . Based on this determination at an inter frequency relationship between the first sector and the second sector is established. For example an identification of the second sector can be added to a set of first neighbors associated with the first sector. In some aspects the set of first neighbors comprises at least one neighbor Additionally or alternatively an identification of the first sector can be added to a set of second neighbors associated with the second sector.

In an alternative implementation after the first event is distinguished from the second event at method continues at with a determination that the first sector and a second sector utilize the same frequency. In this case the set of events can be ignored at and a neighbor relationship is not established. In another example if the first sector and the second sector are not already defined in a neighbor relationship the neighbor relationship can be established as an intra frequency neighbor relationship.

At pairs of network events that occur between two sectors are identified. Each pair of network events can be associated with a single mobile device. Temporal aspects of each of the pairs of network events are analyzed at . In an example the analyzing can include determining at that a first network event of a pair of network events ended on a first sector and a second network event of the pair of network events started on a second sector. At respective timestamps associated with the first network event and the second network event are evaluated. For example a first timestamp can be associated with the first event and a second timestamp can be associated with the second event. In an implementation the first timestamp is stored when the first event ends on a first sector and the second timestamp is identified in response to a start of the second event occurring on the second sector.

The method can continue at when a group of neighbors of one of the two sectors is updated as a result of the analyzing at . In an implementation the group of neighbors is populated in response to determining the second network event commenced within a predefined interval after the first network event concluded. In some implementations neighbor lists of both the first network and the second network are populated with information related to the other network.

In accordance with some aspects method includes determining a first sector and a second sector are already defined as inter frequency handover neighbors and ignoring the pairs of network events related to the first sector and the second sector. According to other aspects method includes determining a first sector and a second sector utilize a common frequency and ignoring the pairs of network events related to the first sector and the second sector.

By way of further description with respect to one or more non limiting ways to establish neighbor relations between inter frequency sectors and or intra frequency sectors is a schematic example wireless environment that can operate in accordance with aspects described herein. In particular example wireless environment illustrates a set of wireless network macro cells. Three coverage macro cells and include the illustrative wireless environment however it is noted that wireless cellular network deployments can encompass any number of macro cells. Coverage macro cells and are illustrated as hexagons however coverage cells can adopt other geometries generally dictated by a deployment configuration or floor plan geographic areas to be covered and so on. Each macro cell and is sectorized in a 2 3 configuration in which each macro cell includes three sectors demarcated with dashed lines in . It is noted that other sectorizations are possible and aspects or features of the disclosed subject matter can be exploited regardless of type of sectorization. Macro cells and are served respectively through base stations or eNodeBs and . Any two eNodeBs can be considered an eNodeB site pair NBSP . It is noted that radio component s are functionally coupled through links such as cables e.g. RF and microwave coaxial lines ports switches connectors and the like to a set of one or more antennas that transmit and receive wireless signals not illustrated . It is noted that a radio network controller not shown which can be a part of mobile network platform s and set of base stations e.g. eNode B and that serve a set of macro cells electronic circuitry or components associated with the base stations in the set of base stations a set of respective wireless links e.g. links and operated in accordance to a radio technology through the base stations form a macro radio access network RAN . It is further noted that based on network features the radio controller can be distributed among the set of base stations or associated radio equipment. In an aspect for UMTS based networks wireless links and embody a Uu interface UMTS Air Interface .

Mobile network platform s facilitates circuit switched CS based e.g. voice and data and packet switched PS e.g. internet protocol IP frame relay or asynchronous transfer mode ATM traffic and signaling generation as well as delivery and reception for networked telecommunication in accordance with various radio technologies for disparate markets. Telecommunication is based at least in part on standardized protocols for communication determined by a radio technology utilized for communication. In addition telecommunication can exploit various frequency bands or carriers which include any EM frequency bands licensed by the service provider network e.g. personal communication services PCS advanced wireless services AWS general wireless communications service GWCS and so forth and any unlicensed frequency bands currently available for telecommunication e.g. the 2.4 GHz industrial medical and scientific IMS band or one or more of the 5 GHz set of bands . In addition mobile network platform s can control and manage base stations and and radio component s associated thereof in disparate macro cells and by way of for example a wireless network management component e.g. radio network controller s cellular gateway node s etc. Moreover wireless network platform s can integrate disparate networks e.g. femto network s Wi Fi network s femto cell network s broadband network s service network s enterprise network s and so on . In cellular wireless technologies e.g. 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS Global System for Mobile Communication GSM mobile network platform can be embodied in the service provider network .

In addition wireless backhaul link s can include wired link components such as T1 E1 phone line a digital subscriber line DSL either synchronous or asynchronous an asymmetric DSL ADSL an optical fiber backbone a coaxial cable etc. and wireless link components such as line of sight LOS or non LOS links which can include terrestrial air interfaces or deep space links e.g. satellite communication links for navigation . In an aspect for UMTS based networks wireless backhaul link s embodies IuB interface.

It is noted that while exemplary wireless environment is illustrated for macro cells and macro base stations aspects features and advantages of the disclosed subject matter can be implemented in microcells picocells femto cells or the like wherein base stations are embodied in home based equipment related to access to a network.

To provide further context for various aspects of the disclosed subject matter illustrates a block diagram of an embodiment of access equipment and or software related to access of a network e.g. base station wireless access point femtocell access point and so forth that can enable and or exploit features or aspects of the disclosed aspects.

Access equipment and or software related to access of a network can receive and transmit signal s from and to wireless devices wireless ports wireless routers etc. through segments B is a positive integer . Segments can be internal and or external to access equipment and or software related to access of a network and can be controlled by a monitor component and an antenna component . Monitor component and antenna component can couple to communication platform which can include electronic components and associated circuitry that provide for processing and manipulation of received signal s and other signal s to be transmitted.

In an aspect communication platform includes a receiver transmitter that can convert analog signals to digital signals upon reception of the analog signals and can convert digital signals to analog signals upon transmission. In addition receiver transmitter can divide a single data stream into multiple parallel data streams or perform the reciprocal operation. Coupled to receiver transmitter can be a multiplexer demultiplexer that can facilitate manipulation of signals in time and frequency space. Multiplexer demultiplexer can multiplex information data traffic and control signaling according to various multiplexing schemes such as time division multiplexing TDM frequency division multiplexing FDM orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM code division multiplexing CDM space division multiplexing SDM . In addition multiplexer demultiplexer component can scramble and spread information e.g. codes according to substantially any code known in the art such as Hadamard Walsh codes Baker codes Kasami codes polyphase codes and so forth .

A modulator demodulator is also a part of communication platform and can modulate information according to multiple modulation techniques such as frequency modulation amplitude modulation e.g. M ary quadrature amplitude modulation QAM with M a positive integer phase shift keying PS K and so forth .

Access equipment and or software related to access of a network also includes a processor configured to confer at least in part functionality to substantially any electronic component in access equipment and or software . In particular processor can facilitate configuration of access equipment and or software through for example monitor component antenna component and one or more components therein. Additionally access equipment and or software can include display interface which can display functions that control functionality of access equipment and or software or reveal operation conditions thereof. In addition display interface can include a screen to convey information to an end user. In an aspect display interface can be an LCD Liquid Crystal Display a plasma panel a monolithic thin film based electrochromic display and so on. Moreover display interface can include a component e.g. speaker that facilitates communication of aural indicia which can also be employed in connection with messages that convey operational instructions to an end user. Display interface can also facilitate data entry e.g. through a linked keypad or through touch gestures which can cause access equipment and or software to receive external commands e.g. restart operation .

Broadband network interface facilitates connection of access equipment and or software to a service provider network not shown that can include one or more cellular technologies e.g. 3GPP UMTS GSM and so on. through backhaul link s not shown which enable incoming and outgoing data flow. Broadband network interface can be internal or external to access equipment and or software and can utilize display interface for end user interaction and status information delivery.

Processor can be functionally connected to communication platform and can facilitate operations on data e.g. symbols bits or chips for multiplexing demultiplexing such as effecting direct and inverse fast Fourier transforms selection of modulation rates selection of data packet formats inter packet times and so on. Moreover processor can be functionally connected through data system or an address bus to display interface and broadband network interface to confer at least in part functionality to each of such components.

In access equipment and or software memory can retain location and or coverage area e.g. macro sector identifier s access list s that authorize access to wireless coverage through access equipment and or software sector intelligence that can include ranking of coverage areas in the wireless environment of access equipment and or software radio link quality and strength associated therewith or the like. Memory also can store data structures code instructions and program modules system or device information code sequences for scrambling spreading and pilot transmission access point configuration and so on. Processor can be coupled e.g. through a memory bus to memory in order to store and retrieve information used to operate and or confer functionality to the components platform and interface that reside within access equipment and or software .

As it employed in the subject specification the term processor can refer to substantially any computing processing unit or device including but not limited to including single core processors single processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors multi core processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors with hardware multithread technology parallel platforms and parallel platforms with distributed shared memory. Additionally a processor can refer to an integrated circuit an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a digital signal processor DSP a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic controller PLC a complex programmable logic device CPLD a discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions and or processes described herein. Processors can exploit nano scale architectures such as but not limited to molecular and quantum dot based transistors switches and gates in order to optimize space usage or enhance performance of mobile devices. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing processing units.

In the subject specification terms such as store data store data storage database and substantially any other information storage component relevant to operation and functionality of a component and or process refer to memory components or entities embodied in a memory or components including the memory. It is noted that the memory components described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory.

By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory for example can be included in memory non volatile memory see below disk storage see below and memory storage see below . Further nonvolatile memory can be included in read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . Additionally the disclosed memory components of systems or methods herein are intended to include without being limited to including these and any other suitable types of memory.

In order to provide a context for the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter and the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable environment in which the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter can be implemented. While the subject matter has been described above in the general context of computer executable instructions of a computer program that runs on a computer and or computers those skilled in the art will recognize that the various aspects also can be implemented in combination with other program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks and or implement particular abstract data types. For example in memory such as memory there can be software which can instruct a processor such as processor to perform various actions. The processor can be configured to execute the instructions in order to implement the analysis of monitoring an uplink power level detecting the uplink power level is at or above a threshold level and or disable transmission of at least one message as a result of the monitored uplink power level.

Moreover those skilled in the art will understand that the various aspects can be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor computer systems mini computing devices mainframe computers as well as personal computers base stations hand held computing devices or user equipment such as a PDA phone watch and so forth microprocessor based or programmable consumer or industrial electronics and the like. The illustrated aspects can also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network however some if not all aspects of the subject disclosure can be practiced on stand alone computers. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

With reference to a block diagram of a computing system operable to execute the disclosed systems and methods is illustrated in accordance with an embodiment. Computer includes a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . System bus couples system components including but not limited to system memory to processing unit . Processing unit can be any of various available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multiprocessor architectures also can be employed as processing unit .

System bus can be any of several types of bus structure s including a memory bus or a memory controller a peripheral bus or an external bus and or a local bus using any variety of available bus architectures including but not limited to Industrial Standard Architecture ISA Micro Channel Architecture MSA Extended ISA EISA Intelligent Drive Electronics IDE VESA Local Bus VLB Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI Card Bus Universal Serial Bus USB Advanced Graphics Port AGP Personal Computer Memory Card International Association bus PCMCIA Firewire IEEE 1194 and Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI .

System memory includes volatile memory and nonvolatile memory . A basic input output system BIOS containing routines to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up can be stored in nonvolatile memory . By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include ROM PROM EPROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM Rambus direct RAM RDRAM direct Rambus dynamic RAM DRDRAM and Rambus dynamic RAM RDRAM .

Computer also includes removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage media. In an implementation the non transitory computer readable storage medium can store computer executable instructions that in response to execution cause a system including a processor to perform operations. The operations can include monitoring network events for active voice call data and idle call data received from a plurality of mobile devices. The operations can also include identifying pairs of network events that occur between two sectors analyzing temporal aspects of the pairs of network events and updating a group of neighbors of one of the two sectors with an identification of the other one of the two sectors as a result of the analyzing.

In some aspects the operations can include determining that a first network event of a pair of the pairs of network events ended on a first sector and a second network event started on a second sector and evaluating respective timestamps associated with the first network event and the second network event. Further to this aspect the operations can include populating the group of neighbors with the identification of one of the two sectors in response to determining the second network event commenced within a predefined interval after the first network event concluded.

According to some aspects the operations can include determining a first sector and a second sector are already defined as inter frequency handover neighbors and ignoring the pairs of network events related to the first sector and the second sector. In accordance with some aspects the operations can include determining a first sector and a second sector utilize a common frequency and ignoring the pairs of network events related to the first sector and the second sector.

It is to be noted that describes software that acts as an intermediary between users and computer resources described in suitable operating environment. Such software includes an operating system . Operating system which can be stored on disk storage acts to control and allocate resources of computer system . System applications can take advantage of the management of resources by operating system through program modules and program data stored either in system memory or on disk storage . It is to be understood that the disclosed subject matter can be implemented with various operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user can enter commands or information for example through interface component into computer system through input device s . Input devices include but are not limited to a pointing device such as a mouse trackball stylus touch pad keyboard microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner TV tuner card digital camera digital video camera web camera and the like. These and other input devices connect to processing unit through system bus through interface port s . Interface port s include for example a serial port a parallel port a game port and a universal serial bus USB . Output device s use some of the same type of ports as input device s .

Thus for example a USB port can be used to provide input to computer and to output information from computer to an output device . Output adapter is provided to illustrate that there are some output devices such as monitors speakers and printers among other output devices which use special adapters. Output adapters include by way of illustration and not limitation video and sound cards that provide means of connection between output device and system bus . It is also noted that other devices and or systems of devices provide both input and output capabilities such as remote computer s .

Computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as remote computer s . Remote computer s can be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a workstation a microprocessor based appliance a peer device or other common network node and the like and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to computer .

For purposes of brevity only one memory storage device is illustrated with remote computer s . Remote computer s is logically connected to computer through a network interface and then physically connected through communication connection . Network interface encompasses wire and or wireless communication networks such as local area networks LAN and wide area networks WAN . LAN technologies include Fiber Distributed Data Interface FDDI Copper Distributed Data Interface CDDI Ethernet Token Ring and the like. WAN technologies include but are not limited to point to point links circuit switching networks like Integrated Services Digital Networks ISDN and variations thereon packet switching networks and Digital Subscriber Lines DSL .

Communication connection s refer s to hardware software employed to connect network interface to system bus . While communication connection is shown for illustrative clarity inside computer it can also be external to computer . The hardware software for connection to network interface can include for example internal and external technologies such as modems including regular telephone grade modems cable modems and DSL modems ISDN adapters and Ethernet cards.

It is to be noted that aspects features or advantages of the aspects described in the subject specification can be exploited in substantially any communication technology. For example 4G technologies Wi Fi WiMAX Enhanced GPRS 3GPP LTE 3GPP2 UMB 3GPP UMTS HSPA HSDPA HSUPA GERAN UTRAN LTE Advanced. Additionally substantially all aspects disclosed herein can be exploited in legacy telecommunication technologies e.g. GSM. In addition mobile as well non mobile networks e.g. Internet data service network such as IPTV can exploit aspect or features described herein.

Various aspects or features described herein can be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques. In addition various aspects disclosed in the subject specification can also be implemented through program modules stored in a memory and executed by a processor or other combination of hardware and software or hardware and firmware.

Other combinations of hardware and software or hardware and firmware can enable or implement aspects described herein including disclosed method s . The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical discs e.g. compact disc CD digital versatile disc DVD blu ray disc BD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . .

Computing devices typically include a variety of media which can include computer readable storage media or communications media which two terms are used herein differently from one another as follows.

Computer readable storage media can be any available storage media that can be accessed by the computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable storage media can be implemented in connection with any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions program modules structured data or unstructured data. Computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or other tangible and or non transitory media which can be used to store desired information. Computer readable storage media can be accessed by one or more local or remote computing devices e.g. via access requests queries or other data retrieval protocols for a variety of operations with respect to the information stored by the medium.

Communications media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other structured or unstructured data in a data signal such as a modulated data signal e.g. a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery or transport media. The term modulated data signal or signals refers to a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in one or more signals. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

What has been described above includes examples of systems and methods that provide advantages of the one or more aspects. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methods for purposes of describing the aspects but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the claimed subject matter are possible. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has possesses and the like are used in the detailed description claims appendices and drawings such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

As used in this application the terms component system and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity or an entity related to an operational apparatus with one or more specific functionalities wherein the entity can be either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. As an example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution computer executable instructions a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server or network controller and the server or network controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Also these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems via the signal . As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry which is operated by a software or firmware application executed by a processor wherein the processor can be internal or external to the apparatus and executes at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts the electronic components can include a processor therein to execute software or firmware that confers at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. As further yet another example interface s can include input output I O components as well as associated processor application or Application Programming Interface API components.

The term set subset or the like as employed herein excludes the empty set e.g. the set with no elements therein . Thus a set subset or the like includes one or more elements or periods for example. As an illustration a set of periods includes one or more periods a set of transmissions includes one or more transmissions a set of resources includes one or more resources a set of messages includes one or more messages and so forth.

In addition the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. Moreover articles a and an as used in the subject specification and annexed drawings should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

