---

title: Systems and methods for editing documents
abstract: Systems and methods for automatically editing a softcopy document using a hardcopy markup document are disclosed. The method includes scanning pages of the hardcopy markup document including editing marks; identifying file information of the hardcopy markup document; retrieving the softcopy document corresponding to the hardcopy markup document from a storage device based on the identified file information; recognizing marked regions present on at least one of the scanned pages, the marked regions includes at least one of the editing marks; creating an edit information document based on the recognized marked regions; converting the marked regions into an editable format; and creating an edited softcopy document by making one or more changes on each page of the retrieved softcopy document based on the edit information document.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09542140&OS=09542140&RS=09542140
owner: Xerox Corporation
number: 09542140
owner_city: Norwalk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150605
---
The presently disclosed embodiments relate to multi function electronic devices such as a printer a scanner and more particularly to systems and methods for facilitating users to edit documents using hardcopy markup documents.

For editing documents such as an electronic document an editor such as a senior editor can either edit the electronic copy directly on the computing device or may print a hardcopy and then make hand written mark up corrections to the hardcopy. Based on the hardcopy including mark ups the senior editor or some other person can change the electronic copy later. Further in the legal industry for example lawyers receive numerous memos and or briefs that they mark up edit revise and have their assistants make copies of to be distributed to other lawyers or their clients. Some editors may prefer marking up a hardcopy to marking up an electronic copy as it can be more convenient or comfortable to their tradition of working with pen and paper.

Further the format or layout of text etc. may change on the electronic document as editing marks are added. The three dimensional nature of hardcopy may help some people organize and structure their work and allow free form marking. Further the editing marks on hardcopy can capture a history of interactions on the document. More than one editor can interact and communicate through written annotations. Lastly hardcopy does not require any presentation device such as computers laptops PDAs cellular phones etc. For these and other reasons marking up a document from a hardcopy can be preferred over marking up an electronic document.

While marking up the hardcopy can be convenient for the editor it is also often tedious and time consuming to associate the indicated changes within the electronic document. In many instances there are significant costs associated with the expense and time required to manually incorporate hand written editing markings such as proofreader s marks into an electronic document. The person must repeatedly reference the hardcopy markup and manually associate the marking within the unmarked electronic copy.

The present disclosure provides systems and methods for incorporation of editing marks in softcopy documents or electronic documents which overcomes the above referenced limitations and others.

The present disclosure finds particular application in conjunction with incorporating hand written editing marks into an electronic document softcopy document and will be described with particular reference thereto. However it is to be appreciated that the present disclosure is also amenable to other like applications. For example one might make notes on a hard copy of slides presented at a meeting and collect those hand written notes by extracting the underlying slide images. In another example people might extract hand written information from a paper copy of an electronic form.

An embodiment of the present disclosure provides a method for automatically editing a softcopy document using a hardcopy markup document. The hardcopy markup document may be a printed document including one or more editing marks. The softcopy document is an electronic document stored within an MFD or other device. The method includes scanning one or more pages of the hardcopy markup document that includes one or more editing marks on the document. In some embodiments a scanning device of the MFD scans the pages of the hardcopy markup document. The method also includes identifying file information of the hardcopy markup document. In some embodiments an editing device identifies the file information of the hardcopy markup document. The method further includes retrieving the softcopy document corresponding to the hardcopy markup document from a storage device based on the identified file information. In some embodiments the editing device retrieves the softcopy document. Further the method includes recognizing one or more marked regions present on at least one of the scanned pages of the hardcopy markup document. The marked regions may include at least one of the editing marks. In some embodiments the editing device recognizes the marked regions present on the scanned pages. The method also includes creating an edit information document based on the recognized one or more marked regions. In some embodiments the editing device creates the edit information document. The method also includes converting the one or more marked regions present on the scanned hardcopy markup document into an editable format such as a text format an MS word format and so forth. In some embodiments the editing device converts the marked regions into the editable format using an Optical Character Recognition OCR technology. The method further includes creating an edited softcopy document by making one or more changes on each page of the retrieved softcopy document based on the created edit information document to create an edited softcopy document. In some embodiments the editing device creates the edited softcopy document based on the created edit information document.

Another embodiment of the present disclosure provides a system for automatically editing a softcopy document using a hardcopy markup document. The system includes a multi function device MFD having a scanning device for scanning one or more pages of a document including the hardcopy markup document. The hardcopy markup document may include one or more editing marks. The system further includes an editing device for identifying file information of the hardcopy markup document. The file information may include a filename of the hardcopy markup document and a page number of each of the one or more pages. The editing device is also configured to retrieve the softcopy document corresponding to the hardcopy markup document from a storage device based on the identified file information. The editing device is also configured to recognize one or more marked regions present on each of the scanned pages of the hardcopy markup document. The marked regions may include at least one of the editing marks. The editing device is also configured to create an edit information document based on the recognized one or more marked regions. The editing device is also configured to convert the marked regions present on the scanned hardcopy markup document into an editable format e.g. a text format using the OCR technology. The editing device is also configured to create an edited softcopy document by making one or more changes on each page of the retrieved softcopy document based on the created edit information document.

Yet another embodiment of the present disclosure provides a non transitory computer readable medium comprising computer executable instructions for automatically editing a softcopy document using a hardcopy markup document. The non transitory computer readable medium includes instructions for scanning one or more pages of the hardcopy markup document the hardcopy markup document includes one or more editing marks identifying file information of the hardcopy markup document retrieving the softcopy document corresponding to the hardcopy markup document from a storage device based on the identified file information recognizing one or more marked regions present on at least one of the scanned pages of the hardcopy markup document wherein the one or more marked regions includes at least one of the editing marks creating an edit information document based on the recognized one or more marked regions converting the one or more marked regions present on the scanned hardcopy markup document into an editable format using the OCR technology and creating an edited softcopy document by making one or more changes on each page of the retrieved softcopy document based on the created edit information document.

Other and further aspects and features of the disclosure will be evident from reading the following detailed description of the embodiments which are intended to illustrate not limit the present disclosure.

The following detailed description is made with reference to the figures. Exemplary embodiments are described to illustrate the disclosure not to limit its scope which is defined by the claims. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize a number of equivalent variations in the description that follows.

The functional units described in this specification have been labeled as devices. A device may be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as processors digital signal processors central processing units field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices cloud processing systems or the like. The devices may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified device may include executable code and may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure function or other construct. Nevertheless the executables of an identified device need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the device and achieve the stated purpose of the device.

Indeed an executable code of a device could be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different applications and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within the device and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially as electronic signals on a system or network.

Reference throughout this specification to a select embodiment one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the disclosed subject matter. Thus appearances of the phrases a select embodiment in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the disclosed subject matter. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the disclosed subject matter can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the disclosed subject matter.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure definitions of one or more terms that will be used in the document are provided below.

A Multi Function Device MFD as used herein includes a single device that offers a number of traditionally separate devices and functionalities such as printing copying scanning faxing etc. The functionalities mainly include scanning where sheets or documents are output in response to electronic signals the signal may or may not include the image data itself .

As used herein a Graphical User Interface GUI can include an interface on the device enabling a user to interact with the device or MFD. The GUI may include one or more graphical format objects.

As used herein a softcopy document refers to an unprinted digital document or an electronic copy of data such as a file that can be viewed on a display of a computer etc. The softcopy document may be displayed on any suitable display of a computing device such as that of a computer. Further the softcopy may be sent as an attachment of an e mail.

Further a hardcopy document refers to a permanent reproduction or copy in the form of a physical object of data of a file etc. on any suitable media such as a paper plastic sheet a cloth wood and so forth. The hardcopy can be a printed document including data of a file or of a softcopy document etc. Examples of hard copy document may include computer printouts tele printer pages OCR forms continuous printed tapes radio photo prints and so forth.

As used herein a hardcopy markup document refers to the physical reproduction or copy in the form of a physical object of data of a file etc. on any media including one or more markings or editing marks done by a user such as an editor. The hardcopy markup document may include a graphic a chart a photo a PowerPoint presentation an electronic file from a tablet or pen that has electronic handwriting and markups on it that could be entered directly into the MFD.

As used herein an editing device refers to a device configured to edit a softcopy document based on a hardcopy markup document. Further the editing device may include a software hardware firmware or combination of these. The editing device is further intended to include or otherwise cover all software or computer programs capable of performing the various heretofore disclosed determinations calculations etc. for the disclosed purposes.

As used herein a scanning device includes a device configured to scan one or more hardcopy documents and produce an electronic copy corresponding to the one or more hardcopy documents. The scanning device may include software hardware firmware and combination of these.

An input device as used herein may include a device configured to allow a user to provide one or more inputs. The input device may include an interface software hardware and combination of these. The input device may receive one or more inputs from the user. Further the input device may be a touch sensitive device configured to receive input from the user. The input device may receive voice text inputs from the user.

As used herein a storage device refers to a device for storing data or files. The storage device may include hardware software or combination of these.

Further the term hot folder refers to a designated location on a network or on a device such as the MFD or printing device for electronic files that are to be imported into the MFD for printing or processing. In the description section the hot folder refers to a printing hot folder.

Further as used herein a server device or a server is a computer or device on a network configured to manage network resources. There may be different types of servers such as a file server a storage device and so forth. In some embodiments the server device may include multiple computers and storage devices.

As used herein an edit information file refers to an electronic file including information about marked regions editing marks present in the hardcopy markup document and actions to be taken corresponding to the editing marks and so forth. The edit information file may be an XML file including all such information.

Further as used herein the term file information refers to information about hardcopy markup document.

Further the device or system for automatically editing a softcopy document based on a hardcopy markup document may be a software hardware firmware or combination of these. The device or the system is further intended to include or otherwise cover all software or computer programs capable of performing the various heretofore disclosed determinations calculations etc. for the disclosed purposes. For example exemplary embodiments are intended to cover all software or computer programs capable of enabling processors to implement the disclosed processes. Exemplary embodiments are also intended to cover any and all currently known related art or later developed non transitory recording or storage mediums such as a CD ROM DVD ROM hard drive RAM ROM floppy disc magnetic tape cassette etc. that record or store such software or computer programs. Exemplary embodiments are further intended to cover such software computer programs systems and or processes provided through any other currently known related art or later developed medium such as transitory mediums carrier waves etc. usable for implementing the exemplary operations disclosed below.

In accordance with the exemplary embodiments the disclosed computer programs can be executed in many exemplary ways such as an application that is resident in the memory of a device or as a hosted application that is being executed on a server and communicating with the device application or browser via a number of standard protocols such as TCP IP HTTP XML SOAP REST JSON and other sufficient protocols. The disclosed computer programs can be written in exemplary programming languages that execute from memory on the device or from a hosted server such as BASIC COBOL C C Java Pascal or scripting languages such as JavaScript Python Ruby PHP Perl or other sufficient programming languages.

Some of the disclosed embodiments include or otherwise involve data transfer over a network such as communicating various inputs or files over the network. The network may include for example one or more of the Internet Wide Area Networks WANs Local Area Networks LANs analog or digital wired and wireless telephone networks e.g. a PSTN Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN a cellular network and Digital Subscriber Line xDSL radio television cable satellite and or any other delivery or tunneling mechanism for carrying data. The network may include multiple networks or sub networks each of which may include for example a wired or wireless data pathway. The network may include a circuit switched voice network a packet switched data network or any other network able to carry electronic communications. For example the network may include networks based on the Internet protocol IP or asynchronous transfer mode ATM and may support voice using for example VoIP Voice over ATM or other comparable protocols used for voice data communications. In one implementation the network includes a cellular telephone network configured to enable exchange of text or SMS messages.

Examples of a network include but are not limited to a personal area network PAN a storage area network SAN a home area network HAN a campus area network CAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN a virtual private network VPN an enterprise private network EPN Internet a global area network GAN and so forth.

The present disclosure provides methods and systems for automatically editing softcopy document with markups from a hardcopy document including one or more pages containing marked up text images formatting etc. In a non limiting example a first user such as an assistant of a senior editor may take print out of pages or document that need to be reviewed by a second user for example the senior editor. The second user may mark the pages with distinct editing mark s to indicate the corrections to be done. The editing mark s may be color coded using specific colors. The first user may collect the hardcopy markup document from the first user with the required changes to make to the softcopy version of the document. The first user may scan the pages of the hardcopy markup document on the MFD. In some embodiments the pages of the hardcopy markup document include a file code for example a quick response QR code including file information. The file information may include a file name of the hardcopy markup document etc. The MFD may identify the file code or may receive the file information from the user. Based on the file information retrieved from the file code or received from the user a softcopy document is retrieved from a storage device. The storage device may be a USB device a server device a database of the MFD a hot folder and so forth. The MFD may recognize one or more marked regions including editing marks proofreading marks etc. on the hardcopy markup document by using Optical Character Recognition OCR . The MFD may create an edit information file such as an XML file based on the recognized marked regions. The MFD then changes the softcopy document based on the edit information file to create an edited softcopy document.

The editing device A may extract the file code from the scanned copy of the hardcopy markup document. The file information may include a file name of the hardcopy markup document and page number etc. The storage device may store the files softcopy documents corresponding to the hardcopy markup documents user identity ID information and so forth. The storage device can be a USB device a server device a database at the MFD A and so forth. The editing device A may retrieve a softcopy document corresponding to the hardcopy markup language based on the file information from the storage device . The editing device A may recognize one or more marked regions from the scanned copy of the hardcopy markup document. The marked regions may include editing mark s . Examples of the editing marks are discussed with reference to .

The editing device A may create an edit information document based on the recognized marked regions. The edit information may include information such as but not limited to the file name page number marked regions and action to be performed based on the editing mark s in the marked regions and so forth. The edit information file may be created using a suitable electronic format such as but not limited to XML format CSV format and so forth. The editing device A may further convert one or more marked regions on the scanned copy of the hardcopy markup document into a text format. Further the editing device A may make changes to the retrieved softcopy document based on the edit information file. This way the editing device A creates an edited softcopy document corresponding to the hardcopy markup document.

The network can be a wireless network a wired network or combination of these. The MFD B may send the edit information file and or the softcopy document to the server device for further processing and editing of the softcopy document based on the edit information file. The MFD B may include a transceiver not shown for transmitting the edit information file and or the softcopy document to the server device . In some embodiments the server device includes the softcopy document corresponding to the hardcopy markup document. In this embodiment the editing device B on the server device may receive the scanned hardcopy document from the MFD B and the editing device B may process the scanned hardcopy document for creating the edited softcopy document. The editing device B may recognize marked regions on each of the pages of the scanned hardcopy markup document and may create the edit information document. Based on the edit information document the editing device B may edit the softcopy document.

Hereinafter whenever structures features functions etc. are included and or consistent with both the MFD A and the MFD B the devices may be collectively referred to as an MFD . As discussed with reference to in some embodiments the user is registered with the MFD using a login identity ID and or password. The user may be required to login to the MFD by entering his her login credentials on the MFD prior to the scanning the documents on the MFD . The MFD may authenticate the user based on the login credentials entered by the user . Post authentication the user may interact with the MFD and can access one or more features of the MFD . For example the user may scan the hardcopy markup document.

In some embodiments the user registers with the MFD at the time of configuration of the MFD for example when the MFD is first installed on the network . In alternative embodiments the user registers with the MFD prior to interacting with the MFD . The MFD can store and maintain the login credential of the user . In some embodiments the storage device may store and maintain the login credentials of the user .

As shown the MFD A primarily includes a scanning device A an input device A an editing device A and a database A. The MFD A in one embodiment is a computer hardware device with at least one processor not shown executing machine readable program instructions of the methods and functions of the embodiments. Such a system may include in whole or in part a software application working alone or in conjunction with one or more computer hardware resources. Such software applications may be executed by at least one processor at the MFD A computer hardware or alternatively by multiple processors on different computer hardware platforms or emulated in a virtual environment.

The processor s may include for example microprocessors microcomputers microcontrollers digital signal processors central processing units state machines logic circuits and or any devices and computer memory that manipulate signals based on operational instructions. Among other capabilities the processor s are configured to fetch and execute computer readable instructions.

Further the MFD A may include one or more user interface s A e.g. a Graphical User Interface . The interface s A may include a variety of software interfaces for example application programming interface hardware interfaces for example cable connectors USB connectors and so forth. The interface s A may facilitate the user to select a service on the MFD A. Examples of the service may include scanning printing photocopying fax and so forth. Further one or more devices A A may function in association with the processor s for executing one or more instructions.

The user can provide identity information to the MFD A for registration. The input device A may be configured to receive the login credentials from the user entered by typing at the interfaces A. In some embodiments an authentication device not shown on the MFD A can authenticate the user based on the login credentials entered by the user . Post authentication the user can access one or more services on the MFD A. In some embodiments the user manually enters the identity information or and login credentials on the MFD A at the interfaces A. In alternative embodiments the user may be registered by performing registration process or entering details on the network or on the network devices without the need to approach or enter data on the MFD . The identity information may be provided by the user during at least one of the time of configuration of the MFD A or at a particular time interval. The identity information of each of the user may include a user name user ID and so forth.

The database A can store the identity information of the user . The database A may also store the information about various job requests and about network devices present in the network . In some embodiments the MFD A includes a user registration device not shown for registering the user with the MFD A based on the identity information and or login credentials provided by the user .

The user may scan the documents such as a hardcopy markup document by placing it on an interface A of the MFD A. The scanning device A is configured to scan one or more pages of the hardcopy markup document. The editing device A is configured to identify file information of the hardcopy markup document. The file information may include a file name of the hardcopy markup document page number of each of the one or more pages author of the document editor of the document and so forth. In some embodiments the editing device may identify a file code present on one or more pages of the scanned hardcopy markup document. The file code can be but not limited to a Quick Response QR code a bar code and so forth. The file code may include the file information. In alternate embodiments the editing device A may request the file information from the user via one of the interfaces A. The user may manually enter the file information and the input device A may receive the file information from the user .

The editing device may also be configured to retrieve a softcopy document corresponding to the hardcopy markup document from a storage device such as the storage device based on the file code and or the file information. The storage device can be the database A of the MFD A a hot folder of the MFD A a Universal Serial Bus USB device connected to one of the interfaces A a server device and so forth.

The editing device A may further be configured to recognize one or more marked regions present on each of the scanned pages of the hardcopy markup document. The marked region s may include one or more editing marks. The editing device A may recognize the marked regions by using suitable methods and systems. Examples of the marked regions recognition methods and systems may include but are not limited to handwriting recognition systems image recognition systems smart learning software systems programmed with pre configured or dynamically configured rules based on common editing markings and so forth. The editing marks may indicate a correction that should be done in the softcopy document corresponding to the scanned hardcopy markup document. The editing marks can be standard proofreader marks used by editors for editing documents. The editing marks may be done using a different colored pen pencil etc. For example if the text of the hardcopy document is of black color then the editing marks may be done using a different color such as but not limited to red blue green and so forth. In some embodiments the editing device may recognize the marked regions based on the color used for editing the document.

In some embodiments when the editing device A cannot identify a specific mark or editing marking other than standard editing marks then the editing device A may ask the user to provide an input or action such as discard the mark etc. or provide instruction or command. The user may provide the input action or provide the instruction or command for processing of the specific mark at the MFD A. The MFD A may store the instruction or command for future purpose for processing of such specific marks. In some embodiments while prompting the user for action for unidentified specific marks simultaneously the editing device A keeps on identifying the next marks in the hardcopy markup document and may not wait for the input from the user . Further in case no input is received from the user then the editing device A may discard the specific mark.

The editing device A may further be configured to create an edit information document based on the recognized one or more marked regions. The edit information document may be an extensible markup language XML file a comma separated values CSV file and so forth. The editing device A may further be configured to convert the marked regions present on the scanned hardcopy markup document into text format or a word format. The scanned copy is an image file such as a JPEG TIFF etc. The editing device A may convert the marked regions into an editable format that can be edited electronically. In some embodiments the editing device A may convert the marked regions into an editable format using the OCR technology.

The editing device A may further be configured to create an edited softcopy document by making one or more changes on each page of the retrieved softcopy document based on the created edit information document to create an edited softcopy document. The edited softcopy document may be displayed to the user on the interfaces A of the MFD A or may be sent to the e mail ID of the user . In some embodiments the edited softcopy document may be stored in the storage device or the database A.

Though not shown the editing device A may be present on any device in the network such as the server device . In such embodiments the MFD A may not include the editing device A and the server device may include the editing device A.

The transceiver device may be configured to receive electronic documents from the MFD B. The documents may be scanned hardcopy documents softcopy documents and other similar documents. The transceiver may also be configured to send the edited softcopy documents to the MFD B.

At step the user may scan the one or more pages of the hardcopy markup document at the MFD A by using one of the interfaces A. In some embodiments the scanning device scans the pages of the hardcopy markup document. Further the hardcopy markup document may include a graphic a chart a photo a PowerPoint an electronic file from a tablet or pen that has an electronic handwriting and markups on it that could be entered directly into the MFD A. In some embodiments the user may enter his her login credentials for authentication at the MFD A. An authentication device of the MFD A may authenticate the user and based on the authentication the user may be allowed to access the one or more services at the MFD A. The hardcopy markup document may include one or more editing marks made by either the user or by some other user. The editing marks may be the standard editing marks that are usually used for editing documents. Examples of the editing marks may include double underline for making the text being double underlined BOLD Striking a word for deleting the word and so forth.

Then at step file information of the scanned hardcopy markup document is identified. In some embodiments the editing device A identifies the file information from the scanned hardcopy markup document. The file information can include such as but not limited to a file name page numbers of the pages of the document a date of created of the document the author of the documents and so forth. In some embodiments the file information may be received by the input device A from the user via the interfaces A. In alternate embodiments the file information is extracted from a file code present on the scanned hardcopy markup document. The file code can be but not limited to a Quick Response QR code a bar code and so forth. The file code may include the file information.

At step a softcopy document is retrieved from a storage device based on the file information. The softcopy document is the electronic document corresponding to the hardcopy markup document stored in the storage device . In some embodiments the editing device A may also be configured to retrieve a softcopy document corresponding to the hardcopy markup document from a storage device such as the storage device based on the file code and or the file information. In some embodiments the softcopy document is retrieved based on the text recognition of the text of the hardcopy markup documents. The storage device can be the database A of the MFD A a hot folder of the MFD A a Universal Serial Bus USB device connected to one of the interfaces A a server device and so forth.

Then at step one or more marked regions present on any page of the scanned hardcopy markup document are recognized. In some embodiments the editing device A or A recognizes the marked regions. The marked regions may include editing mark s . The editing mark s may indicate a correction that should be done in the softcopy document corresponding to the scanned hardcopy markup document. The editing mark s are the standard markings used by editors for editing documents. The editing mark s may be done using a different colored pen pencil etc. For example if the text of the hardcopy document is of black color then the editing mark s may be made using a different color such as but not limited to red blue green and so forth. In some embodiments the editing device may recognize the marked regions based on the color used for editing the document or any other techniques known in the art related art or developed later including those corresponding to handwriting recognition systems image recognition systems and smart learning systems.

Thereafter at step an edit information document is created based on the recognized marked regions. The edit information document may be created by the editing device using any suitable format such as but not limiting to XML file format CSV file format and so forth. Then at step the marked regions are converted into an editable format such as a text format. In some embodiments the editing device may convert the marked regions present on the scanned hardcopy markup document into an editable format such as a text format or an MS word format by using the OCR technology. Usually the scanned copy is an image file such as a JPEG etc. The editing device may convert the marked regions into an editable format that can be edited electronically.

Thereafter at step an edited softcopy document is created by making one or more changes on each page of the retrieved softcopy document based on the edit information document. In some embodiments the editing device may create the edited softcopy document. The editing device may further store the edited softcopy document at the storage device or may send the same at an e mail ID of the user .

In an exemplary scenario the user may print a document on a medium such as a paper a plastic sheet wood and so forth for editing. The user may edit the printed document i.e. a hardcopy of the document using one or more editing marks. Further the user may make one or more editing marks using a color different than that of text in the hardcopy markup document. For example if the text in hardcopy document is of black color then the editing marks may be made using a red color. The user or another user may create an edited softcopy document by using the MFD A as disclosed above. The user can authenticate himself herself at the MFD A by entering login credentials at the MFD A. The user may then scan the hardcopy markup document at the MFD A to generate a scanned hardcopy markup document. The MFD A or the editing device A of the MFD A identifies the file information from a file code present on the scanned hardcopy markup document. The MFD A may request the file information from the user . The file information may include a file name of the scanned hardcopy markup document.

Based on the file information the MFD A may retrieve a softcopy document corresponding to the scanned hardcopy markup document from the storage device for example a USB storage device. The one or more marked regions are recognized by the MFD A and an edit information file such as an XML file including information about editing marks and actions required for editing the softcopy document. The MFD A or the editing device A may make changes in the document based on the edit information document to create an edited softcopy document corresponding to the hardcopy markup document. Further changes on each page of the softcopy document are made based on the edit information file.

In an embodiment the MFD B may send the edit information file and or the softcopy document to the server device for further processing and creation of an edited softcopy document.

At step the user may scan the one or more pages of the hardcopy markup document at the MFD B by using one of the interfaces A. In some embodiments the scanning device B scans the pages of the hardcopy markup document and creates a scanned hardcopy document. In some embodiments the user may enter his her login credentials for authentication at the MFD B. An authentication device of the MFD B may authenticate the user and based on the authentication the user may be allowed to access the one or more services at the MFD B. The scanned hardcopy markup document may include one or more editing marks made by either the user or by some other user. The editing marks may be the standard editing marks that are usually used for editing documents. Examples of the editing marks may include double underline for making the text being double underlined BOLD striking a word for deleting the word and so forth. Alternatively some embodiments can configure the editing device B to read and process customized editing marks or specialized editing marks that can be associated with a particular language.

At step file information of the scanned hardcopy markup document is identified. In some embodiments the editing device B identifies the file information from the scanned hardcopy markup document. The file information can include document information such as but not limited to a file name page numbers of the pages of the document document creation date the author of the documents and so forth. In some embodiments the file information may be received by the input device B from the user via the interfaces B. In alternate embodiments the file information is extracted from a file code present on the scanned hardcopy markup document. The file code can include but is not limited to a Quick Response QR code a bar code and so forth. The file code may include the file information.

At step a softcopy document is retrieved from a storage device such as the storage device based on the file information. The softcopy document may be an electronic document corresponding to the hardcopy markup document stored in the storage device B. The softcopy document is similar to the hardcopy markup document but may not include any editing markings. In some embodiments the editing device B may also be configured to retrieve a softcopy document corresponding to the hardcopy markup document from a storage device such as the storage device based on the file code and or the file information. The storage device can be the database B of the MFD B a hot folder of the MFD B a Universal Serial Bus USB device connected to one of the interfaces B a server device and so forth.

Then at step the MFD B may send the scanned hardcopy document to the server device for further processing. In some embodiments the MFD B may further send a softcopy document corresponding to the scanned hardcopy markup document to the server device . In alternative embodiments the server device may store the softcopy document corresponding to the scanned hardcopy markup document. Further the transceiver device may send the documents i.e. the softcopy document scanned hardcopy markup document etc. to the server device .

Then at step one or more marked regions present on each page of the scanned hardcopy markup document are recognized. In some embodiments the editing device B of the server device recognizes the marked regions. The marked regions may include editing mark s . The editing mark s may indicate a correction that should be done in the softcopy document corresponding to the scanned hardcopy markup document. The editing mark s are the standard markings used by editors for editing documents. The editing mark s may be done using a different colored pen pencil etc. For example if the text of the hardcopy document is of black color then the editing mark s may be made using a different color such as but not limited to red blue green and so forth. In some embodiments the editing device B may recognize the marked regions based on the color used for editing the document or any other techniques known in the art related art or developed later including those corresponding to handwriting recognition systems image recognition systems and smart learning systems.

Thereafter at step an edit information document is created based on the recognized marked regions. The edit information document may be created by the editing device using any suitable format such as but not limiting to XML file format CSV file format and so forth. Then at step the marked regions are converted into an editable format such as a text format. In some embodiments the editing device B may convert the marked regions present on the scanned hardcopy markup document into an editable format such as a text format or an MS word format by using the OCR technology. Usually the scanned copy is an image file such as a JPEG etc. The editing device B may convert the marked regions into an editable format that can be edited electronically.

Thereafter at step an edited softcopy document is created by making one or more changes on each page of the retrieved softcopy document based on the edit information document. In some embodiments the editing device B may create the edited softcopy document. The MFD B may include a GSM device not shown or suitable telecommunication network device for enabling exchange of messages emails etc. between the MFD B and network devices such as the server device present in the network .

Then at step the edited softcopy document is sent to the MFD B for presenting to the user . The edited softcopy document may be stored at the storage device or may be sent to an e mail ID of the user .

In some embodiments the user may also access the one or more functionality of the editing device B through an internet browsing application. Examples of the browsing applications may include Firefox Mozilla Google Chrome Internet Explorer and so forth. The user may access by entering a uniform resource locator URL address on the MFD B or on a computing device like a computer laptop smart phone and so forth. The MFD B may also send the scanned copy of the hardcopy markup document to the computing device of the user . The computing device may send the scanned hardcopy markup document and or storage device to the server device for creating an edited softcopy document.

It will be understood that the devices and the databases referred to in the previous sections are not necessarily utilized together method or system of the embodiments. Rather these devices are merely exemplary of the various devices that may be implemented within a MFD imaging device or scanning device and can be implemented in exemplary another devices and other devices as appropriate that can communicate via a network to the exemplary imaging and printing devices.

It will be appreciated that several of the above disclosed and other features and functions or alternatives thereof may be desirably combined into many other different systems or applications. Various presently unforeseen or unanticipated alternatives modifications variations or improvements therein may be subsequently made by those skilled in the art which are also intended to be encompassed by the following claims.

The above description does not provide specific details of manufacture or design of the various components. Those of skill in the art are familiar with such details and unless departures from those techniques are set out techniques known related art or later developed designs and materials should be employed. Those in the art are capable of choosing suitable manufacturing and design details.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the disclosure. It will be appreciated that several of the above disclosed and other features and functions or alternatives thereof may be combined into other systems methods or applications. Various presently unforeseen or unanticipated alternatives modifications variations or improvements therein may subsequently be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope of the present disclosure as encompassed by the following claims.

