---

title: Autonomous vehicle operation in view-obstructed environments
abstract: Arrangements related to operating an autonomous vehicle in view-obstructed environments are described. At least a portion of an external environment of the autonomous vehicle can be sensed to detect one or more objects located therein. An occupant viewable area of the external environment can be determined. It can be determined whether one or more of the detected one or more objects is located outside of the determined occupant viewable area. Responsive to determining that a detected object is located outside of the determined occupant viewable area, one or more actions can be taken. For instance, the action can include presenting an alert within the autonomous vehicle. Alternatively or in addition, the action can include causing a current driving action of the autonomous vehicle to be modified.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09649979&OS=09649979&RS=09649979
owner: Toyota Motor Engineering & Manufacturing North America, Inc.
number: 09649979
owner_city: Erlanger
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150129
---
The subject matter described herein relates in general to vehicles having an autonomous operational mode and more particularly to the operation of such vehicles in view obstructed portions of a driving environment.

Some vehicles include an operational mode in which a computing system is used to navigate and or maneuver the vehicle along a travel route with minimal or no input from a human driver. Such vehicles include sensors that are configured to detect information about the surrounding environment including the presence of objects in the environment. The computing systems are configured to process the detected information to determine how to navigate and or maneuver the vehicle through the surrounding environment. Due to various reasons there may be differences between what a human occupant of the vehicle can sense in the surrounding environment and what vehicle sensors can detect in the surrounding environment.

In one respect the present disclosure is directed to a method of operating an autonomous vehicle in a view obstructed environment. The method can include sensing at least a portion of an external environment of the autonomous vehicle to detect one or more objects located therein. The method can also include determining an occupant viewable area of the external environment. The method can further include determining whether one or more of the detected one or more objects is located outside of the determined occupant viewable area. The method can include responsive to determining that one or more of the detected one or more objects is located outside of the determined occupant viewable area presenting an alert within the autonomous vehicle.

In another respect the present disclosure is directed to a system for operating an autonomous vehicle in a view obstructed environment. The system includes a sensor system and a processor operatively connected to the sensor system. The sensor system can be configured to detect one or more objects located in at least a portion of an external environment of the autonomous vehicle. The processor is programmed to initiate executable operations. The executable operations can include determining an occupant viewable area of the external environment. The executable operations can also include determining whether one or more of the detected one or more objects is located outside of the determined occupant viewable area. The executable operations can further include responsive to determining that one or more of the detected one or more objects is located outside of the determined occupant viewable area presenting an alert within the autonomous vehicle.

In still another respect the present disclosure is directed to a method of operating an autonomous vehicle in a view obstructed environment. The method can include sensing at least a portion of an external environment of the autonomous vehicle to detect one or more objects located therein. The method can also include determining an occupant viewable area of the external environment. The method can further include determining whether one or more of the detected one or more objects is located outside of the determined occupant viewable area. The method can include responsive to determining that one or more of the detected one or more objects is located outside of the determined occupant viewable area causing a modification to a current driving action of the autonomous vehicle.

In a further respect the present disclosure is directed to a system for operating an autonomous vehicle in a view obstructed environment. The system includes a sensor system and a processor operatively connected to the sensor system. The sensor system can be configured to detect one or more objects located in at least a portion of an external environment of the autonomous vehicle. The processor is programmed to initiate executable operations. The executable operations can include determining an occupant viewable area of the external environment. The executable operations can also include determining whether one or more of the detected one or more objects is located outside of the determined occupant viewable area. The executable operations can further include responsive to determining that one or more of the detected one or more objects is located outside of the determined occupant viewable area causing a modification to a current driving action of the autonomous vehicle.

In still another respect the present disclosure is directed to a method of operating an autonomous vehicle in a view obstructed environment. The method can include identifying an information critical area along a current travel route of the vehicle. The information critical area can be related to a future driving action. The method can also include determining an occupant viewable area of the external environment. The method can further include determining whether at least a portion of the information critical area is located outside of the determined occupant viewable area. The method can include responsive to determining that at least a portion of the information critical area is located outside of the determined occupant viewable area causing a modification to a current driving action of the autonomous vehicle.

In yet another respect the present disclosure is directed to a system for operating an autonomous vehicle in a view obstructed environment. The system can include a processor. The processor is programmed to initiate executable operations. The executable operations can include identifying an information critical area along a current travel route. The information critical area can be related to a future driving action. The executable operations can also include determining an occupant viewable area of the external environment. The executable operations can further include determining whether at least a portion of the information critical area is located outside of the determined occupant viewable area. The executable operations can also include responsive to determining that at least a portion of the information critical area is located outside of the determined occupant viewable area causing a modification to a current driving action of the autonomous vehicle.

This detailed description relates to the operation of an autonomous vehicle in view obstructed environments. In one or more implementations it can be determined whether objects detected by a sensor system of the autonomous vehicle are located outside of a determined occupant viewable area. In response to determining that an object is located outside of a determined occupant viewable area the autonomous vehicle can be configured to perform one or more actions including for example presenting an alert within the autonomous vehicle and or causing a modification to a current driving action of the autonomous vehicle. In one or more implementations an information critical area along a travel route can be identified. If at least a portion of the information critical area is located outside of a determined occupant viewable area then a current driving action of the autonomous vehicle can be caused to be modified. The present detailed description relates to systems methods and computer program products that incorporate such features. In at least some instances such systems methods and computer program products can improve occupant confidence in the autonomous operation of the vehicle.

Detailed embodiments are disclosed herein however it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are intended only as exemplary. Therefore specific structural and functional details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting but merely as a basis for the claims and as a representative basis for teaching one skilled in the art to variously employ the aspects herein in virtually any appropriately detailed structure. Further the terms and phrases used herein are not intended to be limiting but rather to provide an understandable description of possible implementations. Various embodiments are shown in but the embodiments are not limited to the illustrated structure or application.

It will be appreciated that for simplicity and clarity of illustration where appropriate reference numerals have been repeated among the different figures to indicate corresponding or analogous elements. In addition numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments described herein. However it will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that the embodiments described herein can be practiced without these specific details.

Referring to an example a vehicle is shown. As used herein vehicle means any form of motorized transport. In one or more implementations the vehicle can be an automobile. While arrangements will be described herein with respect to automobiles it will be understood that embodiments are not limited to automobiles. In one or more implementations the vehicle may be a watercraft an aircraft or any other form of motorized transport. The vehicle can have a front end and a back end .

According to arrangements herein the vehicle can be an autonomous vehicle. As used herein autonomous vehicle means a vehicle that configured to operate in an autonomous mode. Autonomous mode means that one or more computing systems are used to navigate and or maneuver the vehicle along a travel route with minimal or no input from a human driver. In one or more arrangements the vehicle can be highly automated. In some instances the vehicle can be configured to be selectively switched between an autonomous mode and a manual mode. Such switching can be implemented in any suitable manner now known or later developed. Manual mode means that a majority of the navigation and or maneuvering of the vehicle along a travel route is performed by a human driver.

The vehicle can include various elements some of which may be a part of an autonomous driving system. Some of the possible elements of the vehicle are shown in and will now be described. It will be understood that it is not necessary for the vehicle to have all of the elements shown in or described herein. The vehicle can have any combination of the various elements shown in . Further the vehicle can have additional elements to those shown in . In some arrangements vehicle may not include one or more of the elements shown in . Further while the various elements are shown as being located within the vehicle in it will be understood that one or more of these elements can be located external to the vehicle . Further the elements shown may be physically separated by large distances.

The vehicle can include one or more processors . Processor means any component or group of components that are configured to execute any of the processes described herein or any form of instructions to carry out such processes or cause such processes to be performed. The processor may be implemented with one or more general purpose and or one or more special purpose processors. Examples of suitable processors include microprocessors microcontrollers DSP processors and other circuitry that can execute software. Further examples of suitable processors include but are not limited to a central processing unit CPU an array processor a vector processor a digital signal processor DSP a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic array PLA an application specific integrated circuit ASIC programmable logic circuitry and a controller. The processor can include at least one hardware circuit e.g. an integrated circuit configured to carry out instructions contained in program code. In arrangements in which there is a plurality of processors such processors can work independently from each other or one or more processors can work in combination with each other. In one or more arrangements the processor can be a main processor of the vehicle . For instance the processor can be an engine control unit ECU .

The vehicle can include one or more data stores for storing one or more types of data. The data store can include volatile and or non volatile memory. Examples of suitable data stores include RAM Random Access Memory flash memory ROM Read Only Memory PROM Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory registers magnetic disks optical disks hard drives or any other suitable storage medium or any combination thereof. The data store can be a component of the processor or the data store can be operatively connected to the processor for use thereby. The term operatively connected as used throughout this description can include direct or indirect connections including connections without direct physical contact.

The vehicle can include an autonomous driving module . The autonomous driving module can be implemented as computer readable program code that when executed by a processor implement one or more of the various processes described herein including for example determining a modification to a current driving action of the vehicle and or causing directly or indirectly a current driving action of the vehicle to be modified. The autonomous driving module can be a component of the processor or the autonomous driving module can be executed on and or distributed among other processing systems to which the processor is operatively connected.

The autonomous driving module can include instructions e.g. program logic executable by the processor . Such instructions can include instructions to execute various vehicle functions and or to transmit data to receive data from interact with and or control the vehicle or one or more systems thereof e.g. one or more of vehicle systems . Alternatively or in addition the data store may contain such instructions.

The vehicle can include a viewing analysis module . The viewing analysis module can be implemented as computer readable program code that when executed by a processor implement one or more of the various processes described herein. The viewing analysis module can be a component of the processor or the viewing analysis module can be executed on and or distributed among other processing systems to which the processor is operatively connected.

The viewing analysis module can be configured to detect analyze assess and or interpret information about a vehicle occupant and or an external environment of the vehicle to determine an occupant viewable area. Occupant viewable area means a portion of the external environment that is visible to a vehicle occupant. The determination of the occupant vehicle area can be based on one or more factors including for example the location of an occupant within the vehicle obstructions in the external environment e.g. other vehicles weather conditions etc. obstructions in the vehicle e.g. portions of the vehicle frame or molding blocking the field of view window tinting etc. seat position e.g. height location in a longitudinal direction of the vehicle reclining position etc. human occupant physical measurements e.g. height human occupant physical limitations and or human occupant sensory perception limitations just to name a few possibilities. The human occupant physical measurement human occupant physical limitations and or human occupant sensory perception limitations can be based on data of a particular human being an average human being or other data set.

In one or more arrangements the human occupant physical measurements can be based on actual measurements of one or more features of a human occupant. As an example one or more images of at least a portion of the body of a human occupant can be captured. For instance one or more images of at least a portion of the body of a human occupant can be captured by a scanner camera and or sensor. The viewing analysis module or other element can include any suitable body recognition software and or body analysis software. In one or more arrangements at least a portion of the face of a human occupant can be captured. Facial recognition and or analysis software can be used to facilitate image capture and or to analyze captured images. Analyzing the images can include determining or measuring one or more physical features of a human occupant such as eye size pupillary distance distance between the eyes distance between at least one of the eyes and one or more other facial or body features distance between at least one of the eyes and a structure within the vehicle head angles eye angles the vertical meridian in each eye the horizontal meridian in each eye just to name a few possibilities.

In one or more arrangements such measurements can be used at least in part to determine the occupant viewable area. In one or more arrangements the occupant viewable area can also be determined by factoring in information data about the field of vision of a human being. For instance in one or more arrangements a predetermined field of human vision can include a set of predetermined vision ranges which can be based on a particular human being an average human being or other data set. As an example one set of predetermined vision ranges can include about 60 degrees nasally e.g. toward the nose or inward from the vertical meridian in each eye to about 100 degrees temporally e.g. away from the nose or outward from the vertical meridian in each eye and about 60 degrees above and about 75 degrees below the horizontal meridian of each eye.

In one or more arrangements the viewing analysis module can be configured to determine or account for the actual vision ranges of a human occupant of the vehicle when determining the occupant viewable area. For instance the viewing analysis module can be configured to obtain access and or receive information data related to one or more aspects of the vision of a human occupant of the vehicle. For instance the viewing analysis module can be configured to conduct at least a partial visual field test of a human occupant of the vehicle . Alternatively or in addition the viewing analysis module can receive information data or inputs corresponding to a human occupant s vision including information data concerning any medical conditions corrective lenses visual acuity prior vision tests etc.

The viewing analysis module can be configured to determine the location of an object detected in the external environment relative to the occupant viewable area. More particularly the viewing analysis module can be configured to determine whether an object detected in the external environment is located outside of the occupant viewable area. Alternatively or in addition the viewing analysis module can be configured to determine whether at least a portion of an information critical area of the external environment is located outside of the determined occupant viewable area.

The viewing analysis module can include instructions e.g. program logic executable by the processor . Such instructions can include instructions to determine an occupant viewable area to determine the location of a detected object relative to the occupant viewable area and or to determine whether at least a portion of an information critical area is located outside of the determined occupant viewable area. Alternatively or in addition the data store may contain such instructions.

The vehicle can include an information critical area determination module . The information critical area determination module can be implemented as computer readable program code that when executed by a processor implement the various processes described herein. The information critical area determination module can be a component of the processor or the information critical area determination module can be executed on and or distributed among other processing systems to which the processor is operatively connected.

The information critical area determination module can be configured to identify an information critical area along a travel route of the vehicle. Information critical area means any portion of an external environment of a vehicle in which information contained therein is critical for a human driver to sense when performing a future driving action. In this context critical means information that is important in determining whether the vehicle can safely and successfully complete a future driving action. The information critical area can change as there are changes in the location position and or direction of the vehicle .

The information critical area determination module can be operatively connected to a sensor system a camera system a navigation system and or other element of the vehicle to identify an information critical area. In one or more arrangements the information critical area determination module can be operatively connected to one or more one or more of the data stores which can include mapping or other data. As the vehicle travels along a travel route future driving actions that the vehicle will perform along the travel route can be assessed relative to other portions of the external environment.

Various examples of information critical areas are described herein. For instance if a vehicle is approaching an intersection and a right turn is planned onto a transverse street then one information critical area would be at least a portion of the transverse street that is located to the left of the intersection. One example of such an area is shown at in and will be described in greater detail later. The presence or absence of objects in such an area would be critical to the future driving action e.g. turning right onto the transverse street . In one or more arrangements the information critical area can be located within a predetermined area or distance. For instance for the information critical area shown in the information critical area can extend from the intersection to a predetermined distance away from the intersection. In one or more arrangements the predetermined distance can be about 50 feet or less about 75 feet or less about 100 feet or less about 150 feet or less about 200 feet or less etc.

As noted above the vehicle can include a sensor system . The sensor system can include one or more sensors. Sensor means any device component and or system that can detect determine assess monitor measure quantify and or sense something. The one or more sensors can be configured to detect determine assess monitor measure quantify and or sense in real time. As used herein the term real time means a level of processing responsiveness that a user or system senses as sufficiently immediate for a particular process or determination to be made or that enables the processor to keep up with some external process. The sensor system can have an associated sensor detection area. Sensor detection area means a portion of an environment that is located within the range of one or more sensors of a sensor system. The sensor detection area of the sensor system can be determined by for example the sensor system the viewing analysis module or other module or element.

In arrangements in which the sensor system includes a plurality of sensors the sensors can work independently from each other. Alternatively two or more of the sensors can work in combination with each other. The sensor system and or the one or more sensors can be operatively connected to the processor the data store the autonomous driving module and or other element of the vehicle .

The sensor system can include any suitable type of sensor. For example the sensor system can include one or more sensors configured to detect determine assess monitor measure quantify and or sense information about the vehicle . Alternatively or in addition the sensor system can include one or more sensors configured to detect determine assess monitor measure quantify and or sense information about the external environment in which the vehicle is located including information about objects in the external environment. Such objects may be stationary object or moving objects. Alternatively or in addition to one or more of the above examples the sensor system can include one or more sensors configured to detect determine assess monitor measure quantify and or sense the location of the vehicle and or the location of objects in the environment relative to the vehicle . Various examples of these and other types of sensors will be described herein. It will be understood that the embodiments are not limited to the particular sensors described.

The sensor system can include one or more sensors configured to detect determine assess monitor measure quantify and or sense position and orientation changes of the vehicle such as for example based on inertial acceleration. In one or more arrangements the sensor system can include accelerometers gyroscopes and or other suitable sensors. The sensor system can include sensors that can monitor one or more internal systems of the vehicle e.g. an Omonitor a fuel gauge an engine oil temperature coolant temperature etc. .

The sensor system can include one or more environment sensors . The environment sensors can be configured to detect determine assess monitor measure quantify and or sense objects in at least a portion of the external environment of the vehicle and or information data about such objects. The one or more environment sensors can be provided in any suitable location of the vehicle. In one or more arrangements one or more of the environment sensors can be located toward the front end of the vehicle . In one or more arrangements one or more environment sensors can be located on a left side of the front end of the vehicle . Alternatively or in addition one or more environment sensors can be located on a right side of the front end of the vehicle . Additionally or alternatively one or more environment sensors can be located in any suitable location at or near the back end of the vehicle .

Various examples of the environment sensors will be described herein. However it will be understood that the embodiments are not limited to the particular sensors described.

In one or more arrangements one or more of the environment sensors can use at least in part radio signals e.g. RADAR based sensors . The one or more radio based sensors can be configured to detect determine assess monitor measure quantify and or sense directly or indirectly the presence of one or more objects in the external environment of the vehicle the position of each detected object relative to the vehicle the distance between each detected object and the vehicle in one or more directions e.g. in the longitudinal direction the lateral direction and or other direction s the speed of each detected object and or the movement of each detected object.

In one or more arrangements one or more of the environment sensors can use at least in part lasers. For instance one or more of the environment sensors can be or included as part of a laser rangefinder or a LIDAR. Such devices can include a laser source and or laser scanner configured to emit a laser and a detector configured to detect reflections of the laser. The laser rangefinder or LIDAR may be configured to operate in a coherent or an incoherent detection mode. The one or more laser based sensors can be configured to detect determine assess monitor measure quantify and or sense directly or indirectly the presence of one or more objects in the external environment of the vehicle the position of each detected object relative to the vehicle the distance between each detected object and the vehicle in one or more directions e.g. in the longitudinal direction the lateral direction and or other direction s the speed of each detected object and or the movement of each detected object.

In one or more arrangements one or more of the environment sensors can use at least in part ultrasound. Such sensors can include an ultrasound source configured to emit ultrasonic signals and a detector configured to detect reflections of the ultrasonic signal. The one or more ultrasound based environment sensors can be configured to detect determine assess monitor measure quantify and or sense directly or indirectly the presence of one or more objects in the external environment of the vehicle the position of each detected object relative to the vehicle the distance between each detected object and the vehicle in one or more directions e.g. in the longitudinal direction the lateral direction and or other direction s the speed of each detected object and or the movement of each detected object. Such detecting can be based on a characteristic e.g. the intensity of a reflected ultrasonic signal.

In some arrangements the sensor system the processor and or one or more of the modules can be configured to detect determine assess monitor measure quantify and or sense directly or indirectly one or more aspects characteristics and or properties of a detected object. For example the sensor system the processor and or one or more of the modules can be configured to detect determine assess monitor measure quantify and or sense directly or indirectly the size relative size length width height a dimension the material a material property the speed the acceleration and or the trajectory of a detected object.

Alternatively or in addition to any of the sensors described above the sensor system can include other types of sensors. The sensor system the processor and or one or more of the modules can be operable to control movements of one or more of the sensors of the sensor system . It should be noted that any of the sensors described herein can be provided in any suitable location with respect to the vehicle . For instance one or more sensors can be located within the vehicle one or more sensors can be located on the exterior of the vehicle and or one or more sensors can be located so as to be exposed to the exterior of the vehicle .

The vehicle can include a camera system . In one or more arrangements the camera system can be a part of the sensor system . The camera system can include a one or more cameras and or one or more occupant view cameras . Camera is defined as any device component and or system that can capture visual data. Visual data includes video and or image information data. The visual data can be in any suitable form.

In one or more arrangements one or more of the cameras and or one or more of the occupant view cameras can include a lens not shown and an image capture element not shown . The image capture element can be any suitable type of image capturing device or system including for example an area array sensor a Charge Coupled Device CCD sensor a Complementary Metal Oxide Semiconductor CMOS sensor a linear array sensor a CCD monochrome . The image capture element may capture images in any suitable wavelength on the electromagnetic spectrum. The image capture element may capture color images and or grayscale images. One or more of the cameras and or one or more of the occupant view cameras can be configured with zoom in and or zoom out capabilities.

In one or more arrangements one or more of the cameras and or one or more of the occupant view cameras can be externally facing. Externally facing means a camera that is oriented positioned configured operable and or arranged to capture visual data from at least a portion of the external environment of the vehicle . The one or more cameras and or the one or more occupant view cameras can be located in any suitable portion of the vehicle . For instance one or more of the cameras and or one or more of the occupant view cameras can be located within the vehicle . One or more of the cameras and or one or more of the occupant view cameras can be located on the exterior of the vehicle . One or more of the cameras and or one or more of the occupant view cameras can be located on or exposed to the exterior of the vehicle .

The position of one or more of the cameras and or one or more of the occupant view cameras can be fixed such that its position does not change relative to the vehicle . One or more of the cameras and or one or more of the occupant view cameras can be movable so that its position can change to allow visual data from different portions of the external environment of the vehicle to be captured. The movement of the cameras and or the occupant view cameras can be achieved in any suitable manner. For instance the cameras and or the occupant view cameras can be rotatable about one or more axes pivotable slidable and or extendable just to name a few possibilities. In one or more arrangements the cameras and or the occupant view cameras can have any suitable range of motion including for example substantially spherical substantially hemi spherical substantially circular and or substantially linear. As used herein the term substantially includes exactly the term it modifies and slight variations therefrom. Thus for example the term substantially spherical means exactly spherical and slight variations therefrom.

The one or more cameras the occupant view cameras the movement of the one or more cameras and or the movement of the one or more occupant view cameras can be controlled by the camera system the sensor system the processor and or any one or more of the modules .

 Occupant view camera means any camera that is configured positioned located movable and or oriented to capture acquire and or collect visual data of an external environment of a vehicle to determine or assess the portion or portions of the external environment that can actually be seen by a human occupant of the vehicle. The occupant viewable area can be determined by for example the viewing analysis module and or the processor . The one or more occupant view cameras can be provided in any suitable location. For instance the one or more occupant view cameras can be located within the interior of the vehicle .

In one or more arrangements one or more occupant view cameras can be provided to capture acquire and or collect visual data so that an occupant viewable area for the driver of the vehicle can be determined. Alternatively or in addition one or more occupant view cameras can be provided to capture acquire and or collect visual data so that an occupant viewable area for a non driver passenger of the vehicle can be determined.

The viewing analysis module and or the processor can be configured to analyze visual data captured by the one or more occupant view cameras to determine an occupant viewable area. The viewing analysis module and or the processor can be configured to analyze information data captured by the sensor system with respect to detected objects in the external environment and to locate the detected objects relative to the occupant viewable area. The sensor system the viewing analysis module and or the processor can be configured to determine a sensor detection area. The viewing analysis module and or the processor can be configured to assess or compare the occupant viewable area and the sensor detection area.

The vehicle can include an input system . An input system is defined as any device component system element or arrangement or groups thereof that enable information data to be entered into a machine. The input system can receive an input from a vehicle occupant e.g. a driver or a passenger . Any suitable input system can be used including for example a keypad display touch screen multi touch screen button joystick mouse trackball microphone and or combinations thereof.

The vehicle can include an output system . An output system is defined as any device component system element or arrangement or groups thereof that enable information data to be presented to a user e.g. a person vehicle occupant etc. . The output system can include a display as described above. Alternatively or in addition the output system may include a microphone earphone and or speaker. Some components of the vehicle may serve as both a component of the input system and a component of the output system .

In one or more arrangements described herein at least a portion of the output system can be activated to provide an alert responsive to determining that one or more objects detected in the external environment is located outside of a determined occupant viewable area. The output system can be configured to present an alert to one or more occupants of the vehicle . The alert can be any type of alert including for example a visual alert . Visual alert is any output that provides information in a manner that is perceptible to the human sense of sight. The visual alert can visually alert a vehicle occupant to the presence of an object detected in the external environment of the vehicle that is located outside of the determined occupant viewable area. The visual alert can have any suitable form. The visual alert can be presented by one or more components of the output system such as one or more displays and or one or more light sources located within in the vehicle .

A display is defined as a component or a group of components that present information data in visual form including for example video images graphics etc. In one or more arrangements the display can be located in a front interior portion of a vehicle . As an example the display can be included in a dashboard or instrument panel not shown of the vehicle .

The display can be any suitable type of display. The display can be any suitable type of display. For instance the display can be a liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting diode LED display or some other suitable display. In one or more arrangements the display can be a touch screen display a multi touch display or a remotely controlled display. A touch screen can allow a user to engage or interact with one or more displayed elements such as a graphical user interface GUI and or other applications running on any vehicle system including any of those described herein through contact with the display . For example a user may make selections and move a cursor by simply touching the display via a finger or stylus.

The visual alert can have any suitable form. In one or more arrangements the visual alert can be a word a phrase or a message presented on the display . In one or more arrangements the visual alert can include representations of one or more items. For instance the visual alert can include a representation of the external environment. The representation of the external environment can present graphical photographic video and or map information or data which can be obtained from any suitable source including for example from the data store the navigation system and other source to which one or more elements of the vehicle are operatively connected. Such visual information data can be presented in real time on the display .

The visual alert can include a representation of the one or more objects detected in the external environment. The visual alert can include a representation of the occupant viewable area. The visual alert can include a representation of the sensor detection area of the external environment. In one or more arrangements the representation of the one or more objects the representation of the occupant viewable area and or the representation of the sensor detection area can be overlaid upon the representation of the external environment.

Alternatively or in addition the visual alert can be presented by one or more light sources . The one or more light sources can generate or emit any type of light energy. In one or more arrangements the one or more light sources can be electric powered. In one or more arrangements the one or more light sources can include one or more of the following types of electric powered light sources electron stimulated incandescent lamps electroluminescent EL lamps gas discharge lamps high intensity discharge lamps and or lasers just to name a few possibilities. In one or more arrangements the one or more light sources can be light emitting diodes LEDs . For instance the one or more light sources can be organic LEDs polymer LEDs solid state lighting LED lamps and or active matrix organic LEDs. In some arrangements the one or more light sources can be the same type of light source. In other arrangements one or more of the one or more light sources can be a different type of light source than the other light sources.

Alternatively or in addition being a visual alert the alert can be an audial alert . Audial alert is any output that provides information in a manner that is perceptible to the human sense of hearing. The audial alert can inform a vehicle occupant to the presence of an object detected in the external environment of the vehicle that is located outside of the determined occupant viewable area. The audial alert can have any suitable form. The audial alert can be presented by one or more components of the output system such as by being emitted over one or more speakers or over one or more in vehicle audio channels. In such case the audial alert can be a sound a plurality of sounds a word a phrase or a message.

The audial alert can be presented by one or more components of the output system such as by being emitted over one or more speakers . Speaker means one or more elements one or more devices one or more components one or more systems and or any combination thereof that produce sound in response to an audio signal input. Examples of speakers include for example electroacoustic transducers sound chips and sound cards. Each speaker can have one or more audio output channels not shown operatively connected thereto. Audio output channel means any suitable device component or structure for carrying audio signals.

The vehicle can include one or more vehicle systems . Various examples of the one or more vehicle systems are shown in . However the vehicle can include more fewer or different systems. It should be appreciated that although particular vehicle systems are separately defined each or any of the systems or portions thereof may be otherwise combined or segregated via hardware and or software within the vehicle .

The vehicle can include a propulsion system . The propulsion system can include one or more mechanisms devices elements components systems and or combinations thereof now known or later developed configured to provide powered motion for the vehicle . The propulsion system can include an engine and an energy source.

The engine can be any suitable type of engine or motor now known or later developed. For instance the engine can be an internal combustion engine an electric motor a steam engine and or a Stirling engine just to name a few possibilities. In some embodiments the propulsion system could include a plurality of engine types. For instance a gas electric hybrid vehicle can include a gasoline engine and an electric motor.

The energy source can be any suitable source of energy that can be used to at least partially power the engine. The engine can be configured to convert the energy source into mechanical energy. Examples of energy sources include gasoline diesel propane hydrogen other compressed gas based fuels ethanol solar panels batteries and or other sources of electrical power. Alternatively or in addition the energy source can include fuel tanks batteries capacitors and or flywheels. In some embodiments the energy source can be used to provide energy for other systems of the vehicle .

The vehicle can include wheels tires and or tracks. Any suitable type of wheels tires and or tracks can be used. In one or more arrangements the wheels tires and or tracks of the vehicle can be configured to rotate differentially with respect to other wheels tires and or tracks of the vehicle . The wheels tires and or tracks can be made of any suitable material.

The vehicle can include a braking system . The braking system can include one or more mechanisms devices elements components systems and or combinations thereof now known or later developed configured to decelerate the vehicle . As an example the braking system can use friction to slow the wheels tires. The braking system can convert the kinetic energy of the wheels tires to electric current.

Further the vehicle can include a steering system . The steering system can include one or more mechanisms devices elements components systems and or combinations thereof now known or later developed configured to adjust the heading of the vehicle .

The vehicle can include a throttle system . The throttle system can include one or more mechanisms devices elements components systems and or combinations thereof now known or later developed configured to control the operating speed of an engine motor of the vehicle and in turn the speed of the vehicle .

The vehicle can include a transmission system . The transmission system can include one or more mechanisms devices elements components systems and or combinations thereof now known or later developed configured to transmit mechanical power from the engine motor of the vehicle to the wheels tires. For instance the transmission system can include a gearbox clutch differential drive shafts and or other elements. In arrangements where the transmission system includes drive shafts the drive shafts can include one or more axles that are configured to be coupled to the wheels tires.

The vehicle can include a signaling system . The signaling system can include one or more mechanisms devices elements components systems and or combinations thereof now known or later developed configured to provide illumination for the driver of the vehicle and or to provide information with respect to one or more aspects of the vehicle . For instance the signaling system can provide information regarding the vehicle s presence position size direction of travel and or the driver s intentions regarding direction and speed of travel. For instance the signaling system can include headlights taillights brake lights hazard lights and turn signal lights.

The vehicle can include a navigation system . The navigation system can include one or more mechanisms devices elements components systems applications and or combinations thereof now known or later developed configured to determine the geographic location of the vehicle and or to determine a travel route for the vehicle .

The navigation system can include one or more mapping applications to determine a travel route for the vehicle . For instance a driver or passenger may input an origin and a destination. The mapping application can determine one or more suitable travel routes between the origin and the destination. A travel route may be selected based on one or more parameters e.g. shortest travel distance shortest amount of travel time etc. . In some arrangements the navigation system can be configured to update the travel route dynamically while the vehicle is in operation.

The navigation system can include a global positioning system a local positioning system or a geolocation system. The navigation system can be implemented with any one of a number of satellite positioning systems such as the United States Global Positioning System GPS the Russian Glonass system the European Galileo system the Chinese Beidou system or any system that uses satellites from a combination of satellite systems or any satellite system developed in the future including the planned Chinese COMPASS system and the Indian Regional Navigational Satellite System. Further the navigation system can use Transmission Control Protocol TCP and or a Geographic information system GIS and location services.

The navigation system may include a transceiver configured to estimate a position of the vehicle with respect to the Earth. For example navigation system can include a GPS transceiver to determine the vehicle s latitude longitude and or altitude. The navigation system can use other systems e.g. laser based localization systems inertial aided GPS and or camera based localization to determine the location of the vehicle .

Alternatively or in addition the navigation system can be based on access point geolocation services such as using the W3C Geolocation Application Programming Interface API . With such a system the location of the vehicle can be determined through the consulting of location information servers including for example Internet protocol IP address Wi Fi and Bluetooth Media Access Control MAC address radio frequency identification RFID Wi Fi connection location or device GPS and Global System for Mobile Communications GSM code division multiple access CDMA cell IDs. Thus it will be understood that the specific manner in which the geographic position of the vehicle is determined will depend on the manner of operation of the particular location tracking system used.

The processor and or the autonomous driving module can be operatively connected to communicate with the various vehicle systems and or individual components thereof. For example returning to the processor and or the autonomous driving module can be in communication to send and or receive information from the various vehicle systems to control the movement speed maneuvering heading direction etc. of vehicle . The processor and or the autonomous driving module may control some or all of these vehicle systems and thus may be partially or fully autonomous.

The processor and or the autonomous driving module may be operable to control the navigation and or maneuvering of the vehicle by controlling one or more of the vehicle systems and or components thereof. For instance when operating in an autonomous mode the processor and or the autonomous driving module can control the direction and or speed of the vehicle . The processor and or the autonomous driving module can cause the vehicle to accelerate e.g. by increasing the supply of fuel provided to the engine decelerate e.g. by decreasing the supply of fuel to the engine and or by applying brakes and or change direction e.g. by turning the front two wheels . As used herein cause or causing means to make force compel direct command instruct and or enable an event or action to occur or at least be in a state where such event or action may occur either in a direct or indirect manner.

The vehicle can include one or more actuators . The actuators can be any element or combination of elements operable to modify adjust and or alter one or more of the vehicle systems or components thereof to responsive to receiving signals or other inputs from the processor and or the autonomous driving module . Any suitable actuator can be used. For instance the one or more actuators can include motors pneumatic actuators hydraulic pistons relays solenoids and or piezoelectric actuators just to name a few possibilities.

According to arrangements described herein the vehicle can be configured for operating an autonomous vehicle in occupant view obstructed environments. According to arrangements herein the vehicle or one or more elements thereof can be configured to determine an occupant viewable area of the external environment a sensor detection area of the sensor system and or the camera system and or identify an information critical area along a current travel route of the vehicle that is related to a future driving action.

In one or more arrangements an action can be taken in response to determining that one or more detected objects in the external environment is located outside of a determined occupant viewable area. For instance the action can be presenting an alert within the vehicle . Alternatively or in addition the action can be causing a current driving action of the vehicle to be modified. These and other examples of possible actions will be described in greater detail throughout this description. In one or more arrangements the processor the autonomous driving module the viewing analysis module and or other element s can be configured to determine whether one or more detected objects in the external environment is located outside of a determined occupant viewable area.

In one or more arrangements an action can be taken in response to determining that at least a portion of an information critical area is located outside of the determined occupant viewable area. For instance the action can be causing a current driving action of the vehicle to be modified. These and other examples of possible actions will be described in greater detail throughout this description. In one or more arrangements the processor the autonomous driving module the viewing analysis module the information critical area determination module and or other element s can be configured to determine whether at least a portion of an information critical area is located outside of the determined occupant viewable area.

Now that the various potential systems devices elements and or components of the vehicle have been described various methods for operating an autonomous vehicle in a view obstructed environment will now be described. Referring now to an example of a method of operating an autonomous vehicle in view obstructed environment is shown. Various possible steps of method will now be described. The method illustrated in may be applicable to the embodiments described above in relation to but it is understood that the method can be carried out with other suitable systems and arrangements. Moreover the method may include other steps that are not shown here and in fact the method is not limited to including every step shown in . The steps that are illustrated here as part of the method are not limited to this particular chronological order. Indeed some of the steps may be performed in a different order than what is shown and or at least some of the steps shown can occur simultaneously.

At block at least a portion of an external environment of the autonomous vehicle can be sensed to detect one or more objects located therein. In one or more arrangements the detecting of the external environment can be performed by one or more sensors of the sensor system e.g. one or more of the environment sensors and or by the camera system e.g. one or more of the cameras . In some arrangements the detecting of the external environment can be performed continuously or at any suitable interval.

If an object is detected in the external environment the method can continue to block . If no objects are detected in the external environment the method can return to block or the method can end.

At block an occupant viewable area of the external environment can be determined. The determining of the occupant viewable area can be performed by any suitable element or combination of elements of the vehicle . In one or more arrangements the determining of the occupant viewable area can be performed by the sensor system the camera system the viewing analysis module and or the processor . The determining of the occupant viewable area can be performed continuously or at any suitable interval. The method can continue to block .

The one or more detected objects can be located relative to the determined occupant viewable area. In particular at block it can be determined whether one or more of the detected one or more objects is located outside of the determined occupant viewable area. The determining can be performed by any suitable element or combination of elements of the vehicle . For instance in one or more arrangements the determining can be performed by the processor the sensor system the camera system and or the viewing analysis module . The determining of whether one or more of the detected one or more objects is located outside of the determined occupant viewable area can be performed continuously or at any suitable interval. The determination of whether one or more of the detected one or more objects is located outside of the determined occupant viewable area can include comparing the location of the detected one or more objects to the location of the determined occupant viewable area. The method can continue to block .

At block responsive to determining that one or more of the detected one or more objects is located outside of the determined occupant viewable area an alert can be presented within the autonomous vehicle. The alert can be any type of alert including for example a visual alert and or an audial alert . The alert can apprise one or more of the vehicle occupants that the vehicle e.g. the sensor system and or the camera system detects an object that cannot be perceived by one or more of the vehicle occupants.

When the alert is presented the method can end. Alternatively the method can return to block or other block of the method . In one or more arrangements the method can include additional blocks not shown . It should be noted that in one or more arrangements responsive to determining that the detected one or more objects is located within the determined occupant viewable area then no action is taken e.g. no alert is presented . Alternatively or in addition responsive to determining that none of the detected one or more objects are located outside of the determined occupant viewable area then no action is taken e.g. no alert is presented .

A non limiting example of the operation of the vehicle in accordance with the method will now be described in relation to . For purposes of this example the vehicle can be traveling in an environment on a road . As used herein road means a thoroughfare route path or way between two places and upon which a vehicle can travel. The road may be paved or otherwise improved to facilitate travel by a vehicle thereon. In some instances the road may be unpaved or undeveloped. The road may be a public road or a private road. The road can include or be a part of one or more bridges tunnels supporting structures junctions crossings interchanges and toll roads.

The road can include a plurality of travel lanes . As used herein a travel lane is a portion of a road that is designated for use by a single line of vehicles and or a portion of a road that is being used by a single line of vehicles. In some instances the one or more travel lanes can be designated by markings on the road or in any other suitable manner. In some instances the one or more travel lanes may not be marked.

In the arrangement shown in the road can be designated for two way travel. For purposes of this example vehicles can move in a first direction in a first travel lane and a second travel lane and vehicles can move in a second direction in a third travel lane and a fourth travel lane . The first direction can be different than the second direction . For instance the first direction can be substantially opposite to the second direction as is shown in . The first and second travel lanes can be separated from the third and fourth travel lanes by a median . It will be understood that the specific arrangements shown in are provided merely as an example and that arrangements described herein are not limited to this example.

In the current travel lane of the vehicle can be the first travel lane . Current travel lane means a travel lane that a vehicle is traveling on at the present time. Another vehicle e.g. truck can be located in the second travel lane . The vehicle and the truck can be stopped at an intersection.

The vehicle can sense at least a portion of the environment such as by using the sensor system and or the camera system . The vehicle can have an associated detection area . The vehicle can detect the presence of an object e.g. a pedestrian bicyclist animal etc. in the external environment and more particularly within the detection area .

An occupant viewable area of the external environment can be determined. The determining of the occupant viewable area can be performed by for example the camera system the viewing analysis module and or the processor . In this example a portion of the occupant viewable area can be obstructed by the presence of the truck . As a result the occupant viewable area may not be as large as it would otherwise be if the truck were not present. The determining of the occupant viewable area can be performed continuously or at any suitable interval. The occupant viewable area can change based on changes in the external environment e.g. the truck moves another vehicle comes along etc. .

It should be noted that the occupant viewable area shown in is determined for the driver of the vehicle . However arrangements are not limited to the driver viewable area. Indeed as an alternative or in addition the occupant viewable area may include one or more passenger viewable areas.

The location of the detected object relative to the occupant viewable area can be determined. More particularly it can be determined whether the detected object is located outside of the determined occupant viewable area . The determining can be performed by for example the processor and or the viewing analysis module . In this example it can be determined that the detected object is located outside of the determined occupant viewable area .

In response to such a determination an alert can be presented within the vehicle . The alert can be any type of alert including for example a visual alert and or an audial alert . For purposes of this example an audial alert can be presented. The audial alert can provide any suitable information. For instance the audial alert may indicate that an object is detected outside of the occupant viewable area. The audial alert may also indicate the location of the detected object relative to the vehicle the nature of the detected object e.g. vehicle pedestrian etc. the current speed of the detected object and or the current direction in which the detected object is moving just to name a few possibilities.

In one or more arrangements the audial alert can be emitted in a location within the vehicle generally corresponding to the location of the detected object relative to the vehicle . Thus for example in the arrangement shown in the object is located on a left side of the vehicle . Accordingly the audial alert can be emitted within the vehicle on a left side portion thereof such as from one or more speakers located on the left side of the vehicle .

When the alert is presented one or more vehicle occupants can be made aware of the presence of an object in a portion of the environment that is detected by the vehicle but that the one or more vehicle occupants cannot see. With such awareness the one or more vehicle occupants can gain confidence in the autonomous operational mode of the vehicle . Also the driver may decide to operate the vehicle at least partially in the manual mode or may continue to allow the vehicle to continue in the autonomous operational mode.

Another non limiting example of the operation of the vehicle in accordance with the method will now be described in relation to . For purposes of this example the vehicle can be located in an environment . The vehicle can be traveling on a road . The above discussion of the road in is applicable to the road . The road can include a plurality of travel lanes including a first travel lane and a second travel lane .

The current travel lane of the vehicle can be the first travel lane . An object e.g. second vehicle can be located in the second travel lane . The vehicle and the second vehicle can be stopped and awaiting to enter a roundabout . There can be a third vehicle in the environment . The third vehicle can be traveling on the roundabout .

The vehicle can sense at least a portion of the environment such as by using the sensor system and or the camera system . Accordingly the vehicle can have an associated detection area . The vehicle can detect the presence of an object e.g. the third vehicle as at least a portion of the third vehicle is located within the detection area .

An occupant viewable area of the external environment can be determined. The determining of the occupant viewable area can be performed by for example the sensor system the camera system the viewing analysis module and or the processor . In this example the occupant viewable area can be partially obstructed by the presence of the second vehicle . As a result the occupant viewable area may not be as large as it would otherwise be if the second vehicle was not present.

The location of the third vehicle relative to the occupant viewable area can be determined. More particularly it can be determined whether the third vehicle is located outside of the determined occupant viewable area . The determining can be performed by for example the processor and or the viewing analysis module . In this example it is determined that the third vehicle is located outside of the determined occupant viewable area .

In response to such a determination an alert can be presented within the vehicle . The alert can be any type of alert including for example a visual alert and or an audial alert . For purposes of this example a visual alert can be presented. The visual alert can be presented by one or more components of the output system such as one or more displays and or one or more light sources .

The visual alert can have any suitable form. In one or more arrangements the visual alert provide any suitable information. For instance the visual alert may indicate that an object is detected outside of the occupant viewable area. The visual alert may also indicate the location of the detected object relative to the vehicle the nature of the detected object e.g. vehicle pedestrian etc. the current speed of the detected object and or the current direction in which the detected object is moving just to name a few possibilities.

The visual alert can include a representation of the detected object s in the external environment. More particularly the visual alert can include a representation of the detected object s that are located outside of the occupant viewable area. In one or more arrangements the visual alert can include a representation of the detected objects that are located within the occupant viewable area. Alternatively in one or more arrangements the visual alert may not include a representation of the detected objects that are located within the occupant viewable area. As an example in a representation of the second vehicle is not included. The representation of the detected object s can be overlaid upon the representation of the external environment as is shown in . The representation of the detected object s can be substantially accurately positioned relative to the representation of the external environment .

The visual alert can include a representation of the occupant viewable area and or a representation of the detection area . The representation of the occupant viewable area and or the representation of the detection area can be overlaid upon the representation of the external environment . In some instances the representation of the occupant viewable area and or the representation of the detection area can be visually distinguishable from each other in one or more respects including for example different colors shading or borders.

Alternatively or in addition to the above the visual alert can include one or more light sources . In such case one or more of the light sources can be activated to emit light energy to alert an occupant of the vehicle that an object is detected in the external environment that is not within the determined occupant viewable area.

In one or more arrangements the light sources can be activated in a location within the vehicle that generally corresponds to the location of the detected one or more objects located outside of the determined occupant viewable area. Thus for example in the arrangement shown in the object e.g. third vehicle is located on the left side of the vehicle . Accordingly one or more light sources on the left side of the vehicle can be activated.

Another example of a method of operating an autonomous vehicle in view obstructed portions of an external environment will now be described. Referring now to an example of a method of operating an autonomous vehicle in view obstructed portions of an external environment is shown. Various possible steps of method will now be described. The method illustrated in may be applicable to the embodiments described above in relation to but it is understood that the method can be carried out with other suitable systems and arrangements. Moreover the method may include other steps that are not shown here and in fact the method is not limited to including every step shown in . The steps that are illustrated here as part of the method are not limited to this particular chronological order. Indeed some of the steps may be performed in a different order than what is shown and or at least some of the steps shown can occur simultaneously.

Block block and block in are similar to block block and block in respectively. Accordingly the above discussion made with respect to blocks and is equally applicable to blocks respectively. The method can continue to block .

At block responsive to determining that one or more of the detected one or more objects is located outside of the determined occupant viewable area the vehicle can be caused to modify a current driving action of the vehicle . In one or more arrangements the processor and or the autonomous driving module can cause the vehicle to modify the current driving action. The processor and or the autonomous driving module can be operatively connected to one or more of the vehicle systems to cause the modification to the current driving action of the vehicle . In one or more arrangements the processor and or the autonomous driving module can be operable to control the one or more actuators which can control one or more of the vehicle systems or portions thereof to cause the modification to the current driving action of the vehicle .

Any suitable modification to the current driving action of the vehicle can be caused. In one or more arrangements the modification to the current driving action can include reducing the speed of the vehicle . Alternatively or in addition the modification to the current driving action can include moving the vehicle in a conservative manner.

When the current driving action is modified the method can end. Alternatively the method can return to block . As a further alternative the method can include additional blocks not shown . For instance once the vehicle has moved to a point in which the detected one or more objects are located within the occupant viewable area the modification to the current driving action can be discontinued. It should be noted that in one or more arrangements responsive to determining that the detected one or more objects is located within the determined occupant viewable area then no action is taken e.g. the current driving action is not modified . Alternatively or in addition responsive to determining that none of the detected one or more objects are located outside of the determined occupant viewable area then no action is taken e.g. the current driving action is not modified .

A non limiting example of the operation of the vehicle in accordance with the method will now be described in relation to . For purposes of this example the vehicle can be traveling in an environment on a road . The above discussion of the road in is applicable to the road . The road can include a plurality of travel lanes including a first travel lane a second travel lane and a third travel lane .

In the arrangement shown in the road can be designated for two way travel. For purposes of this example vehicles can move in a first travel direction in the first travel lane and the second travel lane and vehicles can move in a second travel direction in the third travel lane . The first travel direction is different from the second travel direction . In one or more arrangements the first travel direction can be substantially opposite to the second travel direction as is shown in . It will be understood that the specific arrangements shown in are provided merely as an example and that arrangements described herein are not limited to this example.

In the current travel lane of the vehicle can be the first travel lane . One or more objects e.g. a truck and a forward vehicle can be located in the second travel lane . An object e.g. a turning vehicle can be located in the third travel lane . The turning vehicle can be awaiting an opportunity to turn left onto a transverse road . The transverse road and the road can have any suitable orientation with respect to each other. For instance the transverse road and the road can be oriented at about 90 degrees relative to each other as is shown in .

The vehicle can sense at least a portion of the environment such as by using the sensor system and or the camera system . The vehicle can have an associated detection area . The vehicle can detect the presence of an object e.g. the turning vehicle as the turning vehicle is located within the detection area .

An occupant viewable area of the external environment can be determined. The determining of the occupant viewable area can be performed by for example the sensor system the camera system the viewing analysis module and or the processor . In this example the occupant viewable area can be partially obstructed by the presence of the truck and or the forward vehicle . As a result the occupant viewable area may not be as large as it would otherwise be in the absence of such obstructing objects.

The location of the turning vehicle relative to the occupant viewable area can be determined. More particularly it can be determined whether the turning vehicle is located outside of the determined occupant viewable area . The determining can be performed by the processor and or the viewing analysis module . In this example it is determined that the turning vehicle is located outside of the determined occupant viewable area .

In response to such a determination the vehicle can be caused to modify a current driving action. For instance the current speed of the vehicle can be reduced. The vehicle can be traveling at a current speed. The speed of the vehicle can be reduced by a predetermined amount relative to the current speed or to the posted speed limit by a predetermined percentage relative to the current speed or to the posted speed limit or to a fixed predetermined speed. In one or more arrangements the predetermined percentage can be at least about 10 at least about 15 at least about 20 at least about 25 at least about 30 at least about 35 at least about 40 at least about 45 or at least about 50 of the current speed of the vehicle or to the posted speed limit. The vehicle can continue to operate at the reduced speed at least until the turning vehicle is determined to be located within the detected occupant viewable area .

Referring now to an example of another method of operating an autonomous vehicle in view obstructed portions of a travel route is shown. Various possible steps of method will now be described. The method illustrated in may be applicable to the embodiments described above in relation to but it is understood that the method can be carried out with other suitable systems and arrangements. Moreover the method may include other steps that are not shown here and in fact the method is not limited to including every step shown in . The steps that are illustrated here as part of the method are not limited to this particular chronological order. Indeed some of the steps may be performed in a different order than what is shown and or at least some of the steps shown can occur simultaneously.

At block an information critical area along at least a portion of the travel route can be identified. The information critical area can be related to a future driving action of the vehicle . In one or more arrangements the identifying of the information critical area can be performed by the information critical area determination module the navigation system and or the processor . In some arrangements the identifying of the information critical area can be performed continuously or at any suitable interval. The method can continue to block .

At block an occupant viewable area of the external environment can be determined. The determining of the occupant viewable area can be performed by any suitable element or combination of elements of the vehicle . In one or more arrangements the determining of the occupant viewable area can be performed by the sensor system the camera system e.g. one or more occupant view cameras the viewing analysis module and or the processor . The determining of the occupant viewable area can be performed continuously or at any suitable interval. The method can continue to block .

At block it can be determined whether at least a portion of the information critical area is located outside of the determined occupant viewable area. The determining can be performed by any suitable element or combination of elements of the vehicle . For instance in one or more arrangements the determining can be performed by the processor the viewing analysis module and or the information critical area determination module . The determining of the occupant viewable area can be performed continuously or at any suitable interval. The method can continue to block .

At block responsive to determining that at least a portion of the information critical area is located outside of the determined occupant viewable area a current driving action of the vehicle can be caused to be modified. Any suitable modification to a current driving action of the vehicle can be performed. For instance the current driving action can be traveling forward at a current speed. In such case the current driving action can be modified by reducing the speed of the vehicle. It should be noted that the modification to the current driving action of the vehicle can be implemented automatically. Further the modification to the current driving action of the vehicle can be implemented regardless of whether the vehicle e.g. the sensor system and or the camera system is able to sense the entire information critical area.

In one or more arrangements the processor and or the autonomous driving module can cause the vehicle to modify the current driving action of the vehicle . The processor and or the autonomous driving module can be operatively connected to one or more of the vehicle systems to cause to modification to current driving action of the vehicle to be implemented. In one or more arrangements the processor and or the autonomous driving module can be operable to control the one or more actuators which can control one or more of the vehicle systems or portions thereof to implement the modification to the current driving action.

When the modification to the current driving action is implemented the method can end. Alternatively the method can return to block . As a further alternative the method can include additional blocks not shown . In some instances once the vehicle has moved to a predetermined point the modification to the current driving action can be discontinued. The predetermined point can be a point at which the information critical area is determined to be located entirely within the occupant viewable area. Alternatively the predetermined point can be a point at which a majority of the information critical area e.g. at least about 51 at least about 55 at least about 60 at least about 65 at least about 70 at least about 75 at least about 80 at least about 85 at least about 90 or at least about 95 is determined to be located within the occupant viewable area.

The method can be implemented in various scenarios. In one or more arrangements the method can be implemented in instances in which the driver is responsible for safe operation of the vehicle . If the vehicle e.g. the sensor system and or the camera system does not detect any objects in an information critical area that is related to a future driving action and if the vehicle e.g. the sensor system and or the autonomous driving module determines that it is safe to proceed with the future driving action the driver of the vehicle may not want and or should not rely on that determination in at least some instances. For instance there could be a failure of at least a portion of the sensor system and or at least a portion of the camera system . In with respect to such information critical areas the driver should visually confirm the safety of the situation instead of relying on the vehicle . Thus if it is determined that the driver cannot see at least a portion of the information critical area that is related to a future driving action then the current speed of the vehicle may be reduced or some other modification to the current driving action can be taken so that the driver or other vehicle occupant can visually or otherwise sense the information critical area.

One non limiting example of the operation of the vehicle in accordance with the method will now be described in relation to . For purposes of this example the vehicle can be traveling in an environment that includes a first road and a second road . The first road and the second road can cross each other to form an intersection . In one or more arrangements traffic with respect to the intersection can be regulated using any suitable traffic control device e.g. stop signs traffic lights etc. . In one or more arrangements the intersection may not have an associated traffic control device. The first road and the second road can be oriented at any suitable angle with respect to each other. For instance the first road and the second road can be oriented at substantially 90 degrees relative to each other as is shown in . However in one or more arrangements the first road and the second road can be oriented at an acute angle with respect to each other. In one or more arrangements the first road and the second road can be angled at an obtuse angle with respect to each other. Further in some arrangements the intersection can be formed by more than two roads.

The first road and the second road can have any suitable configuration and or layout. The first road and or the second road can be designated for two way travel including a plurality of travel lanes. For purposes of this example the first road can include a first set of one or more travel lanes and a second set of one or more travel lanes . The first set of travel lanes can be intended or designated for vehicular travel in a first direction . The second set of travel lanes can be intended or designated for vehicular travel in a second direction . The first direction can be different from the second direction . For example the first direction can be substantially opposite to the second direction .

The first set of travel lanes and the second set of travel lanes can include any suitable type and or quantity of travel lanes. For instance shows an example in which at least which respect to the portion of the first road below the intersection the first set of travel lanes can include a travel lane and a dedicated right turn lane . The second set of travel lanes can include a single travel lane .

The second road can include a third set of one or more travel lanes and a fourth set of one or more travel lanes . The third set of travel lanes can be intended or designated for vehicular travel in a third direction . The fourth set of travel lanes can be intended or designated for vehicular travel in a fourth direction . The third direction can be different from the fourth direction . For example the third direction can be substantially opposite to the fourth direction .

The third set of travel lanes and the fourth set of travel lanes can include any suitable type and or quantity of travel lanes. For instance shows an example in which the third set of travel lanes can include a travel lane and the fourth set of travel lanes can include a travel lane .

It will be understood that arrangements shown and described herein with respect to the first road the second road and or the intersection are provided merely as examples and arrangements are not limited to the particular arrangements shown and described. Indeed arrangements described herein can be used in connection with roads having any quantity type and or arrangement of travel lanes.

The vehicle can be traveling on the first road . The current travel path of the vehicle can include turning right onto the second road . The vehicle can be approaching the intersection while traveling in the first direction . As it approaches the intersection the current travel lane of the vehicle can be the dedicated right turn lane . There can be another vehicle located in the travel lane . The vehicle and the other vehicle can be presented with an indication to stop before proceeding into the intersection such as by a traffic control device.

An information critical area along at least a portion of the travel route can be identified by the vehicle e.g. the information critical area determination module the navigation system and or the processor . The information critical area can be related to a future planned driving action of the vehicle . In this example the future planned driving action can be turning right onto the second road . As a result one information critical area can include an information critical area of the travel lane located to the left in of the intersection since any vehicles traveling in this information critical area would be of concern to the vehicle as it turns onto the second road .

The vehicle can determine an occupant viewable area of the external environment . However the occupant viewable area can be affected due to the presence of the other vehicle . In such case the occupant viewable area may not be as large as it would otherwise be in the absence of the other vehicle .

The vehicle the viewing analysis module the information critical area determination module and or the processor can determine whether at least a portion of the information critical area is located outside of the determined occupant viewable area . Responsive to determining that at least a portion of the information critical area is located outside of the determined occupant viewable area a current driving action of the vehicle can be caused to be modified. For instance the modification to the current driving action of the vehicle can include reducing a current speed of the vehicle . In such case the current speed of the vehicle can be reduced to a reduced speed. The reduced speed can be maintained at least until the detected occupant viewable area of the informational critical area includes the entire information critical area or at least a substantial majority of the information critical area.

In one or more arrangements the processor and or the autonomous driving module can cause the vehicle to modify the current driving action. The processor and or the autonomous driving module can be operatively connected to one or more of the vehicle systems to implement the current driving action of the vehicle . In one or more arrangements the processor and or the autonomous driving module can be operable to control the one or more actuators which can control one or more of the vehicle systems or portions thereof to implement the current driving action.

It should be noted that in one or more arrangements a vehicle occupant e.g. a driver and or other passenger can be prompted to provide permission to implement the future driving action. The vehicle occupant can be prompted in any suitable manner. For instance a prompt can be presented on a display within the vehicle . Alternatively or in addition the prompt can be audibly output to the driver or other passenger over one or more audial channels. Other forms of prompting can be used as an alternative or in addition to the above described forms of prompting. Responsive to receiving an input corresponding to a vehicle occupant s approval to implement the future driving action the vehicle can be caused to implement the future driving action.

It will be appreciated that arrangements described herein can provide numerous benefits including one or more of the benefits mentioned herein. For example arrangements described herein can improve the performance of an autonomous vehicle when operating in view obstructed environments. Arrangements described herein can provide a degree of comfort and confidence to vehicle occupants by informing them that the vehicle is aware of the presence of objects that may not be visible to one or more of the vehicle occupants. Arrangements described herein can also provide a degree of comfort and confidence to vehicle occupants and or improve vehicle safety by modifying a current driving action of the autonomous vehicle. Further arrangements described herein can also improve the safe operation of the vehicle by modifying a current driving action of the autonomous vehicle when information critical areas are located relative to future driving actions are located outside of the determined occupant viewable area.

The flowcharts and block diagrams in the figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments. In this regard each block in the flowcharts or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved.

The systems components and or processes described above can be realized in hardware or a combination of hardware and software and can be realized in a centralized fashion in one processing system or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected processing systems. Any kind of processing system or other apparatus adapted for carrying out the methods described herein is suited. A typical combination of hardware and software can be a processing system with computer usable program code that when being loaded and executed controls the processing system such that it carries out the methods described herein. The systems components and or processes also can be embedded in a computer readable storage such as a computer program product or other data programs storage device readable by a machine tangibly embodying a program of instructions executable by the machine to perform methods and processes described herein. These elements also can be embedded in an application product which comprises all the features enabling the implementation of the methods described herein and which when loaded in a processing system is able to carry out these methods.

Furthermore arrangements described herein may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable media having computer readable program code embodied e.g. stored thereon. Any combination of one or more computer readable media may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. The phrase computer readable storage medium means a non transitory storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk drive HDD a solid state drive SSD a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM a digital versatile disc DVD an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing. Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present arrangements may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

The terms a and an as used herein are defined as one or more than one. The term plurality as used herein is defined as two or more than two. The term another as used herein is defined as at least a second or more. The terms including and or having as used herein are defined as comprising i.e. open language . The phrase at least one of . . . and . . . as used herein refers to and encompasses any and all possible combinations of one or more of the associated listed items. As an example the phrase at least one of A B and C includes A only B only C only or any combination thereof e.g. AB AC BC or ABC .

Aspects herein can be embodied in other forms without departing from the spirit or essential attributes thereof. Accordingly reference should be made to the following claims rather than to the foregoing specification as indicating the scope of the invention.

