---

title: Telecommunication service employing an electronic information repository storing social network user information, developer information, and mobile network operator information
abstract: A telecommunication system that carries out telecommunication functions between multiple parties as initiated by the user interaction with a social network application, while maintaining privacy of the device identifiers (phone numbers or static IP addresses assigned to devices) of the participating parties.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09578480&OS=09578480&RS=09578480
owner: Telesocial, Inc.
number: 09578480
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150818
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 14 094 526 filed on Dec. 2 2013 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 884 804 filed on Sep. 17 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 599 857 which claims benefits from U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 243 562 filed Sep. 18 2009 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 358 690 filed Jun. 25 2010 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

This invention relates broadly to social network applications that are connected to online social networks. More particularly this invention relates to providing advanced telecommunication services to users of such social network applications.

An online social network service is a web based service that provides a means for users to interact over the Internet in order to build social networks and provide social interactions between such users. Online social networking services allow users to share ideas activities events and interests within their individual networks. Popular online social network services in North America include Facebook Bebo Twitter MySpace and LinkedIn. Other online social network services are popular for other geographic regions.

Some of the online social network services provide a framework that allows independent software developers as well as developers of the service itself to develop software logic referred to herein as social network applications that is connected to the given service such that the application can access user profile data maintained by the service. The social network applications typically provide a means for users to interact over the Internet in order to carry out desired functionality. For example Facebook employs a framework utilized by a large number of social network applications including games such as FarmVille by Zynga Texas HoldEm Poker by Zynga Caf World by Zynga PetVille by Zynga Mafia Wars by Zynga and Treasure Island by Zynga media content sharing such as Mobile by Facebook dating services such as Zoosk by Zoosk Inc. and others. The frameworks provide a mechanism for authenticating a particular user. The frameworks also provide a mechanism that allows individual users to authorize a particular social network application. Once a user is authenticated and the particular application authorized by the user the application can access profile data of the user. Typically a permissions scheme is implemented to provide a mechanism for granting access to certain types of user profile data. For example Facebook employs a permissions scheme with a default state whereby the authorized application can access all of the public data in the user s profile including name profile picture gender and friend list. Access to certain types of private data is managed by extended permissions. For example if an application seeks to incorporate a user s photos the application you would request the userphotos extended permission. A long list of extended permission types are described at http developers.facebook.com docs authentication permissions herein incorporated by reference in its entirety. During the authorization process the user is presented with a UI in which the user can authorize your application to access that specific part of her profile.

One of the problems that challenge user of online social networks as well as social network applications is the inherent inability of the current systems to provide for voice communication amongst users unless the users phone numbers are known.

For example the SkypeMe application has been developed that allows a SkypeMe Facebook user to add specific Facebook friends to a list of SkypeMe Facebook users and provides for voice and chat services to the list of SkypeMe Facebook users on the Skype network. The services provided by the SkypeMe application are limited in nature as the voice calls and chat requires Skype enabled end point devices. Moreover the SkypeMe services associates a Skype user ID or online identifier with a particular Facebook user ID. The Skype user ID identifies the Skype user and does not correspond to any particular end point device. Instead the Skype user ID is used in conjunction with Skype software executing on any Skype enabled end point device to dynamically login to the Skype network to establish a connection between the Skype enabled end point device and the Skype network for communication to the Skype user. Finally from the point of view of the SkypeMe Facebook user the SkypeMe service is limited to specific friends i.e. only those in the users list of SkypeMe Facebook users .

In another example social network applications have been developed that include Call Me functionality that interface to the Google Voice platform. The Call Me functionality includes a call widget associated with a particular user. The call widget is made accessible to other users executing respective social network application. The other users can click the call widget and enter their respective phone number. The social network application communicates a message POST voice call connect to the Google Voice platform that specifies the phone numbers for the parties of the call. The phone number for the calling party is the phone number entered by the user via interaction with the call widget. The phone number for the called party is the phone number of the particular user associated with the call widget. Importantly the Call Me functionality of the social network application and the Google Voice platform requires that the parties expose their phone numbers for use by the social network applications. The core issue is that a user s phone number is private in nature and there are many instances where a user would like to maintain the privacy of his or her phone number. Such instances are commonplace in social network applications such as games and dating application where users have little personal knowledge of the other online users. Moreover it can be cumbersome for the calling party to enter his or her phone number and user input errors can cause failures in properly setting up the call.

Similar problems exist for SMS messaging between users of online social networks and social network applications associated therewith social network users.

Thus there remains a need for means of voice SMS as well as other forms of communication amongst users of online social networks and social network applications associated therewith where a user can maintain the privacy of his or her phone number with respect to the social network application that is used to trigger the communication all as well as to the other parties of the communication.

In accord with one embodiment of the invention a telecommunication service is provided that interfaces to social network applications to provide for mobile based telecommunication services e.g. mobile voice calls SMS messaging and other forms of communication amongst users of online social networks and social network applications wherein the parties of the telecommunication services are identified to the telecommunication service by their respective user name screen name email address or other handle. Such handles are widely or publically distributed and thus more commonly used in online social networks and more importantly more anonymous to the identity of the individual user as compared to their telephone number.

In accord with an embodiment of the invention the telecommunication service includes an information repository storing in electronic form social network user information including first data corresponding to a respective social network user. The first data includes a user identifier and at least one device identifier for the respective social network user. In the preferred embodiment social network users interact with the service to register an association to a particular device identifier e.g. mobile phone number and store the registered device identifier as part of the first data maintained by the information repository. The registration process preferably involves verification of possession of the device identified by given device identifier by a communication loop between the telecommunication service and the given device.

The service also includes messaging means for receiving an electronic request issued in conjunction with user execution of a given social network application. The electronic request is used to initiate a telecommunication function e.g. voice call involving a plurality of social network users identified by respective user identifiers included as part of the electronic request. Importantly the electronic request omits any device identifiers for the plurality of social network users identified by respective user identifiers included as part of the electronic request. The service further includes database access means for retrieving from the information repository at least one device identifier corresponding to a respective user identifier included as part of the electronic request and means for initiating the telecommunication function corresponding to the electronic request. The telecommunication function includes communication to at least one device for a respective social networking user wherein the at least one device is identified by the corresponding device identifier as retrieved from the information repository.

In this manner the service carries out the requested telecommunication function while maintaining the privacy of the device identifiers phone numbers or static IP addresses assigned to devices with respect to the parties as well as to the social network application that was used to initiate the function. This affords greater protection against unwanted distribution of the private phone numbers of the parties.

The information repository can be adapted to maintain useful information pertinent to both the application developers and the operator s servicing the calls initiated by the service as control access to such information so as to maintain privacy of the stored information.

Additional objects and advantages of the invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon reference to the detailed description taken in conjunction with the provided figures.

As used herein a key is information preferably a sequence of alphanumeric characters or hex string of fixed length that is assigned to an entity to authenticate data related to the entity.

As used herein a domain key is a key that is assigned to a given social network service to authenticate data related to the given social network service.

As used herein an application key is a key that is assigned to a given social network application to authenticate data related to the given social network application.

In accordance with the present invention a telecommunication service is provided that includes an information repository storing in electronic form social network user information including first data corresponding to a respective social network user. The first data comprises a user identifier and at least one device identifier for the respective social network user. In the preferred embodiment social network users interact with the service to register an association to a particular device identifier e.g. mobile phone number and store the registered device identifier as part of the first data maintained by the information repository. The registration process preferably involves verification of possession of the device identified by given device identifier by a communication loop between the telecommunication service and the given device.

The service also includes messaging means for receiving an electronic request issued in conjunction with user execution of a given social network application. The electronic request is used to initiate a telecommunication function e.g. voice call involving a plurality of social network users identified by respective user identifiers included as part of the electronic request. Importantly the electronic request omits any device identifiers for the plurality of social network users identified by respective user identifiers included as part of the electronic request. The service further includes database access means for retrieving from the information repository at least one device identifier corresponding to a respective user identifier included as part of the electronic request and means for initiating the telecommunication function corresponding to the electronic request. The telecommunication function includes communication to at least one device for a respective social networking user wherein the at least one device is identified by the corresponding device identifier as retrieved from the information repository.

In this manner the service carries out the requested telecommunication function while maintaining the privacy of the device identifiers phone numbers or static IP addresses assigned to devices with respect to the parties as well as to the social network application that was used to initiate the function. By maintaining such privacy the device identifiers phone numbers are hidden from i.e. not presented to the parties as well as to the social network application that was used to initiate the function. This affords greater protection against unwanted distribution of the private phone numbers of the parties.

The information repository can be adapted to maintain useful information pertinent to both the application developers and the operator s servicing the calls initiated by the service as control access to such information so as to maintain privacy of the stored information.

In a first embodiment of the present invention the social network applications e.g. App Logic A A B B and the service cooperate to initiate and service a voice call between users as provided in the flow chart of FIGS. A through A. The operations begin in block where a user user A operates user device A and invokes a social network application referred to as App Logic 1 and labeled A via the Internet. In response thereto the social network application A connects to the online social network service I A through framework A to authenticate the user A e.g. a logon process for the service for example using the user name billyway and password XXXX assigned to user A. The framework A also provides for authorization that controls access by the social network application A to user A profile data if such authorization has not yet been provided .

In block once user A is authenticated and the application authorized the social network application A and the framework A provide a mechanism for example a token that allows the social network application A to access user A profile data via the framework A.

Similar operations are carried out by another user user B tomjones facebook.com to invoke and execute the social network application referred to as App Logic 1 and labeled A via the Internet.

In block during execution of the social network application A the application A presents user A with a link or widget or other user interface element that is adapted to initiate a voice call to user B upon user interaction with the element. User A then interacts with the element for example by clicking on the link to initiate a voice call to user B and the application A is notified of the request for example by an HTTP request . User A is thus designated the calling party and user B is designated the called party throughout. It is contemplated that the application drive initiation of voice calls can be part of many different application scenarios. For example during a game application a user can encounter an avatar for one or more other active users. In this scenario the game application can present a link or widget or other user interface element that is adapted to initiate a voice call between the active users i.e. between user A and user B . In other example during a media sharing application a user can share media with one or more other active users. In this scenario the media sharing application can present a link or widget or other user interface element that is adapted to initiate a voice call between the active users i.e. between user A and user B . In yet another example during a dating application a user can view a profile of other users of the application. In this scenario the dating application can present a link or widget or other user interface element that is adapted to initiate a voice call between users i.e. between user A and user B .

In response to the request initiated in block the application A generates and sends a message to messaging interface of the service over a communication link therebetween block . In the preferred embodiment the message is carried over an IP packet based communication network linking the application A and the calling service including the Internet as shown. The message preferably conforms to the SOAP XML protocol to allow for efficient exchange of the information within the message. Alternatively the message can conform to a predetermined RESTful architecture. This message includes the following 

In block the messaging interface of the service receives the message communicated from application A in block and controls the logic block to perform a lookup of the information repository in block .

As shown in the information repository stores information in electronic form the information pertaining to social network users of the service social network application developers and the social network applications that interface to the service and one or more MNOs that provide resources for connecting calls to the social network users of the service . The information repository further stores electronic information pertaining to the calls carried out by operation of the service . Access to information repository is controlled according to each of the three user types type 1 social network users of the service type 2 developer users associated with social network application developers that develop and or maintain social network applications that interface to the service and type 3 MNO users that are associated with MNOs that provide resources for connecting calls to social network users of the service .

For the type 1 social network users a given social network user can access the information stored in the information repository for the given social network user examples of such information is outlined in column A of . Access to the information stored in the information repository for the given social network user is blocked for all other social network users as well as all type 2 developer users and all type 3 MNO users.

For the type 2 developer users a given developer user can access the information stored in the information repository that pertains to applications developed and or maintained by the application developer associated therewith examples of such information is outlined in column B of . Access to the information stored in the information repository that pertains to such applications is blocked for developer users associated with other application developers for all type 1 social network users and for all type 3 MNO users.

For the type 3 MNO users a given MNO user can access the information stored in the information repository that pertains to the MNO associated therewith examples of such information is outlined in column C of . Access to the information stored in the information repository that pertains to the given MNO is blocked for MNO users associated with other MNOs for all type 1 social network users and for all type 2 developer users.

In the preferred embodiment the information repository is realized by an SQL database system. A type 1 user name is defined for each social network user of the service a type 2 user group and name is defined for each application developer and associated developer user of the service and a type 3 user group and name is defined for each MNO and associated MNO user group of the service .

The social network user information A is realized by a set of tables and views associated with a particular social network user in the SQL database system. Permissions associated with such tables and views are defined that allow for selection and reading of data from such tables and views by the particular social network user while disallowing the selection and reading of data from such tables and views by all other type 1 social network users by any type 2 developer user and by any type 3 MNO user.

The developer information B is realized by a set of tables and views associated with application developed and or maintained by a particular application developer in the SQL database system. Permissions associated with such tables and views are defined that allow for selection and reading of data from such tables and views by all type 2 developer users that belong to the group associated with the particular application developer while disallowing the selection and reading of data from such tables and views by all type 2 developer user that belongs to groups associated with other application developers by any type 1 social network user and by any type 3 MNO user.

The MNO information C is realized by a set of tables and views associated with a particular MNO in the SQL database system. Permissions associated with such tables and views are defined that allow for selection and reading of data from such tables and views by all type 3 MNO users that belong to the group associated with the particular MNO while disallowing the selection and reading of data from such tables and views by all type 3 MNO users that belong to groups associated with other MNOs by any type 1 social network user and by any type 2 developer user.

The access logic which can be realized by an HTTP server or application server provides for controlled access to SQL database system by social network users developer users and MNO users via data exchange over the Internet. Access is controlled utilizing unique access keys that are assigned to the respective social network users developer users and MNO users of the service . In the preferred embodiment the access key for a given social network user is a user name and password associated with the given social network user while the access key for each given developer user and MNO user is secret key assigned thereto. Alternatively the access key for a given social network user can be tied into the authentication mechanism e.g. an authentication token for the social network to which the user belongs. The access logic maps a request issued by a particular social network user as identified by the corresponding access key assigned to the particular social network user into one or more appropriate SQL statements by the particular social network user queries the SQL database with such SQL statement s and returns the pertinent information retrieved from the SQL database system to the requesting social networking user. Similarly the access logic maps a request issued by a particular developer user as identified by the corresponding access key assigned to the particular developer user into one or more appropriate SQL statements by the particular developer user queries the SQL database with such SQL statement s and returns the pertinent information retrieved from the SQL database system to the requesting developer user. Moreover the access logic maps a request issued by a particular MNO user as identified by the corresponding access key assigned to the particular MNO user into one or more appropriate SQL statements by the particular MNO user queries the SQL database with such SQL statement s and returns the pertinent information retrieved from the SQL database system to the requesting MNO user. In this manner access control for the three parts A B C is provided by the permissions defined for the SQL database. In alternate embodiments separate SQL database systems can be used for each logical partition A B C of the information repository .

In block logic block determines whether the call should be blocked. For example the calling rules or blacklist info of the called party as retrieved from the information repository can dictate that the call should be blocked or not . In yet another example the calling rules of the calling party as retrieved from the information repository can dictate that the call should be blocked or not . In the event that logic block determines that the call should be blocked the processing continues to block . Otherwise the processing continues to block .

Blocks and involves the control of the softswitch that is part of the service . The softswitch includes switching logic that is controlled by a calling agent. The switching logic includes resources that provide for bridging of connections that carry the bearer traffic for the legs of the call. The switching logic of the softswitch can also include media gateway functionality such as media conversion for different transmission and coding protocols. The calling agent of the softswitch under control of logic block performs a provisioning loop block and that initiates call set up and signaling to the gateway function e.g. A or B of the MNO for each leg of the call in order to set up a connection that carries the bearer traffic for each leg of the call. The calling agent can provide for translation of call setup and signaling messages e.g. from SIP to H.323 and vice versa or between other signaling protocols and thus bridge calls using incompatible protocols. The calling agent can also employ an E.164 ENUM query to translate the E.164 number of the calling party and or called party as provided by the lookup to information repository to a corresponding SIP address or URL for call setup and signaling purposes if need be.

In the preferred embodiment the softswitch operates in a proxy mode in which both the call setup and signaling messages as well as the bearer traffic for each leg of the call flow through the softswitch . This configuration establishes connections between users while keeping their phone numbers private. In this proxy mode the softswitch can exercise full control over the call and disconnect calls in progress if necessary. The call set up and signaling messages communicated between the calling agent of the softswitch and the call setup functions A B of the respective MNO networks are carried out of band and can be realized by IP signaling such as SIP MGCP or Megaco signaling SS7 signaling or other suitable signaling mechanisms. The bearer traffic communicated between the softswitch and the MNO networks for the legs of the call is preferably carried by IP trunks or other suitable network links labeled A and B in .

In the exemplary embodiment in block the calling agent of the softswitch cooperates with the call setup function A or B of the MNO network for the calling party preferably identified by the MNO ID of the calling party as retrieved from the information repository to set up a connection i.e. communication session that carries bearer traffic for the leg of the call to the mobile device A or B of the calling party. At the MNO side the call setup function A or B of the respective MNO network interfaces to a Radio Network Controller RNC A or B to carry out signaling functions with the calling party mobile device. If the call is accepted on the calling party mobile device the call setup function A or B of the respective MNO network interfaces to the corresponding gateway function A or B to allocate resources to provide bearer traffic to and from the calling party mobile device via the Base Station A or B and RNC A or B coupled to the calling party mobile device over the connection to the softswitch . Typically the respective gateway function A and B provides media mapping and or transcoding functions between potentially dissimilar networks.

In this manner the resources of the MNO network of the calling party provides for bi directional exchange of bearer traffic between the calling party mobile device and the softswitch . In 3G CDMA architectures the gateway function A or B of the MNO network is carried out by the Media Gateway MGW and the gateway control function A B is carried out by the MSC Server. In IMS architectures the gateway function A or B of the MNO network is carried out by the IMS Media Gateway IMS MGW and the gateway control function A B is carried out by call session control functions e.g. I CSCF S CSCF and P SCSF in conjunction with the Media Gateway Control Function MGCF . IN LTE SAE architectures the RNC and gateway functions A A or B B of the MNO network is carried out by the Gateway GW and the gateway control function A B is carried out by the mobility management entity MME . Similar functional elements are used in other architectures.

In block the calling agent of the softswitch cooperates with the call setup function A or B of the MNO network for the called party preferably identified by the MNO ID of the called party as retrieved from the information repository database to set up a connection i.e. communication session that carries bearer traffic for the leg of the call to the mobile device A or B of the called party. At the MNO side the call setup function A or B of the respective MNO network interfaces to a RNC A or B to carry out signaling functions with the called party mobile device. If the call is accepted on the called party mobile device the call setup function A or B of the respective MNO network interfaces to the corresponding gateway function A or B to allocate resources to provide bearer traffic to and from the called party mobile device via the Base Station A or B and RNC A or B coupled to the calling party mobile device over the connection to the softswitch . Typically the respective gateway function A and B provides media mapping and or transcoding functions between potentially dissimilar networks. In this manner the resources of the MNO network for the called party provides for bi directional exchange of bearer traffic between the called party mobile device and the softswitch .

As shown in detail in the calling party provisioning loop of block involves the exchange of messages between the calling agent of the softswitch and the call setup function A or B of the respective MNO network for the calling party mobile device. Communication of such messages can be achieved by means of common protocols such Session Initiation Protocol SIP as shown. Other signaling protocols such as MGCP or Megaco and SS7 signaling can also be used. These messages include a provisioning request message e.g. SIP request communicated from the softswitch to the call setup function A or B that carries the mobile device phone number of the calling party and possibly call profile data. The call profile data can provide information related to the call that can be used for authorization and or accounting purposes by the respective MNO. The call setup function A or B of the MNO network utilizes the mobile device phone number and the call profile data to selectively authorize the call. The call profile data can be used for accounting purposes by the MNO as needed. The call setup function A or B of the MNO network returns a response e.g. SIP response to the calling agent of the softswitch that carries an indication of connection authorization or rejection connection parameters when authorized and possibly other information such as rate information for the call.

As shown in detail in the called party provisioning loop of block involves the exchange of messages between the calling agent of the softswitch and the call setup function A or B of the respective MNO network of the called party mobile device. Communication of such messages can be achieved by means of common protocols such Session Initiation Protocol SIP as shown. Other signaling protocols such as MGCP or Megaco and SS7 signaling can also be used. These messages include a provisioning request message e.g. SIP request communicated from the softswitch to the call setup function A or B that carries the mobile device phone number of the called party and possibly call profile data. The call profile data can provide information related to the call that can be used for authorization and or accounting purposes by the respective MNO. The call setup function A or B of the MNO utilizes the mobile device phone number and the call profile data to selectively authorize the call. The call profile data can be used for accounting purposes by the MNO as needed. The call setup function A or B of the MNO network returns a response e.g. SIP response to the calling agent of the softswitch that carries an indication of connection authorization or rejection connection parameters when authorized and possibly other information such as rate information for the call.

In the exemplary embodiment shown in the call profile data communicated to the call setup function of the MNO network in the calling party provisioning loop of block includes data identifying the social network application that initiated the call request message to the service block as well as the geographic location of the called party mobile device. In this example the calling party user has a rate plan associated with calls initiated from a particular social network application or group of social network applications . For example the rate plan can provide for tiers of rates for minutes per billing period e.g. 6 for the first 100 minutes and 0.20 minute thereafter for calls initiated from a particular social network application or group of social network applications . The rate plan can also be limited to calls to endpoints located in limited geographical regions for example to mobile devices located only in the United States National Calling only . In this case the call setup function A or B of the MNO network cooperates with the Home Subscriber Server HSS or other similar logic of the MNO network to identify the pertinent calling party rate plan corresponding to the social network application as identified by the data supplied thereto and utilizes the geographic location of the called party mobile device to authorize the call in the event that the called party mobile device is within the limited geographical area of the calling party rate plan or reject the call in the event that the called party mobile device is outside the limited geographical area of the calling party rate plan . Moreover the pertinent calling party rate plan corresponding to the request is used for accounting purposes for billing the call. In alternative embodiment the call profile data communicated to the call setup function of the MNO network in the calling party provisioning loop of block can include the mobile phone number of the called party mobile device for use in authorizing the call and billing. The MNO network can be adapted to hide the mobile phone number of called party mobile device as part of the information communicated to the calling party mobile device during call setup as well as on the billing statements of the calling party. The call setup function A or B of the MNO network returns a response e.g. SIP response to the service softswitch that carries an indication of connection authorization or rejection connection parameters when authorized and possibly other information such as rate information for the call.

Similarly in the exemplary embodiment shown in the call profile data communicated to the call setup function of the MNO network in the called party provisioning loop of block includes data identifying the social network application that initiated the call request message to the service block as well as the geographic location of the calling party mobile device. In this example the called party user has a rate plan associated with calls initiated from a particular social network application or group of social network applications . For example the rate plan can provide for tiers of rates for minutes per billing period for calls initiated from a particular social network application or group of social network applications . The rate plan can also be limited to calls to endpoints located in limited geographical regions. In this case the call setup function A or B of the MNO network cooperates with the HSS or other similar logic of the MNO network to identify the pertinent called party rate plan corresponding to the social network application as identified by the data supplied thereto and utilizes the geographic location of the calling party mobile device to authorize the call in the event that the calling party mobile device is within the limited geographical area of the called party rate plan or reject the call in the event that the calling party mobile device is outside the limited geographical area of the called party rate plan . Moreover the pertinent called party rate plan corresponding to the request is used for accounting purposes for billing the call. In alternative embodiment the call profile data communicated to the call setup function of the MNO network in the called party provisioning loop of block can include the mobile phone number of the called party mobile device for use in authorizing the call and billing. The MNO network can be adapted to hide the mobile phone number of calling party mobile device as part of the information communicated to the called party mobile device during call setup as well as on the billing statements of the called party. The call setup function A or B of the MNO network returns a response e.g. SIP response to the service softswitch that carries an indication of connection authorization or rejection connection parameters when authorized and possibly other information such as rate information for the call.

In block logic evaluates the call connection status provided by the calling agent of softswitch as a result of blocks and to determine whether a connection has been established to both the calling party user device and the called party user device. If so the operations continue to blocks to . Otherwise the operation branches to blocks to .

In block softswitch is controlled to bridge the connections to the calling party mobile device and the called party mobile device. Such bridging provides an end to end connection where the bearer traffic for each leg of the call flows through the softswitch . This configuration establishes connections between users while keeping their phone numbers private. In this mode the softswitch can exercise full control over the call and disconnect calls in progress if necessary.

In block logic initiates call logging for the call. In the preferred embodiment such call logging operations stores a call record D for the call in the information repository . The call record D can include the start time elapsed time social network user id and domain for the called party social network user id and domain for the calling party the phone numbers or static IP addresses for the user mobile device that terminates each call leg and the AK or application ID for the social network application that requested the call. Other information can be included such as phone number charged for the call a sequence number identifying the record additional digits on the called number used to route or charge the call the result of the call whether it was answered busy etc the route for each leg of the call and any fault condition encountered.

In optional block logic control messaging interface to return a call success message to the requesting application i.e. App Logic 1 .

In optional block the requesting application i.e. App Logic 1 receives the call success message and performs predetermined processes based thereon. For example it is contemplated that the application can update the user display to provide an indication of call success.

In optional block the softswitch is controlled to bridge the connection from the calling party mobile device to the resources of the voicemail system in order to allow the calling party to leave a voicemail message for access by the called party. In some circumstances for example where the called party answers and the calling party does not answer softswitch can be controlled to bridge the connection from the called party mobile device to the resources of the voicemail system in order to allow the called party to leave a voicemail message for access by the calling party.

In optional block logic control messaging interface to return a call failure message to the requesting application i.e. App Logic 1 .

In optional block the requesting application i.e. App Logic 1 receives the call failure message and performs predetermined processes based thereon. For example it is contemplated that the application can update the user display to provide an indication of call failure.

In a second embodiment of the present invention the social network applications e.g. App Logic A A B B and the service cooperate to initiate and service a voice call between users as provided in the flow chart of FIGS. B through B. The operations begin in block where a user user A operates user device A and invokes a social network application referred to as App Logic 1 and labeled A via the Internet. In response thereto the social network application A connects to the online social network service I A through framework A to authenticate the user A e.g. a logon process for the service for example using the user name billyway and password XXXX assigned to user A. The framework A also provides for authorization that controls access by the social network application A to user A profile data if such authorization has not yet been provided .

In block once user A is authenticated and the application authorized the social network application A and the framework A provide a mechanism for example a token that allows the social network application A to access user A profile data via the framework A.

In block user A interacts with the social network application A to customize a user profile for the application. This involves defining a screen alias and possibly an image or avatar for user A that is communicated to other users during execution of the application. For example during gaming applications the screen alias and image or avatar can be displayed to identify the user A to other users of the game and thus hide the social network user ID for user A from other users of the game.

Similar operations are carried out by another user user B tomjones facebook.com to invoke and execute the social network application referred to as App Logic 1 and labeled A via the Internet.

In block during execution of the social network application A the application A presents user A with a link or widget or other user interface element that is adapted to initiate a voice call to user B upon user interaction with the element. User B can be identified to user A by a screen alias associated thereto as described above and thus hide the social network user ID for user B from user A. User A then interacts with the element for example by clicking on the link to initiate a voice call to user B and the application A is notified of the request for example by an HTTP request . User A is thus designated the calling party and user B is designated the called party throughout. It is contemplated that the application drive initiation of voice calls can be part of many different application scenarios. For example during a game application a user can encounter an avatar for one or more other active users. In this scenario the game application can present a link or widget or other user interface element that is adapted to initiate a voice call between the active users i.e. between user A and user B . In other example during a media sharing application a user can share media with one or more other active users. In this scenario the media sharing application can present a link or widget or other user interface element that is adapted to initiate a voice call between the active users i.e. between user A and user B . In yet another example during a dating application a user can view a profile of other users of the application. In this scenario the dating application can present a link or widget or other user interface element that is adapted to initiate a voice call between users i.e. between user A and user B .

In response to the request initiated in block the application A generates a displays a document on the user device A of user B. Preferably the document is based on a template supplied dynamically from the Service . The document presents to user B a dialog box that prompts for a response from user B. In the preferred embodiment the dialog box provides a notification message together with a prompt for three possible responses as follows 

In block the application A checks whether the response selected by user B is do not permit call and thus provides an indication that user B does not want to permit the call. If so the call process continues to block to communicate the call failure to the requesting user A. Otherwise the operations continue to block .

In block the application A generates and sends a message to messaging interface of the service over a communication link therebetween block . In the preferred embodiment the message is carried over an IP packet based communication network linking the application A and the calling service including the Internet as shown. The message preferably conforms to the SOAP XML protocol to allow for efficient exchange of the information within the message. Alternatively the message can conform to a predetermined RESTful architecture. This message includes the following 

In block the messaging interface of the service receives the message communicated from application A in block .

In block the logic block evaluates the request type data carried in the received message to determine if the request is a voicemail request. If so the operations continue to block . Otherwise the operations continue to block .

In block the logic block evaluates the request type data carried in the received message to determine if the request is a voicecall request. If so the operations continue to block . Otherwise an unexpected error is encountered and the operations continue to block to communicate the error to the requesting user A and possibly to user B .

In block logic block performs a lookup of the information repository . As shown in the information repository stores information in electronic form the information pertaining to social network users of the service social network application developers and the social network applications that interface to the service and one or more MNOs that provide resources for connecting calls to the social network users of the service . The information repository further stores electronic information pertaining to the calls carried out by operation of the service . Access to information repository is controlled according to each of the three user types as described above type 1 social network users of the service type 2 developer users associated with social network application developers that develop and or maintain social network applications that interface to the service and type 3 MNO users that are associated with MNOs that provide resources for connecting calls to social network users of the service . In the preferred embodiment the information repository is realized by an SQL database system as described above. In block the query of the information repository retrieves the following 

In block logic block determines whether the call should be blocked. For example the calling rules or blacklist info of the called party as retrieved from the information repository can dictate that the call should be blocked or not . In yet another example the calling rules of the calling party as retrieved from the information repository can dictate that the call should be blocked or not . In the event that logic block determines that the call should be blocked the processing continues to block . Otherwise the processing continues to block .

Blocks and involve the control of the softswitch that is part of the service . The softswitch includes switching logic that is controlled by a calling agent. The switching logic includes resources that provide for bridging of connections that carry the bearer traffic for the legs of the call as described above.

In the exemplary embodiment in block the calling agent of the softswitch cooperates with the call setup function A or B of the MNO network for the calling party preferably identified by the MNO ID of the calling party as retrieved from the information repository to set up a connection i.e. communication session that carries bearer traffic for the leg of the call to the mobile device A or B of the calling party. At the MNO side the call setup function A or B of the respective MNO network interfaces to a Radio Network Controller RNC A or B to carry out signaling functions with the calling party mobile device. If the call is accepted on the calling party mobile device the call setup function A or B of the respective MNO network interfaces to the corresponding gateway function A or B to allocate resources to provide bearer traffic to and from the calling party mobile device via the Base Station A or B and RNC A or B coupled to the calling party mobile device over the connection to the softswitch . Typically the respective gateway function A and B provides media mapping and or transcoding functions between potentially dissimilar networks.

In this manner the resources of the MNO network of the calling party provides for bi directional exchange of bearer traffic between the calling party mobile device and the softswitch . In 3G CDMA architectures the gateway function A or B of the MNO network is carried out by the Media Gateway MGW and the gateway control function A B is carried out by the MSC Server. In IMS architectures the gateway function A or B of the MNO network is carried out by the IMS Media Gateway IMS MGW and the gateway control function A B is carried out by call session control functions e.g. I CSCF S CSCF and P SCSF in conjunction with the Media Gateway Control Function MGCF . IN LTE SAE architectures the RNC and gateway functions A A or B B of the MNO network is carried out by the Gateway GW and the gateway control function A B is carried out by the mobility management entity MME . Similar functional elements are used in other architectures.

In block the calling agent of the softswitch cooperates with the call setup function A or B of the MNO network for the called party preferably identified by the MNO ID of the called party as retrieved from the information repository database to set up a connection i.e. communication session that carries bearer traffic for the leg of the call to the mobile device A or B of the called party. At the MNO side the call setup function A or B of the respective MNO network interfaces to a RNC A or B to carry out signaling functions with the called party mobile device. If the call is accepted on the called party mobile device the call setup function A or B of the respective MNO network interfaces to the corresponding gateway function A or B to allocate resources to provide bearer traffic to and from the called party mobile device via the Base Station A or B and RNC A or B coupled to the calling party mobile device over the connection to the softswitch . Typically the respective gateway function A and B provides media mapping and or transcoding functions between potentially dissimilar networks. In this manner the resources of the MNO network for the called party provides for bi directional exchange of bearer traffic between the called party mobile device and the softswitch .

In block logic evaluates the call connection status provided by the calling agent of softswitch as a result of blocks and to determine whether a connection has been established to both the calling party user device and the called party user device. If so the operations continue to blocks to . Otherwise the operation branches to blocks to .

In block softswitch is controlled to bridge the connections to the calling party mobile device and the called party mobile device. Such bridging provides an end to end connection where the bearer traffic for each leg of the call flows through the softswitch . This configuration establishes connections between users while keeping their phone numbers private. In this mode the softswitch can exercise full control over the call and disconnect calls in progress if necessary.

In block logic initiates call logging for the call. In the preferred embodiment such call logging operations stores a call record D for the call in the information repository . The call record D can include the start time elapsed time social network user id and domain and alias name if any for the called party social network user id and domain and alias name if any for the calling party the phone numbers for the user mobile device that terminates each call leg and the AK or application ID for the social network application that requested the call. Other information can be included such as phone number charged for the call a sequence number identifying the record additional digits on the called number used to route or charge the call the result of the call whether it was answered busy etc the route for each leg of the call and any fault condition encountered.

In optional block logic control messaging interface to return a call success message to the requesting application i.e. App Logic 1 .

In optional block the requesting application i.e. App Logic 1 receives the call success message and performs predetermined processes based thereon. For example it is contemplated that the application can update the user display for User A and User B to provide an indication of call success.

In optional block softswitch is controlled to bridge the connection from the calling party mobile device to the resources of the voicemail system in order to allow the calling party to leave a voicemail message for access by the called party. In some circumstances for example where the called party answers and the calling party does not answer softswitch can be controlled to bridge the connection from the called party mobile device to the resources of the voicemail system in order to allow the called party to leave a voicemail message for access by the calling party.

In optional block logic control messaging interface to return a call failure message to the requesting application i.e. App Logic 1 .

In optional block the requesting application i.e. App Logic 1 receives the call failure message and performs predetermined processes based thereon. For example it is contemplated that the application can update the user display to provide an indication of call failure.

Referring back to the electronic information stored in the information repository preferably includes the following for a particular social network user as illustrated in column A 

As illustrated in column B of the application developer information stored in the information repository preferably includes the following for each social network application developed by a particular application developer 

As illustrated in column C of the MNO information stored in the information repository preferably includes the following for each MNO that provides resources for connecting calls to users of the service 

As illustrated in row D of the call record information stored in the information repository preferably includes the following for each call serviced by the Service a start time elapsed time social network user id and domain and alias name if any for the called party social network user id and domain and alias name if any for the calling party the phone numbers for the user mobile device that terminates each call leg and the AK or application ID for the social network application that requested the call. Other information can be included such as phone number charged for the call a sequence number identifying the record additional digits on the called number used to route or charge the call the result of the call whether it was answered busy etc the route for each leg of the call and any fault condition encountered.

Users register with the service and interact with the service to specify the mobile phone number and carrier for the user s mobile device. Such information is stored and verified by a messaging loop between the specified device and the service . Once verified the information for the user s mobile device is stored in the social network user record A of the information repository database .

In the exemplary embodiment shown in the user registration process is invoked upon the user initiating a voice call through a social network application as set forth in . In response to the service receiving a request from the social network application step the operations begin in block where Logic queries the information repository to determine if the Calling Party User A is registered with the service for any social network application e.g. is there a social network user record for the calling party that provides a registered mobile device for the given user . If so the operations continue to block to append the social network user record A for the calling party in the information repository to include information specific to the requesting application. Such information can include the AK or application ID for the requesting application if not already associated with the particular user record. Otherwise the operations continue to blocks and .

In block the service initiates interaction with the calling party i.e. User A preferably via the requesting application e.g. A whereby the calling party User A specifies the mobile number and the MNO of a mobile device to be used for calls to the calling party User A .

In block logic queries the information repository to determine if the mobile number specified by the calling party User A in block is already registered by another user of the service. If not the operations continue to blocks to . Otherwise the operations continue to blocks to .

In block logic generates an authentication code for example a random multi digit alphanumeric code for purposes of verifying the mobile device number specified by the calling party User A in block .

In block the service interacts with the calling party User A to present the authentication code generated in block . It can also utilize other communication channels such an email message or social network message to the calling party in order to present the authentication code to the calling party User A . The communication from the service to the calling party also preferably provides an SMS short code assigned to the service for the verification process.

In block the calling party User A utilizes the mobile device specified in block to send the authentication code as part of an SMS message addressed to the short code assigned to the service as provided in block .

In block the service receives the SMS message supplied from the calling party mobile device and addressed to its short code and compares the authentication code supplied therein to the authentication code communicated to the calling party in block . If the authentication codes match the operations continue to blocks to . Otherwise the operations continue to block .

In block logic appends the social network user record A for the calling party User A in the information repository to include information specific to the calling party mobile device as well as information specific to the requesting application. Such information includes the mobile phone number and MNO ID for the calling party mobile device as well as the AK or application ID for the requesting application.

In block the messaging verification loop of the registration process has succeeded and the service interacts with the calling party User A to communicate such success. The service can also utilize other communication channels such an email message or social network message to the calling party in order communicate such success to the calling party User A .

Blocks to address the scenario where the mobile number specified by the calling party User A in block is already registered by another user of the service .

In block logic generates an authentication code for example a random multi digit alphanumeric code for purposes of verifying the mobile device phone number specified by the calling party User A in block .

In block the service interacts with the calling party User A via the requesting application A to present the authentication code generated in block . The service can also utilize other communication channels such an email message or social network message to the calling party in order to present the authentication code to the calling party User A . The communication from the service to the calling party user A also preferably provides an SMS short code assigned to the service for the verification process.

In block the calling party User A utilizes the mobile device specified in block to send the authentication code as part of an SMS message addressed to the short code of the calling service as provided in block .

In block the calling service receives the SMS message supplied from the calling party mobile device and addressed to its short code and compares the authentication code supplied therein to the authentication code communicated to the calling party in block . If the authentication codes match the operations continue to block . Otherwise the operations continue to block .

In logic deletes the mobile phone number from the other matching social network user record A . Such operations automatically reclaim phone numbers that have been ported lost re used or otherwise re assigned to a new individual or organization. In this manner the service provides a self healing mechanism for the social network user records A of the information repository and thus insure accuracy of such user records. The operations then continue to block where logic appends the social network user record A for the calling party User A in the information repository to include information specific to the calling party mobile device as well as information specific to the requesting application as described above and then report registration success to the calling party user A in block .

Block addresses the scenario where the messaging verification loop of the registration process fails. In block the service interacts with the calling party User A to communicate such failure. It can also utilize other communication channels such an email message or social network message to the calling party in order communicate such failure to the calling party User A .

The user registration process of is also be invoked for the called party. In this manner the called party interacts with the calling service to specify the mobile phone number and MNO for the user s mobile device. Such information is stored and verified by a messaging loop between the specified device and the calling service . Once verified the information for the social network user s mobile device is stored in the social network user record A of the information repository . In the preferred embodiment the user registration process for all legs of the call are carried out in parallel.

It is also contemplated that user can register their phone numbers with the service by other means. For example the registration process can be carried out by an Interactive Voice Response system accessible by calling a designated number or by a web portal reachable over the Internet at designated URL. Each of these processes preferably employs a challenge process that involves the communication of an authentication code to the user and the user supplying the authentication code for matching and authentication as part of the registration process. In the preferred embodiment the device to which the registered phone number is to be assigned is used to communicate the authentication code for authentication and authorization of the user as part of the registration process. This human challenge authentication loop preferably involves both the human that possess the particular device as well as the communication medium through which the particular device is registered to ensure accuracy of the registration process.

Developers of social network applications register with the service to request issuance of application keys. Each application key provides authentication of request messages that initiate voice calls from a particular application. Once issued the application key is stored in an application developer record B of the ENUM database .

In the exemplary embodiment shown in the developer registration process begins in block where the application developer requests an application key AK for a particular application and affiliate social network domain. This request can be communicated via email a phone call or by submission of information as part of electronic forms served to the respective developer over the Internet by an HTTP server or the like as part of the access function .

In block the service verifies that the particular application of the request of block is approved for the corresponding affiliate social domain network of the request of block . This can be accomplished by a manual verification process. If not the operations continue to block . Otherwise the operations continue to blocks to .

In block the service reports a denial of the application key to the developer. Such reporting can be communicated via email a phone call or by submission of information as part of electronic forms served to the respective developer over the Internet by an HTTP server and the like as part of the access function .

In block the service issues an application key for the particular application of the request of block and updates the application developer record B of the information repository to include the application key and possibly an application ID for the particular application.

In block the service reports the application key to the developer. Such reporting can be communicated via email a phone call or by submission of information as part of electronic forms served to the respective developer over the Internet by an HTTP server and the like as part of the access function . The application developer utilizes the application key as part of the logic of the particular application that initiates the communication of request messages step to the service . The request messages function to initiate voice calls from the particular application. The application key authenticates such request messages as originating from the particular application.

The access function of the service provides a web portal that allows social network users application developer users and MNO users to access information stored in the information repository . The access function controls access to the information stored in the information repository as described above.

The access function can authenticate users application developers and carriers by any conventional authentication methods such as user names and passwords biometrics a passport or an ID card or others. Multi factor schemes can be employed utilizing more than one of these mechanisms. Once authenticated the access function provides for controlled access to designated information for the authenticated user.

The access function preferably allows a type 1 social network user to review and update user information A of as well as generate and review user specific reports. The user information can include global activation parameters and or application specific activation parameters that selectively activate or deactivate the user registered phone from being used in conjunction with the service . The user information can also include global and or application specific usage parameters e.g. whitelists blacklists alias . The user specific reports can provide for details of calls place by or to the respective social network user as maintained by call record information viewable by the social network user. It can also provide for filters e.g. show calls to a particular user calls in a particular date range calls placed from a particular application and summaries e.g. call minutes for a given time period . As described above in detail the access function does not allow the social network user to access user information for other social network users as well as the application developer information B of and the MNO information C of of the information repository .

The access function preferably allows type 2 application developer users to review and update application developer information B of as well as generate and review developer specific or application specific reports. The developer specific reports can provide for details of calls place by one or more applications of the respective developer as maintained by the call record information viewable by the corresponding application developer. It can also provide for filters e.g. show calls placed from a particular application calls in a particular date range calls placed to from a particular user and summaries e.g. call minutes for a given time period . As described above in detail the access function disallows access to information from other application developers as well as social network user information A of and MNO information C of of the information repository .

The access function also preferably allows type 3 MNO users to review and update MNO information C of as well as generate and review MNO specific reports. The MNO specific reports can provide for details of calls serviced by the MNO as maintained by call record information viewable by the MNO. It can also provide for filters e.g. show calls placed from a particular application calls in a particular date range calls placed to from a particular user and summaries e.g. call minutes for a given time period . As described above in detail the access function disallows access to information from other MNOs as well as social network user information A of and application developer information B of of the information repository .

In AA during execution of the social network application A the application A presents user A with a link or widget or other user interface element that is adapted to initiate a voice call to user B tomjones facebook.com upon user interaction with the element. User A then interacts with the element for example by clicking on the link to initiate a voice call to user B block or .

In AB the application A generates and sends a message to messaging interface of the service over a communication link therebetween block or .

In AC the messaging interface of the service receives the message communicated from application A and controls the logic block to perform a lookup of the information repository block or .

In block AE the logic block determines whether the call should be blocked. For example the calling rules or blacklist info of the called party as retrieved from the information repository can dictate that the call should be blocked or not . In yet another example the calling rules of the calling party as retrieved from the information repository can dictate that the call should be blocked or not . In the event that logic block determines that the call should not be blocked the logic block controls the calling agent of the softswitch to performs a provisioning loop AF AK that carries out call set up and signaling with the gateway control function A of the MNO network for the mobile device A of the calling party user A as well as a provisioning loop AM AR that carries out call set up and signaling with the gateway control function B of the MNO network for the mobile device B of the called party B.

The provisioning loop AF AK sets up connections i.e. communication sessions that carry bearer traffic for the leg of the call to the mobile device A of the calling party.

In AF a provisioning request message e.g. SIP request is communicated from the softswitch to the call setup function A of the MNO network that services the mobile device phone number of the calling party mobile device. The provisioning request message includes the mobile device phone number of the calling party mobile device and possibly call profile data. The call profile data can provide information related to the call that can be used for authorization and or accounting purposes by the respective MNO. The call setup function A of the MNO network utilizes the mobile device phone number and the call profile data to selectively authorize the call. The call profile data can be used for accounting purposes by the MNO as needed.

Once the call is authorized the call setup function A of the MNO network performs mobile network call setup signaling in conjunction with session progress and context activation with the softswitch in AG through AK as is well known.

The connections that carry bearer traffic for the leg of the call to the mobile device A of the calling party are represented graphically in AL.

The provisioning loop AM AR sets up connections i.e. communication sessions that carries bearer traffic for the leg of the call to the mobile device B of the called party. Such connections are represented graphically in AS.

In AM a provisioning request message e.g. SIP request is communicated from the softswitch to the call setup function B of the MNO network that services the mobile device phone number of the called party mobile device. The provisioning request message includes the mobile device phone number of the called party mobile device and possibly call profile data. The call profile data can provide information related to the call that can be used for authorization and or accounting purposes by the respective MNO. The call setup function B of the MNO network utilizes the mobile device phone number and the call profile data to selectively authorize the call. The call profile data can be used for accounting purposes by the MNO as needed.

Once the call is authorized the call setup function B of the MNO network performs mobile network call setup signaling in conjunction with session progress and context activation with the softswitch in AN through AR as is well known.

The connections that carry bearer traffic for the leg of the call to the mobile device B of the called party are represented graphically in AS.

In AT when the connections for both legs of the calls have been established the softswitch is controlled to bridge the connections to the calling party mobile device and the called party mobile. Such bridging provides an end to end connection where the bearer traffic for each leg of the call flows through the softswitch . This configuration establishes connections between users while keeping their phone numbers private. In this mode the softswitch can exercise full control over the call and disconnect calls in progress if necessary.

In AU and AV the logic initiates call logging for the call. In the preferred embodiment such call logging operations stores a call record D for the call in the information repository .

In AW and AX the logic control messaging interface to return a call success message for presentation to the calling party on device A.

In AZ the called party terminates the call by signaling which tears down the connections for the call and bridging function performed by the softswitch in BA through BD. to the requesting application i.e. App Logic 1 .

In BE and BD the logic updates the call records for the call in the information repository for example to store the call duration and possibly other parameters.

In BE and BH the logic control messaging interface to return a call termination message for presentation to the calling party on device A.

In alternate embodiment the operations of the system components as described herein can be modified to perform other operations that provision resources and tears down such resources that carry out a voice call between a calling party mobile device and a called party mobile device as initiated by the user interaction with a social network application.

For example during execution of the social network application the request can be communicated from the user machine to the service by redirection and or scripts.

In another example the functionality of the softswitch can be distributed in nature as shown in . In this configuration multiple softswitches for example 4 shown as A B C and D are provided. Each softswitch A B C or D has one or more interconnection trunks to external gateways switches e.g. gateway functions A and B of . In addition each softswitch A B C or D has one or more interconnection trunks to the other softswitches of the group . The interconnection trunks and can use time division multiplexing TDM internet protocol IP and or asynchronous transfer protocol ATM for communication of bearer traffic therebetween. Control logic is interconnected to the softswitches A B C and D of the group by a communication network . The control logic controls the softswitches A B C and D of the group to service the legs of a particular voice calls. Bridging of the legs can be accomplished within a given softswitch or by multiple softswitches connected over the interconnection trunks .

The softswitches A B C and D of the group can be geographically distributed such that the softswitches A B C and D serves geographic areas which are remote from one another and possibly remote from the physical location of the control logic . Among other things handling a voice call by the distributed softswitches can be desirable in some situations such as when the geographic distribution of the softswitches allows the service operator to minimize long distance fees that can be avoided by serving the call utilizing the distributed softswitches of the group .

In yet another example it is contemplated that the connections and bridging functionality for the voice call can be provisioned by the servicing operator gateway for the calling party and or the called party. Caller ID blocking functionality can be invoked to maintain the private nature of the phone numbers to the parties of the call.

In still another example the service as described herein can be integrated into the services application layer of an MNO network itself in order to provide advanced services to the mobile users serviced by the MNO. In this example Caller ID blocking functionality of the MNO can be invoked to maintain the private nature of the phone numbers to the parties of the call.

Moreover the operations of telecommunication service as described herein can be extended to other advanced communication functions between online social network users. For example the softswitch of the service can be adapted to service voice calls to landlines over the PSTN and or to SIP phones over the Internet multiparty voice conferencing between users real time chat between users H.323 video conferencing between users file sharing between users and media content streaming between users. The service can also provide other communication functions between users such as SMS messaging MMS messaging email messaging etc.

For SMS messaging the input of the originating party generates a text string that is supplied as part of the request message communicated to the service . The request message also includes the user name and domain of the recipient as well as the user name and domain of the originating party. The service performs a lookup of the social network user information A for the recipient user to retrieve the phone number for the mobile device of the recipient user encapsulates the text string supplied in the request as part of an SMS message addressed to the mobile device of the recipient user and forwards the SMS message to the MNO network of the recipient user.

For Callme functionality a registered user of the service referred to herein as the requesting subscriber is presented with a Callme widget associated with another registered user of the service referred to herein as the recipient subscriber during execution of the social network application. By clicking on this Callme widget the social network application triggers the communication of a request message to the service . Alternatively the request message is triggered after presentation of a notification message and response submission from the called party similar to block . The request message includes the user name and domain of the requesting subscriber as well as the user name and domain of the recipient subscriber. The service performs a lookup of the social network user information A for the requesting subscriber to retrieve the phone number or static IP address for the telephony device of the requesting subscriber as well as a lookup of the social network user information A for the recipient subscriber to retrieve the phone number or static IP address for the telephony device of the recipient subscriber. These numbers are then used to set up a telephony call between the telephony devices for the requesting and recipient subscribers as described herein.

Such Callme functionality can also be extended to allow an unregistered user of the service to place a call to a registered user referred to herein as the requesting user of the service during execution of the social network application. In this case the unregistered user is presented with a Callme widget associated with the registered user referred to herein as the recipient subscriber during execution of the social network application. By clicking on this Callme widget the social network application triggers the communication of a request message to the service . This request message includes the user name and domain of the requesting user as well as the user name and domain of the recipient subscriber. The service performs a lookup of the social network user information A for the requesting user. This lookup fails because the requesting user is not registered with the service . The requesting user can then be presented with an interface that provides for registration with the service . After registration is complete i.e. the requesting user has registered and verified an association to a mobile device identifier the operations continue to set up a telephony call between the telephony devices for the requesting and recipient subscribers as described herein. Alternatively in the case where the lookup fails the requesting user can be presented with an interface that allows the requesting user to enter a character string that represents a phone number for a device to call. This character string is supplied as part of a message to the service and the supplied phone number is used to set up a telephony call between the telephony devices for the requesting user and recipient subscriber as described herein.

Other telecommunication functions can be provided. For example the service can be adapted to connect to a plurality of registered devices for a given user. Such connections can be carried out in parallel or in an ordered sequence. The registered devices and control over the sequence of connections can be dictated by user information updated by the user through the access logic .

Advantageously the service as described herein carries out the requested telecommunication function while maintaining the privacy of the device identifiers phone numbers with respect to the parties as well as to the social network application that was used to initiate the function. By maintaining such privacy the device identifiers phone numbers are hidden from i.e. not presented to the parties as well as to the social network application that was used to initiate the function. This affords greater protection against unwanted distribution of the private phone numbers of the parties.

It is also contemplated that static IP addresses can be used as device identifiers for the social network user s telecommunication devices of the present invention. Such static IP addresses can be assigned to the user devices by the network operator. Such as a static IP address is preferably stored in a non volatile memory of the respective device. The static IP address is preferably permanent in nature. The static IP address can be stored in a pluggable memory card e.g. SIM card and loaded into the respective device if desired.

There have been described and illustrated herein several embodiments of a system and method for establishing communication between online social network users. While particular embodiments of the invention have been described it is not intended that the invention be limited thereto as it is intended that the invention be as broad in scope as the art will allow and that the specification be read likewise. Thus while particular communication technologies system architectures message formats and database architectures have been disclosed it will be appreciated that other current and future communication technologies system architectures message formats and database architectures can be used as well to carry out the communication processing of the present invention as described herein. For example it is contemplated that an online social network itself can interface to the calling service to provide advanced telecommunication functions carried out by the service as described herein. In this scenario the online social network can be viewed as an application developer in registering and interface to the service. In another example it is contemplated that the unitary database as described herein and or the access function associated therewith can be partitioned into multiple parts in order to segregate the data for the intended access control. In another example the softswitch can function in a routed mode such that all signaling messages for the call flow through the softswitch. However the bearer traffic does not flow through the softswitch but is exchanged gateway to gateway. In routed mode the softswitch exercises substantial degree of call control and can disconnect calls in progress if necessary. It therefore will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that yet other modifications could be made to the provided invention without deviating from its spirit and scope as claimed.

