---

title: Interactive television systems with digital video recording and adjustable reminders
abstract: An interactive television system is provided in which an interactive television application is used to support network-based or local personal video recorder capabilities. A user may use this application to view lists of program listings. The user may select a program listing of interest. The interactive television application may allow the user to set a reminder for the selected program at the scheduled broadcast time. This application may also allow the user to set a reminder for the selected program at a later time at which the program is not scheduled to be broadcast. The user may be provided with a reminder at this later time. In response, the user may direct the network-based or local personal video recorder to play back the program or may defer the reminder again. The interactive television application may collect information on program usage and popularity to determine how long to retain certain programming.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09369741&OS=09369741&RS=09369741
owner: Rovi Guides, Inc.
number: 09369741
owner_city: San Carlos
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150616
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 14 313 348 filed Jun. 24 2014 currently allowed which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 866 247 filed Apr. 19 2013 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 806 546 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 112 078 filed May 20 2011 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 799 971 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 827 046 filed Jun. 30 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 971 222 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 350 393 filed Jan. 8 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 779 445 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 357 001 filed Jan. 30 2003 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 493 646 all of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entireties.

This invention relates to television systems and more particularly to interactive television systems such as interactive television program guide systems with network based or local personal video recorder capabilities and the ability to use such capabilities to reschedule program reminders.

Interactive television systems may be used to provide interactive television program guides in which screens of interactive television program listings are presented to users. Pay per view and video on demand services web browsing services games home shopping and other interactive features may be provided using interactive television systems.

In typical interactive television systems users have set top boxes or other equipment in their home with which the users interact using remote controls or other user interfaces. In a computer environment users can access interactive television program guide web sites.

Interactive television program guides may be implemented on personal video recorder platforms. A typical personal video recorder has a hard disk drive for storing digital video recordings that may be played back on a user s television. Video recorder functionality may also be provided using equipment at a cable system headend. With this type of network based video recorder a user may direct equipment at the headend to perform video recording and playback functions.

It would be desirable to be able to use the video recording capabilities of an interactive television system to allow a user to reschedule program viewing and program reminders.

It would also be desirable to be able to collect and use information on the desirability of retaining access to certain television programming when managing the storage of network based or local personal video recorder content in an interactive television system.

In accordance with the present invention interactive television systems are provided that support network based or local personal video recorder functions. A user may use an interactive television program guide or other interactive television application to schedule a recording of an upcoming broadcast television program. Broadcast television programming may be recorded on network equipment e.g. a server at a cable system headend or other network location or on local equipment e.g. a local personal video recorder . The user may use the network based or local personal video recorder functions of the system to request that certain recorded programs be played back for the user on the user s equipment.

If desired programming may be recorded automatically by the network or by the local personal video recorder. Individual copies of programs may be stored for each user as real or actual copies or one or more shared copies of programs may be centrally stored and provided to users in the form of virtual copies. Real copies may also be stored on a local personal video recorder or other suitable local equipment.

Each user may be provided with a personal area that reflects that user s collection of recorded or archived programming. In environments in which copies are centrally maintained each user s personal area may include a list of that user s virtual recordings or program copies. In environments in which individual network based or local copies of recorded programs are made for each user each user s personal area may include real recordings or program copies.

A user may use the interactive television application to set reminders for programs of interest. For example the user may set a reminder for a program that is scheduled to be broadcast later in the week. Just before the scheduled broadcast time of the program the user may be presented with a reminder that alerts the user that the desired programming is about to be broadcast.

The network based or local personal video recorder capabilities of the system may be used to make a program available to the user at times other than the scheduled broadcast time for that program. If a program for which a user is interested in setting a reminder is available from the network at time other than the scheduled broadcast time through the use of such capabilities the user may be provided with an opportunity to select a viewing time and a time for receiving an accompanying reminder message that is later than the original broadcast time. For example the user may be provided with on screen options that allow the user to select a reminder time for the desired program even if there is no scheduled broadcast of the program at that time. The user may also be provided with options that if selected direct the system to retain a copy of a program in the user s personal area in the event that the user misses the program.

To use network or local storage efficiently programs that are of less interest or that are particularly time sensitive e.g. nightly news reports may be maintained on the network based or local personal video recorder for less time than programs that are of more interest or are less time sensitive e.g. a popular situation comedy . This allows less desirable programming to be deleted thereby freeing up storage space for other uses.

Further features of the invention its nature and various advantages will be more apparent from the accompanying drawings and the following detailed description of the preferred embodiments.

An illustrative interactive television system in accordance with the present invention is shown in . Content such as television programming and digital music may be provided from programming sources to television distribution facilities such as television distribution facility using communications path . Programming sources may be any suitable sources of television and music programming such as television and music production studios etc.

Television distribution facility may be a cable system headend a satellite television distribution facility a television broadcast facility or any other suitable facility for distributing television and music programming to users. There are typically numerous television distribution facilities in system but only one is shown in to avoid overcomplicating the drawings.

Communications path may be a satellite path a fiber optic path a cable path or any other suitable wired or wireless communications paths or a combination of such paths.

Television distribution facility may be connected to various user equipment devices . Such user equipment may for example be located in the homes of users. User equipment may include user television equipment or user computer equipment .

The user equipment may receive television and music programming and other information from television distribution facility over communications paths such as communications paths and . The user equipment may also transmit signals to television distribution facility over paths and . Paths and may be cables or other wired connections free space connections e.g. for broadcast or other wireless signals satellite links etc.

Data source may include a program listings database that is used to provide the user with television program schedule information such as scheduled broadcast times titles channels ratings information e.g. parental ratings and critic s ratings detailed title descriptions genre or category information e.g. sports news movies etc. information on actors and actresses running times etc. Data source may also be used to provide advertisements e.g. program guide advertisements and advertisements for other interactive television applications real time data such as sports scores stock quotes news weather etc. Although data source is drawn as an individual box in data source and the other system components of may be provided using equipment at one or more locations. Systems components are drawn as single boxes in to avoid over complicating the drawings.

Data source may provide program schedule information and other data to television distribution facility over communications path for distribution to the associated user equipment over paths and . Communications path may be any suitable communications path such as a satellite communications path or other wireless path a fiber optic or other wired communications path a path that supports Internet communications a combination of such paths etc. Data source may provide program schedule information and other data to the user at user equipment over path communications network and path . Path may be a wired path such as a telephone line a cable path a fiber optic path a satellite path a wireless path a combination of such paths or any other suitable path.

User equipment devices such as user television equipment and personal computers may use the program schedule information to display program listings and information on digital music for the user. An interactive television program guide application or other suitable application may be used to display such information on the user s display.

An on line program guide and other interactive television services may be provided using a server connected to communications network such as server . Server may receive program schedule information and other data from data source via communications path communications network and communications path . Paths and may be satellite paths fiber optic paths wired paths etc. Communications network may be any suitable communications network such as the Internet the public switched telephone network a packet based network etc.

User equipment may access on line program guide information and other information from server via communications path . User equipment may also access the on line program guide and other services on server via communications path television distribution facility and communications path . For example a cable modem or other suitable equipment may be used by user equipment to communicate with television distribution facility . Television distribution facility may communicate with communications network over any suitable path such as a wired path a cable path a fiber optic path a satellite path a wireless path a combination of such paths etc.

User equipment such as user television equipment and user computer equipment may access the on line program guide and server using similar arrangements. User television equipment may access the on line program guide and server using communications path or using path television distribution facility and path . User computer equipment may access the on line program guide and server using communications path or using path television distribution facility and path . Paths and may be any suitable paths such as wired paths cable paths fiber optic paths satellite paths wireless paths a combination of such paths etc.

Program guide application functions and the functions of other interactive television applications may be supported using server and other servers connected to communications network such as server . Interactive television applications may also be supported by servers or other suitable equipment at one or more service providers such as service provider . For example a home shopping service may be supported by a service provider such as service provider that has sales representatives order fulfillment facilities account maintenance facilities and other equipment for supporting interactive home shopping features. A home shopping application that is implemented using the user equipment may be used to access the service provider to provide these features to the user. The user equipment may access service provider via television distribution facility and communications path or via communications network and communications path . Communications paths such as paths and may be any suitable paths such as wired paths cable paths fiber optic paths satellite paths wireless paths a combination of such paths etc.

Another example of an interactive television application is a home banking application. A home banking service may be supported using personnel at facilities such as service provider . An interactive home banking application that is implemented using the user equipment may access the home banking service via television distribution facility and communications path or via communications network and communications path .

If desired an interactive television application such as a network based video recorder or a video on demand application may be supported using server server or equipment at service provider . Video on demand content and video recorded using a network based video recorder arrangement may be stored on server or server or at service provider and may be provided to the user equipment when requested by users. An interactive television application may be used to support the functions of a personal video recorder sometimes called a digital video recorder that is implemented using user equipment . Illustrative equipment that may be used to support personal video recorder functions include specialized personal video recorder devices integrated receiver decoders IRDs set top boxes with integrated or external hard drives or personal computers with video recording capabilities.

If desired applications such as the interactive television program guide application a home shopping application a home banking application a video on demand application game applications and other applications e.g. applications related to e mail and chat or other communications functions etc. may be provided as separate applications that are accessed through a navigation shell application i.e. a menu application with menu options corresponding to the applications . The features of such applications may be combined. For example games video on demand services home shopping network based video recorder functions personal video recorder functions navigational functions program guide functions communications functions and other suitable functions may be provided using one application or any other suitable number of applications.

Moreover the interactive television program guide application the home banking application the home shopping application the network based video recorder and personal video recorder applications the video on demand application the gaming applications communications applications and navigational applications are only a few illustrative examples of the types of interactive television applications that may be supported by system . Other suitable applications that may be supported include news services web browsing and other Internet services and interactive wagering services e.g. for wagering on horse races and the like .

The interactive television application or applications that are used in interactive television system may be implemented locally on the user equipment. The applications may also be implemented in a distributed fashion e.g. using a client server architecture in which the user equipment serves at least partly and for at least some of the time as the client and a server such as server at television distribution facility server or other suitable equipment acts as the server. Other distributed architectures may also be used if desired. Moreover some or all of the interactive television system features of system may be provided using operating system software or middleware software. Such operating system software and middleware may be used instead of or in combination with application level software. Regardless of the particular arrangement used to implement interactive television features related to program guides home shopping home banking video on demand Internet communications etc. the software that supports these features may be referred to as an application or applications.

Illustrative user television equipment that is based on a set top box arrangement is shown in . Input output may be connected to communications paths such as paths and . Input output functions may be provided by one or more wires or communications paths but are shown as a single path in to avoid overcomplicating the drawing. Television programming and other information may be received using input output . Commands and requests and other information from the user may also be transmitted over input output .

Set top box may be any suitable analog or digital set top box e.g. a cable set top box . Set top box may contain an analog tuner for tuning to a desired analog television channel. Set top box may also contain digital decoding circuitry for receiving digital television and music channels. Both analog and digital channels may be handled together if desired. Multiple tuners may be provided e.g. to handle simultaneous watch and record functions . Box may be an integrated receiver decoder IRD that handles satellite television. If desired box may have circuitry for handling cable over the air broadcast and satellite content. Box may include a storage device e.g. a digital storage device such as a hard disk drive for providing recording capabilities. Box may also be connected to a recording device such as a video cassette recorder personal video recorder or other device or devices with storage capabilities.

Set top box contains a processor e.g. a microcontroller or microprocessor or the like that is used to execute software applications. Set top box may contain memory such as random access memory for use when executing applications. Nonvolatile memory may also be used e.g. to launch a boot up routine and other instructions . Hard disk storage in box or in recording device may be used to back up data and to otherwise support larger databases and storage requirements than may be supported using random access memory approaches.

Set top box may have infrared IR or other communications circuitry for communicating with a remote control or wireless keyboard. Set top box may also have dedicated buttons and a front panel display. The front panel display may for example be used to display the current channel to which the set top box is tuned.

Set top box may also have communications circuitry such as a cable modem an integrated services digital network ISDN modem a digital subscriber line DSL modem a telephone modem a wireless modem etc. for communications with other equipment. Such communications may involve the Internet or any other suitable communications networks or paths. If desired the components of set top box may be integrated into other user equipment e.g. a television or videocassette recorder .

Recording device may be used to record videos provided by set top box . For example if set top box is tuned to a given television channel the video signal for that television channel may be passed to recording device for recording on a videocassette compact disc digital video disk or internal hard drive or other storage device. Recording device may have communications circuitry such as a cable modem an ISDN modem a DSL modem a telephone modem etc. for communications with other equipment. Such communications may involve the Internet or any other suitable communications networks or paths. The components of recording device may be integrated into other user equipment e.g. a television stereo equipment etc. .

Recording device may be controlled using a remote control or other suitable user interface. If desired video recorder functions such as start stop record etc. and other functions for device may be controlled by set top box . For example set top box may control recording device using infrared commands directed toward the remote control inputs of recording device or set top box may control recording device using other wired or wireless communications paths between box and device .

The output of recording device may be provided to television for display to the user. If desired multiple recording devices or no recording device may be used. If recording device is not present or is not being actively used the video signals from set top box may be provided directly to television . Any suitable television or monitor may be used to display the video. In the equipment of and the other equipment of system the audio associated with various video items is typically distributed with those video items and is generally played back to the user as the videos are played.

Another illustrative arrangement for user television equipment is shown in . In the example of user television equipment includes a recording device such as a digital video recorder e.g. a personal video recorder PVR that uses a hard disk or other storage for recording video or may be a digital video disc recorder compact disc recorder videocassette recorder or other suitable recording device. Equipment of may also include a television . Input output may be connected to communications paths such as paths and . Television programming and other information may be received using input output . Commands and requests and other information from the user may be transmitted over input output .

Recording device may contain at least one analog tuner for tuning to a desired analog television channel. Recording device may also contain digital decoding circuitry for receiving digital television and music channels. If desired recording device may contain circuitry for handling both analog and digital channels. Recording device also contains a processor e.g. multiple tuners may be provided a microcontroller or microprocessor or the like that is used to execute software applications. Recording device may contain memory such as random access memory for use when executing applications. Nonvolatile memory may also be used to store a boot up routine or other instructions. The hard disk and other storage in recording device may be used to support databases e.g. program guide databases or interactive television application databases . The hard disk or other storage in recording device may also be used to record video such as television programs or video on demand content or other content provided to recording device over input output .

Recording device may have IR communications circuitry or other suitable communications circuitry for communicating with a remote control. Recording device may also have dedicated buttons and a front panel display. The front panel display may for example be used to display the current channel to which the recording device is tuned.

Recording device may also have communications circuitry such as a cable modem an ISDN modem a DSL modem a telephone modem a wireless modem etc. for communications with other equipment. Such communications may involve the Internet or other suitable communications networks or paths.

If desired recording device may include a satellite receiver or other equipment that has wireless communications circuitry for receiving satellite signals.

Recording device of or recording device of may record new video while previously recorded video is being played back on television or . This allows users to press a pause button during normal television viewing. When the pause button is pressed the current television program is stored on the hard disk of digital video recorder . When the user presses play the recorded video may be played back. This arrangement allows the user to seamlessly pause and resume television viewing. Recording device and may also be used to allow a user to watch a previously recorded program while simultaneously recording a new program.

The set top box arrangement of and the digital video recorder set top box arrangement of are merely illustrative. Other arrangements may be used if desired. For example user television equipment may be based on a WebTV box a personal computer television PC TV or any other suitable television equipment arrangement. If desired the functions of components such as set top box digital video recorder a WebTV box or PC TV or the like may be integrated into a television or personal computer or other suitable device.

An illustrative remote control for operating user television equipment or suitable user computer equipment is shown in . Remote control may have function keys and other keys such as keypad keys power on off keys pause stop fast forward and reverse keys etc. Volume up and down keys may be used for adjusting the volume of the audio portion of a video. Channel up and down keys may be used to change television channels and to access content on virtual channels. Cursor keys may be used to navigate on screen menus. For example cursor keys may be used to position an on screen cursor indicator or highlight sometimes all generically referred to herein as a highlight or highlight region to indicate interest in a particular option or other item on a screen displayed by the interactive television application.

An OK key sometimes called a select or enter key may be used to select on screen options that the user has highlighted.

Keys may include a record key for initiating recordings. Menu button may be used to direct the interactive television application to display a menu on the user s display screen e.g. on television or or on a suitable monitor or computer display . Info button may be used to direct the interactive television application to display an information display screen. If the user has highlighted a particular program listing for example pressing the info button may direct the interactive television application to provide additional program schedule information related to that program listing e.g. a program summary actor information etc. .

Lock button may be used to modify access privileges. For example a parent may use lock button or on screen options to establish parental control settings for the interactive television application. The parental control settings may be time based settings e.g. to prevent a child from watching television during a particular time block such as from 3 00 PM to 5 00 PM . The parental control settings may also be used to block programming based on rating channel program title etc. A locked or blocked program is typically not viewable until the interactive television application is provided with a suitable personal identification number PIN . Once this PIN has been entered the interactive television program will unlock the user s equipment and allow the locked content to be accessed.

Exit button may be used to exit the interactive television application or to exit a portion of the interactive television application. Guide button may be used to invoke the interactive television program guide.

The keys shown in are merely illustrative. Other keys or buttons may be provided if desired. For example a music button may be used to access music with the interactive television application. An edit button may be used to edit stored content e.g. to remove commercials remove portions of a video etc. . Alphanumeric buttons may be used to enter alphanumeric characters. A last or back button may be used to browse backward in the interactive television application e.g. to return to a previous channel or display screen . Video recorder function buttons such as a play button pause button stop button rewind button fast forward button and record button may be used to control video recorder functions local or network based in system . A help key may be used to invoke help functions such as context sensitive on screen help etc.

Illustrative user computer equipment is shown in . In the arrangement of personal computer may be controlled by the user using keyboard or other suitable user input device such as a trackball mouse touch pad touch screen voice recognition system a remote control such as remote control of etc. Video content such as television programming and interactive television application display screens may be displayed on monitor . Television programming video on demand content video recordings played back from a network based video recorder and other information may be received from paths and using input output . The user may also send commands and other information used during interactions with the interactive television application and system over input output line .

Personal computer unit may contain a television or video card such as television tuner card for decoding analog and digital television channels and for handling streaming video content. Multiple video cards e.g. tuner cards may be provided if desired. An illustrative television tuner card that may be used may contain an analog television tuner for tuning to a given analog channel and digital decoding circuitry for filtering out a desired digital television or music channel from a packetized digital data stream. Any suitable card or components in computer unit may be used to handle video and other content delivered via input output line if desired.

Personal computer unit may contain one or more processors e.g. microprocessors that are used to run the interactive television application or a portion of the interactive television application.

Storage in personal computer unit such as a hard drive DVD drive CD drive or other suitable storage device or devices may be used to store video and other content. For example the interactive television application and personal computer unit may use this storage to provide the functions of a personal video recorder.

User equipment such as user television equipment and user computer equipment may be used with network equipment such as server server and equipment at service providers such as service provider of to provide network based video recording functions. Video recording functions may be provided by storing copies of television programs and other video content on a remote server e.g. server or server of or other network based equipment such as equipment at a service provider such as service provider .

Video recordings may be made in response to user commands that are entered at user equipment . In a personal video recorder arrangement the interactive television application may be used to record video locally on the user equipment in response to the user commands. In a network based video recorder arrangement the interactive television application may be used to record video or to make virtual recordings on network equipment such as server or equipment at service provider in response to the user commands. The user commands may be provided to the network equipment over the communications paths shown in . The personal video recorder arrangement and the network based video recorder arrangement can support functions such as fast forward rewind pause play and record.

To avoid unnecessary duplication in a network based video recorder environment the system may provide network based video recording capabilities by using virtual copies or recordings. With this approach each user may be provided with a personal area on the network that contains a list of that user s recordings. The video content need only be stored once or a relatively small number of times on the network equipment even though a large number of users may have that video content listed as one of their recordings in their network based video recorder personal area.

The user television equipment and user computer equipment arrangements described above are merely illustrative. A more generalized embodiment of illustrative user equipment is shown in .

As shown in control circuitry is connected to input output . Input output may be connected to one or more communications paths such as paths and of . Television and music programming may be received via input output e.g. from programming sources servers or other equipment such as server service providers such as service provider and television distribution facility . Program schedule information for an interactive television program guide may be received from data source via input output . Input output may also be used to receive information from data source for other interactive television applications. The user may use control circuitry to send commands requests and other suitable information using input output .

Control circuitry may be based on any suitable processing circuitry such as processing circuitry based on one or more microprocessors microcontrollers digital signal processors programmable logic devices etc. Memory e.g. random access memory and read only memory hard drives DVD drives CD drives or any other suitable memory or storage devices may be provided as storage that is part of control circuitry . Tuning circuitry such as one or more analog tuners one or more MPEG 2 decoders or other digital video circuitry or any other suitable tuning or video circuits or combinations of such circuits may also be included as part of circuitry . Encoding circuitry e.g. for converting over the air or cable analog signals to MPEG signals for storage may also be provided. The tuning and encoding circuitry may be used by the user equipment to receive and display or play or record a particular television or music channel or other desired audio and video content e.g. video on demand content or requested network based or local video recorder playback . Television programming and other video and on screen options and information may be displayed on display . Display may be a monitor a television or any other suitable equipment for displaying visual images. Speakers may be provided as part of a television or may be stand alone units. Digital music and the audio component of videos displayed on display may be played through speakers .

A user may control the control circuitry using user input interface . The user input interface may be any suitable user interface such as a mouse trackball keypad keyboard touch screen touch pad voice recognition interface remote control etc.

An illustrative menu that may be displayed on the user s display screen is shown in . As shown in menu may provide the user with an number of selectable options. The options shown in are merely illustrative. Any suitable options may be provided if desired.

A user of user equipment e.g. a user of user television equipment or a user of user computer equipment or a user of any other suitable user equipment device may invoke an interactive television menu such as menu screen by pressing menu button . Remote control or other user interface may be used to position highlight region on top of selectable options such as options . If the user selects option or a screen of program listings may be displayed. Option may be used to display program listings for channels designated by the user as favorites. Option may be used to provide program listings selected for promotion by a service provider e.g. a program guide service provider a cable operator etc. . Option may be used to invoke a home shopping service. Options may be used to search program listings by title time category or any other criteria. Option may be selected to display options related to video on demand services. Option may be selected to display an interactive list of previously recorded recordings and option may be selected to display an interactive list of programs scheduled for recording. Option may be selected to display pay per view program listings and pay per view services options. If the user selects option the user may be presented with an opportunity to access home banking functions. Option may be selected to change system setup options and option may be selected to launch a web browser or other application for accessing the Internet. Option may be selected to access other interactive television services. When the user selects an option with highlight region from menu screen the user s selection may be described in information display region .

If desired program guide screens such as menu screen and other interactive television application screens may include selectable advertisements . Any suitable advertisements may be provided including panel advertisements banner advertisements advertisements provided between program listings advertisements provided on certain program listings or other portions of the screen or any other suitable advertisements. A user may use cursor keys of remote control to position a highlight region on an advertisement of interest and may select the highlighted advertisement using OK key . Users of other user interfaces may make appropriate selections using the buttons or controls available through those interfaces e.g. using voice commands if the user interface involves a voice recognition arrangement etc. .

An illustrative program guide screen that may be displayed for the user is shown in . Program guide screen may be displayed for example when the user selects program listings option of when the user selects a suitable option from within an interactive television program guide application or other interactive television application or when the user presses an appropriate remote control button such as guide button or otherwise uses user input interface to indicate a desire to view program listings.

Program guide screen may contain a grid or list of program listings . Program listings may include program titles channels scheduled broadcast times and any other suitable program schedule information. Highlight region may be used to select a desired program listing . Program Information for selected programs may appear elsewhere on program guide screen e.g. in program information display region . If the user presses OK key when a program listing for a current program is highlighted the interactive television application may tune to the channel for that program. If the user presses OK key when a program listing for a future program is highlighted the interactive television application may provide the user with an opportunity to set a reminder for that program or to record that program.

Other functions that the interactive television application may provide include the ability to set favorites or establish preferences or other settings. For example the user may select a particular channel for the program guide to automatically tune to when the user equipment is turned on. The user may also select favorite programs favorite channels etc. The program guide or other interactive television application may provide the user with the ability to establish parental control settings the ability to search for programming of interest and the ability to view program descriptions advertisements text graphics and video etc. These are merely illustrative examples of interactive television functions that may be provided by interactive television system . Other suitable interactive television functions may be provided if desired.

A user may access program listings e.g. program listings of the type shown in by using the interactive television application to select an on screen option such as option and of by pressing a dedicated guide button such as guide button on remote control by selecting any other suitable button or on screen option etc. In the example of program listings are currently being displayed for television programs that air between 12 00 noon and 1 00 PM. As shown by arrows and the user may use right or left cursor keys to navigate to other times e.g. to direct the interactive television application to display appropriate screens of program listings for different time periods . If desired the user may select options or press keys or use user input interface to otherwise enter suitable commands that direct the interactive television application to display program listings organized by channel by genre by service type e.g. pay per view or regular broadcast television etc.

Selectable options such as options and may be provided as part of program guide screen or any other program guide screen for providing access to various interactive television application features. For example option may be used to display a home screen or main menu such as menu screen of . Option may be selected to display program listings for channels designated by the user as favorites. Option may be selected to display listings of recommended programs using highlight region . Scroll indicators and may be used to navigate down and up through program listings. Option may be selected to display information related to video on demand services. Option may be selected to search television program listings by title time category or any other suitable criteria. Option may be selected to display information related to digital music services.

The interactive television application may provide a flip tuning feature. As shown in when the user invokes the flip mode flip display may be provided over a portion of a channel i.e. channel 2 that the user is currently tuned to and is watching on display screen . Flip display contains information in region on the program appearing on the current channel channel 2 to which the set top box or other user equipment is tuned. The user may change the channel using channel up and down keys on the remote control or using user interface to issue other suitable channel change commands. This simultaneously changes the channel to which the set top box or other user equipment is tuned and the channel information displayed in region and the associated program information .

The flip display may be removed manually or automatically e.g. after a few seconds or other suitable time period of user inactivity . When the user starts changing channels again the flip display may be displayed again.

The flip feature of the interactive television application therefore allows the user to view program information for the channel that the user is currently viewing as the user changes channels. In the example of the flip display is displayed in the form of an overlay on top of the current channel. If desired the video for the current channel may be reduced in size and the flip information e.g. the program title and channel information for the current program may be displayed at a location on the periphery of the reduced size video e.g. at the bottom side or top of the reduced size video .

An advertisement or other content may be provided in the flip display region it desired. Other optional information that may be displayed in flip display includes information on the scheduled broadcast times for the program ratings information program descriptions and other program related information.

The interactive television application may also be used to provide a browse feature. As shown in when the user invokes the browse feature e.g. by pressing an up or down cursor key browse display may be displayed as an overlay over a portion of the channel i.e. channel 2 that is being displayed on the user s display screen and to which the user is currently tuned. Browse display may initially contain information on the current channel. For example browse display may when initially invoked by the user contain the title of the current program and information on the current channel such as the current channel number call letters and network logo.

When the user presses the up or down cursor key or enters other suitable commands using user interface the browse display may be changed to display information on the programming available on other channels. In the example of the user has pressed the cursor keys repeatedly until the user has browsed to channel 99. The video that is being displayed on display screen has not changed in this example channel 2 is still being displayed .

As indicated by arrows the user may use right and left cursor keys or other suitable controls to browse to other time slots e.g. to view information related to programming that is scheduled for broadcast at a later time . Browse display may contain an advertisement information on scheduled program times program descriptions and other program related information and icons such as check icon to indicate that a reminder has been set for a given program and ratings icon .

If the user locates a currently available program of interest on another channel the user may press the OK key to direct the interactive television application to tune the user equipment to that channel.

The browse display may be removed manually or may be removed automatically from display screen after a suitable period of user inactivity e.g. after a few seconds or a minute or two .

If desired the browse display can be displayed on the periphery of the video for the current program rather than as an overlay. The video for the current channel may be reduced in size accordingly.

When the user has indicated interest in a program e.g. by positioning highlight region of on top of a given program listing by tuning to a program by viewing a program listing on the flip banner of or the browse banner of etc. the user may press info key to obtain more information for that program. Illustrative info screens and that may be displayed when a user presses info button are shown in respectively. Screens such as screens and may be provided when a user selects a program listing from a interactive television application screen e.g. program guide screen of . Info screen of may include a detailed description of a program selected by the user. Description may include for example the title time channel and rating of the program or any other suitable information. As in selectable options may be provided as part of info screen to provide access to various interactive television application features. For example option may be used to return to the previous program guide screen. Option may be used to tune to the selected program or set a reminder for the selected program e.g. the program for which information is displaying in description . Option may be selected to display recording options and services for the selected program. Option may be selected to display options for adding a reminder for the selected program. Option may be used to display options for adding the selected program or channel to a user s favorites and option may be used to display options for providing a parental lock on the selected program. Selectable options for other interactive television application features may also be provided. A highlight region may be used to select any of the selectable options provided by a program guide screen. Information describing a highlighted option may be provided for example in information display region .

Information screens may include advertisements. For example info screen of may include selectable advertisements . Information regions on screen such as title region and program description region may be used to display information on the selected program such as title information ratings information plot summary information information about actors genre critics ratings etc.

Region may be used to inform the user of the possibility of setting a reminder for the selected program of tuning to the channel showing the selected program of recording the selected program of purchasing the selected program if it is a pay per view program of parentally controlling the selected program of configuring a related profile or preference settings or performing any other suitable action related to the selected program. Region may also be used to provide additional information related to the selected program. The user may position highlight region on top of either yes option or no option or any other suitable options e.g. options to tune to the channel to record the program to purchase the program to parentally control the program to configure the preference settings etc. . When the user presses the OK key the interactive television application may then take appropriate actions. If the user opts to set a reminder for the program listed in the info screen the interactive television application may display a pop up reminder overlay on top of the video for the channel that the user is currently watching just before the program associated with the reminder is scheduled to begin or any suitable display screen that is active at the time that the reminder pops up e.g. a program listings screen .

An illustrative reminder is shown in . In the example of the user is watching channel 3. The current time is 6 58 PM. Previously the user set a reminder for the program On The Riviera which is scheduled to be shown on channel 39 at 7 00 PM. Because the program for which the user set the reminder is just about to begin the interactive television application displays reminder list as an overlay on top of the video for channel 3 that is being presented on display screen . The reminder list may contain a list of one or more programs for which the user has set reminders. In the example of one program listing On The Riviera is displayed.

The user can tune to a program by selecting that program from the reminder list . For example the user may position highlight region on listing and may select that listing by pressing the OK key . The interactive television application may then tune the user to the channel for the desired program i.e. channel 39 in this example .

The user can close the reminder list by pressing the OK key while hide reminder option is highlighted.

The reminder list may be displayed at any suitable time e.g. at 0 15 minutes before the program of interest is to begin at a user selected time before that program etc. . Moreover the reminder list may be displayed around the periphery of the video for the current channel and the video for the current channel may be displayed in a reduced size window. These are merely illustrative examples. Any suitable arrangement may be used to notify the user of upcoming programs or in progress programs for which the user has set reminders and other programs of interest.

The interactive television application may be used to provide the user with access to video on demand content. The user may for example be provided with an option such as video on demand option on menu screen of . When the user selects option the interactive television application may display a screen such as video on demand categories screen of . Screen may include logos such as logo selectable or non selectable advertisements such as advertisements and a screen title . The user may position highlight region on an option corresponding to a video on demand category of interest.

When the user selects the video on demand category of interest from screen the interactive television application may display a display screen such as subcategory selection screen of . In the example of the subcategories screen contains subcategory options corresponding to movies because in this example the user selected movies A Z option from screen in . Video window may be provided in any video on demand information screen and may provide information relating to a video on demand program selected by the user or any other suitable video information.

The user may position highlight region onto a desired subcategory and may press OK key to view a list of available video on demand content associated with that subcategory. An illustrative display screen that the interactive television application may display for the user when the action subcategory option is selected is shown in . As shown in display screen may include information identifying the selected subcategory . Screen may also include a list of titles or other content indicators . The user may position highlight region on a desired video on demand title and may press the OK key to proceed with the selection of that title.

Selecting a desired video on demand title from title selection screen may direct the interactive television application to display a video on demand information screen such as information screen of . Screen may include information on the selected video on demand content such as title run time price rating and a description of the selected video on demand content.

Selectable options such as options and may be provided as part of screen to provide access to various interactive television application features. For example option may be selected to access options for ordering the selected video on demand content. Option may be used to access options for recording the selected content and option may be used to access options for setting parental control locks for the selected content. If the user selects option the interactive television application may display a video clip containing information on the video on demand content of interest e.g. a promotional video such as a preview a trailer a review etc. . The video clip may be delivered to the user equipment from a server such as server or server of or from equipment at a service provider such a service provider . The interactive television application may also provide the user with additional information on the video on demand content in response to the user selecting option . Other suitable selectable options may also be provided on screen e.g. a program package information and purchase option options for searching program listings for related content etc. .

If a user requests information for video on demand content that has already been ordered the interactive television application may provide video on demand information screen such as screen of which may include selectable options different than those provided for screen of . For example option may be used to start playing selected video on demand content from the program position most recently viewed. Option may be used to present the selected content from the beginning and option may be used to access options for recording the content. Option may be used to remove the selected content from a listing of the ordered and available content. Option may be used to access options for setting parental control locks for the selected content. If the selected content is being accessed over a network or being provided by a network storage device option may be used to store the content on a local storage device.

In response to a user ordering selected content e.g. by selecting an on screen order option such as option of or by using remote control or any other suitable input device to order content etc. the interactive television application may deliver the ordered video on demand content to the user equipment from a server such as server or server or from a service provider such as service provider . The communications paths and communications network of may be used in delivering the requested content.

The ordered video on demand content may be displayed for the user on a display screen such as video on demand playback screen of . As shown in the lower portion of screen interactive options may be displayed in a toolbar or other suitable format. The interactive options or similar remote control buttons may allow the user to rewind the video on demand content to the beginning rewind play fast forward pause stop delivery of the video on demand content or perform other video playback options. The arrangement of is merely illustrative. For example the video on demand content may be played back in a reduced size window of fixed or user selectable size .

The interactive television application may allow the user to establish parental control settings. For example the user may lock a particular program a program rating a channel a type of content e.g. violent or sexual content or may establish a parental control setting that blocks all television viewing during a particular period of time. A user may be required to enter a personal identification number PIN to unlock blocked content.

With one illustrative arrangement a parent or other suitable user may select a program to block by highlighting the program listing for that program in a suitable program listings screen e.g. a screen such as screen of . After highlighting the program to be blocked the parent may press lock key on remote control . The parent may also access options for setting parental locks by selecting an on screen parental control lock option provided by the interactive television application e.g. option of option of etc. .

In response to a user selecting an on screen option or remote control key to access parental control lock options the interactive television application may display a display screen such as parental controls display screen of . Parental controls options may be accessed from a main menu a selected program or any other suitable program guide screen. Users may set parental locks for a selected program or a range of programming by selecting from various criteria. For example users may select to block programs according to title TV rating movie rating channel or any other suitable criteria. Block ratings options and may allow users to block all programming with a given rating e.g. the same rating as the selected program or a user input rating or range of ratings . The user may be provided with other options for applying parental lock settings by selecting for example YES NO time block option . A user may also select to hide or show adult titles by selecting option . Other selectable options may also be provided in screen .

If the user has selected YES for time block option a time block sub menu may be provided for example screen of . The user may use the on screen options of screen to set a beginning time option and ending time option for the parental control time period. The user may use option to make the parental control setting effective for all days of the week certain groups of days e.g. week days or weekend days or a particular day or days. The user may press OK key when finished. Other selectable options may also be provided as part of screen .

The parental control screens and of are merely illustrative. Any suitable on screen options or other user interface arrangement may be used to allow a parent or other user to block parentally control programming airing during a particular period of time programming on a particular channel or channels programming with a certain rating individual instances of certain programs etc.

The interactive television system may be used to support video recorder functions. The video recorder functions may be supported using local arrangements e.g. arrangements in which a personal video recorder or other suitable equipment in the user s home is used to record videos on a local hard drive or other storage device and network based arrangements e.g. arrangements in which network equipment such as servers and or equipment at a service provider such as service provider is used to store video and data for the user . Combinations of these arrangements may also be supported using system .

In a local video recorder arrangement sometimes called a personal video recorder arrangement or local digital video recorder arrangement video recordings are stored locally on the user equipment. Information on which videos have been recorded may also be maintained locally. Program guide information e.g. titles rates descriptions categories etc. may also be maintained for the recorded videos. When a user desires to view a list of the recordings that the user has stored on the user equipment the interactive television application may retrieve this information from local storage and may display this information to the user locally on user equipment . The user may then select a desired recording to play back.

In a network based video recorder arrangement sometimes called a client server video recorder arrangement videos may be stored on the network e.g. at servers such as servers and or at a service provider such as service provider . Information on which programs have been recorded for the user may be stored locally and on the network e.g. at servers such as servers and or at a service provider such as service provider .

Network based recordings may be made in a number of ways. For example some or all of the regularly broadcast television programming provided by programming sources may be automatically recorded or copies of this programming otherwise maintained on a suitable network storage device such as server server or equipment at a service provider such as service provider . If the user chooses to record a program no actual recording need be made because a copy of the desired program already exists on the system. With this type of arrangement virtual recordings take the place of real recordings.

The user may be given a personal area on the network. The personal area may be accessed when the user enters an appropriate personal identification number or by virtue of the user s connection to the network through a known or trusted communications path e.g. when the user is connected through a dedicated cable path to a server at a cable system headend such as a server at television distribution facility of .

The personal area may be used to maintain a list of the video content that the user has recorded. Whenever the user directs the network based video recorder portion of the interactive television system to make a recording the system updates the user s personal area to make it appear as though an additional real copy of the requested recording has been made. The network based video recorder implemented with this approach therefore conserves storage space while providing users with the illusion of access to a network based video recorder dedicated to their personal use.

Alternatively there may be no personal area and each user may have access to all previously recorded content to which they had rights when originally broadcast.

As another example some or all of the content for which a user requests that a recording be made may be recorded by creating actual copies e.g. digital recordings of the requested content. These actual copies may be stored on network equipment e.g. servers such as servers and or equipment at a service provider such as service provider .

A combination of these approaches may be used if desired. For example some content may be automatically retained by the system e.g. copies of popular programming . The user may make virtual recordings of this material. The presence of the virtual recordings may be reflected in the user s personal area. Other content may be stored in the form of actual recordings at the direction of the user e.g. less popular content . The presence of these recordings may also be reflected in the user s personal area.

Regardless of the way in which network based recordings virtual or real and local recordings are made the interactive television application may be used to provide the user with interactive display screens that assist the user in making recordings managing recordings e.g. editing recordings deleting recordings renaming recordings sending recordings to other users over the communications paths of etc. playing back recordings viewing information about recorded programs etc.

Once a program has been selected by a user for recording the selected program may be presented in an interactive list of programs scheduled to be recorded. An illustrative scheduled recordings screen that may be displayed for the user on user equipment is shown in . Screen may be displayed by the interactive television application when the user selects an option provided by another program guide screen such as program guide screen of or any other suitable option. Screen may include for example a list of programs scheduled to be recorded . A highlight region may be used to select a scheduled recording from the list. The user may position highlight region on a desired scheduled recording and select the scheduled recording using an appropriate key of remote control .

Information about a scheduled recording selected by the user may be presented in a screen such as screen of . Screen may include scheduled recording information which may show the date time and channel for which a program is to be recorded. Information may also indicate which device has been designated to record the program and whether a parental lock is set for the program scheduled to be recorded. The user may edit information by selecting edit option using a highlight region. Other selectable options may be provided in screen for example cancel option which the user may select to cancel the scheduled recording.

Once a program has been recorded a program guide screen may be presented to display recorded programs. An illustrative video recordings screen that may be displayed for the user on user equipment is shown in . Screen may be displayed by the interactive television application when the user selects an option provided by another program guide screen such as program guide screen of or any other suitable option. The recordings may be local recordings that are stored on the user s equipment or may be real or virtual network based recordings e.g. network based content stored on equipment such as server or server or at service provider . In a network based video recorder environment with a personal area screens such as screen provide access to all or part of the user s personal area. The user may navigate through the personal area using remote control or other suitable user interface .

Screen may include a list of the user s recordings . Recording listings may include the time and channel the program was recorded or any other suitable information. The user may position highlight region to select a recording of interest e.g. to view that recording to view information about that program to delete the program etc. . The user may position highlight region on a desired recording and select the recording using an appropriate key of remote control .

Information about a recording selected by the user may be presented in a screen such as screen as illustrated in . Screen may include recording information which may show the date time and channel the program was recorded. Information may also show whether a parental lock is set for the recording and what device has been designated to store the recording. The user may play the recording by selecting option . The user may play the selected recording from the beginning by selecting option . Option may be selected to delete the recording from the list of recordings. Option may be used to set a parental lock for the selected recording. If the selected recording is being stored on a network video storage device the user may select option to transfer the recording to a local storage device. On screen options may be selected using a highlight region and a remote control or by any other suitable method.

When a given recording is selected for playback for example by selecting play option a display screen such as display screen of may be presented. Display screen may include the video of the selected program that is being played back to the user and options for controlling the video. Options may for example include options that allow the user to rewind the video to the beginning to rewind or reverse the video to play the video to fast forward the video to pause the video or to stop the video. Control of these functions and other interactive television application functions may be supported using on screen options dedicated or multi purpose keys on remote control or other user devices or other suitable arrangements involving user interface . When on screen options are used the options may be displayed in the form of one or more overlays on top of video or video may be provided in a reduced size window and the options displayed outside of this window.

With the arrangement of the user can browse the user s recordings and can play back and control the playback of these recordings. Recordings that are stored locally on user equipment may be played back by retrieving these recordings from the local hard drive or other storage on which the recordings are maintained. Recordings that are stored on the network may be played back from the network equipment on which the recording content is stored. User equipment may receive such content in the form of a real time video stream or a file download and the interactive television application may play back the received content using a display screen arrangement of the type shown in .

The user may record programming by indicating interest in a program for recording by highlighting a program of interest on a suitable display screen provided by the interactive television application and pressing a record key by selecting a program for recording from a flip or browse display by tuning to a desired program and selecting an appropriate record button by selecting a record option from an information screen etc. For example the user may highlight a program in a program listings screen such as screen of or may display a program listing of interest on a flip display such as flip display of or on a browse display such as browse display of . When the user presses a suitable remote control key such as record key of the interactive television application may record the desired program.

The interactive television application may automatically record the program that the user selected or may provide one or more additional confirmation and information screens after the user presses the record key . As an example the interactive television application may display a screen such as record set up screen of . As shown in screen may include title and ratings information in region and a program description . The user may be provided with information on the scheduled broadcast time for the selected program. If the user desires to record the program the user may position highlight region on top of YES option and may press OK key . If the user does not wish to record the program the user may position highlight on top of NO option and may press the OK key . If desired other options such as series recording options recording quality options and buffer time options may be provided.

When the user directs the interactive television application to record a given program the interactive television application will record the program using the local capabilities of user equipment or using the network based video recorder capabilities of the system depending on the equipment of the user the capabilities of system and system and user settings.

After the program has been recorded the user may use the interactive television application to view information on the user s recordings e.g. using a display screen arrangement of the type shown in . These techniques for supporting recording functionality in the interactive television application are merely illustrative. Any suitable arrangement for recording as real recordings or as virtual recordings and locally or on network equipment may be used if desired.

Because the network based or local personal video recording capabilities of system may be used to time shift broadcast programming the user may be provided with an opportunity to defer or reschedule the viewing of a given program as desired. For example the interactive television application e.g. a program guide application may provide on screen options that the user may select to choose a suitable deferred time at which to receive a reminder for the program.

If the user chooses not to defer the reminder the interactive television application may provide a reminder for the user just before the scheduled broadcast time of the program. The user may view the program at this time as it is broadcast. If the user chooses to defer the reminder the interactive television application may provide the reminder at a later time e.g. two hours after the original broadcast time when no broadcast is scheduled . The user may view a recording of the program at this time by playing back the recording from the network based or local personal video recorder.

Programs may be recorded by using network based or local personal video recording systems. Local video recording arrangements may include a personal video recorder or other suitable equipment in the user s home and such equipment may store videos on a local hard drive or other suitable storage device such as recording devices or respectively .

Programs may also be recorded by a network based system. Network based arrangements for storing video and data for the user may include equipment such as servers and or equipment at a service provider such as service provider . Information about these stored programs may be stored locally and on the network.

Network based recording of programs may be performed automatically or otherwise maintained by the system. Accordingly when a user chooses to record a specific program a virtual recording rather than an actual or real recording may be made that refers to the existing recording of the desired program on the system thereby conserving storage space on the network. The network may also include personal areas for each user in which a list of the user s recordings may be maintained. This list of recordings may include both virtual recordings and actual or real recordings. Actual recordings may also be stored in the personal area either by directly recording the desired program or by creating a copy of the network based recording in the user s personal area. Access to the user s personal area may be controlled by entry of the user s personal identification number or by a trusted or known communications path associated with the user as described above.

Combinations of these arrangements may also be used. For example a user s list of recordings may include virtual recordings that refer to network based recordings actual recordings that are stored in the user s personal area on the network and actual recordings that are stored on a local personal video recorder equipment. A user s network based or locally stored actual recordings may result from direct recording of the programs. Alternatively or in addition actual recordings in the user s personal area or local personal recording device may result from creating copies of the network based recordings and storing them in the user s network based personal area or local personal video recorder.

Accordingly it is understood that the features described herein may be used with both network based and locally stored recordings of programs using network based or local personal video recorders as well as actual and virtual recordings of programs. Video recorders may include either or both network based video recorders and local personal video recorders. Reminders for programs as described below may be used with programs stored using any other suitable storage arrangements as well.

Any suitable arrangement may be used to allow the user to select a desired time for receiving a program reminder for a program. One illustrative display screen arrangement that may be used is shown in . Display screen of may be displayed by the interactive television application when the user selects a desired program from a grid or other list of scheduled programs e.g. using highlight region of list of . When the selected program is not available at any other time than the originally scheduled broadcast time e.g. because video recording of the program is prohibited or otherwise not available the interactive television application may display a set reminder screen reminder such as the set reminder screen of and may display reminders of the type shown in . 

As shown in screen may include an information region that identifies the selected program Seinfeld in this example . Information region may also contain information on the originally scheduled broadcast or air time for the program e.g. 8 00 PM tonight and information on the longer term availability of the program through the network based video recorder e.g. until 8 00 PM Friday .

In some situations certain programs may be available for long periods of time or even indefinitely. On other situations programs will be deleted from the system or at least the publicly available portion of the system to save on storage space or to follow the practices of the system operator. Programs that will only be available for a fixed period of time may be referred to as having expiration dates. In the example of the network based recording copy of Seinfeld will be available only until 8 00 PM on Friday after which it will expire.

Options may be provided to allow the user to select a desired viewing reminder time for Seinfeld. The user may select a desired viewing time by using remote control cursor keys to position a highlight region on a desired option and by pressing the OK key to mark that option.

The user may select option to set a reminder for Seinfeld at its original scheduled broadcast time 8 00 PM Thursday . The user may select an option such as option when it is desired to set a reminder for a time other than the originally scheduled broadcast time. If desired deferred viewing may be provided as a premium fee based service. With this type of arrangement a fee may be imposed in association with the user s selection of a time shifted reminder e.g. 0.50 as shown in .

If the user selects option the interactive television application may display a reminder for the user on the user s equipment at 8 00 PM or a short time before 8 00 PM on Thursday. If the user selects option the interactive television application may display a reminder for the user on the user s equipment at 9 00 PM or a short time before 9 00 PM on Thursday. The user may select any of the other options to set a reminder for another desired time. 

The reminder may be provided in the form of an overlay over the current television channel may be displayed using a full screen format may be displayed in the form of an icon or may be provided using any other suitable arrangement. An illustrative reminder is shown in . In the example of the reminder is provided in the form of an overlay that is displayed in a display screen on top of video for the current channel.

The reminder may include a number of selectable options that the user may select by proper positioning of highlight region . Options may include a watch now option that the user may select to watch the desired program immediately. Option may be used to defer viewing. Option may be selected when the user desires to cancel the reminder and hide the reminder display . Option may be selected if the user wants to archive a copy of the program to the user s personal area on the network based video recorder or the local personal video recorder.

If a reminder is being provided at the scheduled broadcast time for the selected program e.g. at 8 00 PM on Thursday for the present example selection of the watch now option directs the interactive television application to tune the user s equipment to the appropriate channel to view the scheduled airing of the desired program. If a reminder is being provided at a time later than the scheduled broadcast time the program will have been recorded using the network based or local personal video recorder. Accordingly selection of watch now option will direct the network based video recorder to play back the program on the user equipment e.g. using a playback arrangement of the type shown in or any other suitable video recorder arrangement .

Different content management arrangements may be used to store and maintain copies of broadcast content on system . In one illustrative arrangement the network equipment e.g. server server or equipment at service provider may be used to record or maintain copies of all or substantially all broadcast programming that is provided to the users. For example all or substantially all incoming broadcast programming may be automatically recorded and maintained on a server at a cable system headend. In another illustrative arrangement only some of the broadcast content may be stored automatically. For example popular situation comedies may be recorded and unpopular news programs may not be recorded. In yet another illustrative arrangement programs are recorded when requested by a user. For example if a user requests that a particular movie be recorded the network based video recorder will store a copy of that movie for the user. These approaches may be combined if desired. In another arrangement the foregoing storage and maintenance arrangements may use local storage equipment in addition to network based storage arrangements. Moreover in both arrangements copies of programs and other content may be stored in the form of either real copies e.g. individual files on the servers personal video recorders or other local or network equipment or may be stored in the form of virtual copies e.g. suitable database records or other information that is associated with one or more actual copies .

If all or some of the broadcast programs being aired are being automatically recorded by the network based or local personal video recorder it may be desirable to present the user with an option such as archive option on reminder set up screen of . The user can use remote control keys to toggle option between an option such as archive Seinfeld to my personal area if I miss it and do not record a copy. If the archive option has been selected the interactive television application may monitor the user s activities to determine whether the user is watching Seinfeld at the time for which the reminder was set. If the user does not interact with user equipment or the interactive television application during the time period at which the user was to watch Seinfeld the interactive television application may use the video recorder capabilities of system to archive a copy of Seinfeld in the user s personal area on the network or local equipment. For example an additional program listing Seinfeld may be added to the user s recorded programs list of or to the user s archive accessed using a screen such as the screen of .

An archive if missed option may be provided on any suitable interactive television application display screen. Moreover this functionality may be incorporated into the interactive television application as a default capability which may or may not be disengaged by the user .

In situations in which a copy of a desired program is not scheduled to be automatically retained by the system the user may be presented with a record if missed option in place of archive if missed option . If this option is selected or if an equivalent function is implemented as a default and the interactive television application determines that the user has failed to watch the selected program the program can be recorded into the user s personal area as either a real copy or a virtual copy using the network based or local personal video recorder capabilities of system .

To confirm the selection of a desired option on screen and to confirm the user s choice of whether to automatically archive a copy of the program into the user s personal area using option the user may position highlight region on top of yes option and may press OK. If the user chooses not to set a reminder either at the original broadcast time or a time shifted time the user may select no option .

Using a screen of the type shown in the user may be presented with the scheduled broadcast time one or more deferred times relative to the scheduled broadcast time and another option other that allows the user to access additional screens to select from additional deferred time options or to enter a specific time e.g. using numeric keys on the remote control . This is merely one illustrative arrangement for providing the user with the ability to set a desired reminder time.

Another possible arrangement is shown in . With the illustrative reminder time selection screen of the user may position slider e.g. using arrow keys on the remote control at an appropriate horizontal position that represents a desired reminder time. If the user positions slider at the leftmost position i.e. the location that indicates a desired reminder time of 8 00 PM on Thursday the interactive television application may display a reminder such as reminder of at 8 00 PM on Thursday. If the user positions slider at the position shown in and selects option a reminder may be provided at 11 00 PM on Thursday.

Another suitable arrangement for setting reminders is shown in . Reminder set up screen of may include a reminder time selection region that the user may use to select a desired time e.g. using cursor keys or numeric keys that may appear in . The price associated with viewing the program at each time may be displayed in region if desired. For example free may be displayed when the reminder is set for the originally scheduled broadcast time. When a reminder time is selected that is later than the scheduled broadcast time a fee e.g. 0.50 may be displayed in region . If desired a higher price may be charged for setting a reminder at a time later than the normal expiration time for the program which would result in extending the expiration time or archiving a copy in the user s personal area or local storage. The process of setting the reminder at the desired time may be confirmed by selecting option .

In system environments in which copies of all or substantially all programs are automatically maintained on the network equipment an archive if missed option of the type shown in may be included on screens of the type shown in . Price information e.g. premium charges associated with time shifting operations or archiving may be provided on screens of the type shown in .

In system environments in which copies of some but not all programs are automatically maintained an archive if missed option may be provide when the desired program is one that is scheduled for automatic recording. A record if missed option may be provided when a program is available for network based video recorder or local video recorder recording. If desired the on screen options that are presented to the user need not distinguish between archiving operations in which users are provided with real or virtual archive copies and recording operations in which otherwise unsaved material is affirmatively copied and saved as a real or virtual recording . Such operations may be made available to the user through on screen options that are described as being options for recording archiving copying saving storing etc.

Moreover screens and are merely illustrative. Any suitable user interface arrangement may be used to allow a user to interact with the interactive television application when setting time shifted reminders and associated recording and archiving options.

Regardless of the type of reminder setting screen that is used to provide the user with choices regarding when to view a program and set a corresponding reminder at the time for which the reminder was set the interactive television application may display or otherwise present the user with a suitable reminder. In the example of the reminder is provided in the form of an overlay on top of video for the current television channel. If the user does not wish to watch the program corresponding to the reminder the user may further defer the viewing of the program and may set a correspondingly delayed reminder by selecting watch later option .

If watch later option is selected the interactive television application may display on screen options of the type shown in . In the illustrative arrangement of a menu of deterred reminder time options may be displayed for the user. Menu may be displayed using any suitable arrangement. In the example of menu is displayed as an overlay on top of video for the current channel .

The user may choose to defer the reminder by positioning highlight region on top of a desired option . For example the user may select option to defer the reminder for five minutes or may select option to defer the reminder for thirty minutes. Other options may be used to defer the reminder by other amounts. When the new reminder time arrives the user may be presented with a reminder of the type shown in .

In system environments in which all broadcast programs are automatically stored on the network video recorder menus such as menu of may be provided with an archive if missed option such as option . If the interactive television application determines that a user has failed to view the program the interactive television application may create an archived copy of the missed program in the user s personal area on the network or on the local personal video recorder equipment.

In system environments in which only some programs are automatically retained by the network based video recorder equipment of the system the user may be presented with an option on menus such as menu that allows the user to create an archived copy of the program in the user s personal area if the program is one that is being automatically retained by the system or allows the user to direct the network based video recorder to record a copy of the program on the user s local equipment if the program is one that was not being automatically retained but is available for recording .

In system environments in which programs are only recorded on the network based or local personal video recorder equipment of the system as a result of a user request the interactive television application may present the user with an option on menus such as menu that allows the user to request that a recording be made in the event that the program is missed. When the interactive television application determines that the program has been missed the program may be recorded into the user s personal area on the network or local personal video recorder as a real copy or a virtual copy.

Illustrative steps involved in implementing the deferred reminders feature of the network based video recorder in different system environments are shown in . The flow chart of shows steps used in a system environment in which copies of all or substantially all scheduled programming are automatically retained by the network based video recorder. The flow chart of shows steps used in a system environment in which some of the scheduled broadcast programming is automatically retained and some of this programming is not retained programs can also be recorded at a user s request . The flow chart of shows steps used in a system environment in which programs are recorded at the request of the user programming can also be retained automatically . The flow charts shown in may also describe system environments in which recording retention and storage of broadcast programming may occur on local equipment such as a local personal video recorder.

In one suitable arrangement copies of all broadcast programs are automatically retained on the system. With this type of arrangement users can use the network based or local personal video recorder capabilities of system to play back copies of programs of interest. The user may be provided with a personal area on the network. Copies of programs that the user is interested in may be stored as virtual copies or as separate real copies in the user s personal area or on the local equipment. The process of making a system copy of a program appear in the user s personal set of listings may be referred to as archiving.

Due to storage restrictions it may not be desirable to maintain copies of all broadcast programs in the network based or local personal video recorder for an indefinite period. Accordingly these programs may be erased or moved to a more remote storage location after an appropriate time has elapsed from their initial broadcast. To avoid losing ready access to a desired program the user may wish to archive the program in that user s personal area or local PVR. The user may be charged a one time or periodic fee for this service by the system. Archived virtual or real copies can be maintained on the network or local PVR for ready access by the user. Copies that are not archived may be impossible or at least more difficult to access.

Steps involved in providing a user with the ability to use network based or local personal video recorder functions to reschedule reminders and archive missed programs are shown in the flow chart of . In conjunction with the steps shown in the system is continually retaining copies of all television programs being provided to the users e.g. by maintaining digital copies on server of all of the programs distributed to the users via television distribution facility .

At step the user may be provided with an opportunity to select a program for which to set a reminder. For example the interactive television application e.g. the program guide may display a screen containing program listings such as the screen of . The user may select a desired program for which to set a reminder from this screen.

After the user has selected a desired program the interactive television application may provide the user with an opportunity to select a desired reminder and viewing time at step . An on screen display arrangement of the types shown in may be used if desired. The user may also be provided with an opportunity to interact with an archive if missed option such as option of at step . Archiving operations may also be performed by default. If the user directs the system to archive missed programs the programs will not only be automatically retained by the system as part of the system s automatic retention of all broadcast programming but will also be archived to the user s personal area or local PVR e.g. for a length of time determined by the user s payment of appropriate fees etc. .

In response to step the user may select a time for the reminder that coincides with the originally scheduled broadcast time for the desired program or may select a deferred reminder time. The selection of the deferred reminder time is made possible by the network based or local personal video recorder functions of system . When the user selected time arrives a reminder may be displayed for the user at step .

The reminder that is displayed by the interactive television application at step may be for example a reminder of the type shown in or any other suitable reminder. The reminder may include options such as the options of that allow the user to watch the desired program immediately to defer viewing and reschedule the reminder to cancel the reminder and to archive the program immediately to the user s personal area or local PVR e.g. if the user does not anticipate watching the program in the near future .

If the user chooses to watch the program immediately the interactive television application may display the program for the user on the user s equipment at step . If the program is currently being broadcast e.g. because the reminder was set for the originally scheduled broadcast time the interactive television application may tune the user s equipment to the appropriate television channel to receive that program. The received program may be displayed on the user s monitor e.g. the user s television screen . If the program is not currently being broadcast e.g. because the user is relying on the network based video recorder functions of the system to retrieve a saved version of the program the program may be played back for the user using the network based video recorder. A playback arrangement of the type shown in or any other suitable arrangement may be used to play back the desired program for the user from the network based or local personal video recorder.

If in response to step the user chose to reschedule the reminder e.g. the user selected a watch later option to change the reminder to a later time because the user was not yet ready to view the program the user may at step be provided with an opportunity to interact with on screen reminder time rescheduling options of the type shown in . As shown in the user may also be presented with an on screen option to schedule an automatic network based or local archiving operation in the event that the user misses the rescheduled program broadcast.

After rescheduling the reminder at step control loops back to step . When the new reminder time arrives the system may therefore display a new reminder for the user at step .

If an original or rescheduled reminder time arrives and the user is watching television or otherwise using user equipment the user may choose to watch the program that is the subject of the reminder at step or may cancel the reminder step . The user may also select an option such as archive to personal area or local PVR option of to direct the interactive television application to archive a copy of the program to the user s personal area or local PVR at step . A copy of the program may also be archived to the user s personal area or local PVR at step if the user misses a program that was selected for archiving e.g. using an option such as option of . No reminder need actually be displayed at step if the user s display is not active at the reminder time e.g. in the situation in which the user is missing the program .

Alternatively or in addition to the above if an original or rescheduled reminder time arrives and the user does not respond to or otherwise acknowledge the displayed reminder for some defined period of time the interactive television application may be configured to assume that the user will miss or has missed the program. Similarly if the user is engaged in an uninterruptible activity e.g. the user is engaged in or entering a purchase transaction when an original or rescheduled reminder time arrives the application may also assume that the user will miss or has missed the program. In either situation the application may subsequently perform an action appropriate for when the user has missed the program e.g. archiving the program if the user previously set an archive if missed option .

When the user selects an archive option such as archive option of or when the user previously set an archive if missed option and the user fails to watch the program in time the system may create an archive copy of the program at step . The archive copy may be made by creating an actual extra copy of the program for the user or by updating an appropriate database or otherwise storing information that indicates that the user has archived a copy of the program.

Regardless of whether a real archive copy or a virtual archive copy of the program is created for the user the user s personal area on the network or the local PVR may be updated accordingly. For example the user s lists of recordings that are provided by the interactive television application such as the list of may be updated to reflect the availability of the archived copy of the program. This type of on screen listing arrangement may be used to allow the user to request that a given program recording archive copy be played back to the user step .

Another suitable arrangement for providing the user with access to archived programs is shown in . With the arrangement of the interactive television application may display a screen of archive category options . The user may select most recent option to access listings for recently archived programs. Options such as options and may be used to access lists of archived programs according to their genre. Genre information for recorded programs may be obtained from data source and stored in a program listings database for use by the interactive television application. By channel option may be used to display a list of archived programs ordered by their associated television channels.

Preference matches option may be selected when the use desires to view programs that match the user s preferences. The user s preferences may be stored in a preference profile. Information on the user s preferences may be gathered by the interactive television application by monitoring the user s interactions with the interactive television application by manual input e.g. by the user by surveys on line telephone through the user equipment etc. or using any other suitable approach.

Edit create categories option may be used to provide access to editing functions. The user may use option to create new options to delete undesired options and to otherwise customize the user interface with archived content.

System housekeeping operations step of may be performed at any suitable time. Such operations may for example involve deleting certain programs while retaining programs that users have paid to maintain in their personal areas. The interactive television application may be used to provide the user with opportunities to extend storage e.g. upon payment of an additional fee or to otherwise assist during housekeeping operations.

The flow chart of shows steps involved in operating the interactive television application in a system environment in which some of the scheduled broadcast programming is automatically retained and some of this programming is not retained. With this type of arrangement users can use the network based or local personal video recorder capabilities of system to play back copies of at least some programs of interest. Other programs of interest may be watched in real time as broadcast programs. The user may be provided with a personal area on the network. Copies of programs that are available for archiving i.e. those programs for which copies are automatically maintained may be stored as virtual copies or as separate real copies in the user s personal area or in the local PVR.

Programs that are not stored automatically by the system may be stored upon user request. Periodic housekeeping operations may be used to delete or otherwise remove certain programs from the primary storage areas of the network based or local personal video recorder. To avoid losing ready access to a desired program the user may wish to archive the program in that user s personal area or local PVR. The user may be charged a one time or periodic fee for this service by the system. Archived virtual or real copies can be maintained on the network or local PVR for ready access by the user. Copies that are not archived may be impossible or at least more difficult to access. In conjunction with the steps shown in the system may continually retain copies of some of the television programs being provided to the users e.g. by maintaining digital copies on server of these programs as they are distributed to the users via television distribution facility .

At step the user may be provided with an opportunity to select a program for which to set a reminder. For example the interactive television application e.g. the program guide may display a screen containing program listings such as the screen of . The user may select a desired program for which to set a reminder from this screen.

At step the interactive television application may determine whether the selected program is among those that are to be automatically retained using the network based or local personal video recorder. If the selected program is not among those for which a copy is to be automatically retained the user may be provided with an opportunity to set the reminder at step . For example the user may be provided with a screen such as the set reminders screen of . The user may use this screen to set a reminder for the program at the regularly scheduled broadcast time for that program. Even if the selected program is not scheduled for automatic recording the user may be able to select a delayed reminder option. In making such a selection the interactive television application may be record the selected program for which the delayed reminder was set by using the network based or local personal video recorder capabilities of the system.

When the time for the program arrives the interactive television application may display the reminder for the user at step . For example the interactive television application may display a reminder such as the reminder of . If desired the set reminder screen provided at step may include an option that the user may select to direct the network based or local personal video recorder to record the program into the user s personal area or local PVR as a real or virtual copy in the event that the user does not watch the program.

The reminder screens such as the reminder list display of that are displayed by the interactive television application may if desired include an option that directs the interactive television application to record the program associated with the reminder. The program may be recorded locally when network based recording is not available. At step the user may be provided with a reminder that allows deferred viewing using the network based or local personal video recorder functions of the system . User initiated recording of missed or deferred programs that are not automatically retained is described further in connection with .

If it is determined at step that the program selected by the user is one for which a copy of the program is going to be automatically retained the user may be provided with an opportunity to select a desired reminder time for the program at step . Because a copy of the program is being retained past the originally scheduled broadcast time it is not necessary to restrict the reminder time to the time originally scheduled for broadcasting the program. Rather an arrangement such as the on screen menu arrangements of may be used to select a reminder time that is at the scheduled broadcast time or that is later than the scheduled broadcast time i.e. at a time for which no broadcast of the program is scheduled .

The user may also be provided with an opportunity to interact with an archive if missed option such as option of at step . Archiving operations may also be performed by default. If the user directs the system to archive missed programs the programs will not only be automatically retained by the system as part of the system s automatic retention of certain broadcast programming but will also be archived to the user s personal area or local PVR e.g. for a length of time determined by the user s payment of appropriate fees etc. .

Using the on screen options provided during step the user may select a time for the reminder that coincides with the originally scheduled broadcast time for the desired program or may select a deferred reminder time. When the user selected time arrives a reminder may be displayed for the user at step .

The reminder that is displayed by the interactive television application at step may be for example a reminder of the type shown in or any other suitable reminder. The reminder may include options such as the options of that allow the user to watch the desired program immediately to defer viewing and reschedule the reminder to cancel the reminder and to archive the program immediately to the user s personal area or local PVR e.g. if the user does not anticipate watching the program in the near future .

If the user chooses to watch the program immediately the interactive television application may display the program for the user on the user s equipment at step . If the program is currently being broadcast e.g. because the reminder was set for the originally scheduled broadcast time the interactive television application may tune the user s equipment to the appropriate television channel to receive that program at step . The received program may be displayed on the user s monitor e.g. the user s television screen . If the program is not currently being broadcast e.g. because the user is relying on the network based or local personal video recorder functions of the system to retrieve a saved version of the program the program may be played back for the user using the network based or local personal video recorder at step . A playback arrangement of the type shown in or any other suitable arrangement may be used to play back the desired program for the user from the network based or local personal video recorder.

If in response to step the user chose to reschedule the reminder e.g. the user selected a watch later option to change the reminder to a later time because the user was not yet ready to view the program the user may at step be provided with an opportunity to interact with on screen reminder time rescheduling options of the type shown in . As shown in the user may also be presented with an on screen option to schedule an automatic archiving operation in the event that the user misses the rescheduled program broadcast.

After rescheduling the reminder at step control loops back to step . When the new reminder time arrives the system may therefore display a new reminder for the user at step .

If an original or rescheduled reminder time arrives and the user is watching television or otherwise using user equipment the user may choose to watch the program that is the subject of the reminder thereby directing the interactive television application to tune to the appropriate channel or play back the program at step . The user may select an option to cancel the reminder thereby directing the interactive television application to cancel the reminder at step . The user may also select an option such as archive to personal area option of to direct the interactive television application to archive a copy of the program to the user s personal area at step . Alternatively or in addition the absence of a response or selection from the user after the reminder has been displayed for some period of time may also direct the interactive television application to archive a copy of the program to the user s personal area at step . A copy of the program may also be archived to the user s personal area or local PVR at step if the user misses a program that was selected for archiving e.g. using an option such as option of . No reminder need actually be displayed at step if the user s display is not active at the reminder time e.g. in the situation in which the user is missing the program .

When the user selects an archive option such as archive option of or when the user previously set an archive if missed option and the user fails to watch the program in time the system may create an archive copy of the program at step . The archive copy may be made by creating an actual extra copy of the program for the user or by updating an appropriate database or otherwise storing information that indicates that the user has archived a copy of the program. The archive copy may be stored in the user s personal area on the network or on the local PVR.

Regardless of whether a real archive copy or a virtual archive copy of the program is created for the user the user s personal area on the network or local PVR may be updated accordingly. For example the user s lists of recordings that are provided by the interactive television application such as the list of may be updated to reflect the availability of the archived copy of the program. This type of on screen listing arrangement or any other suitable arrangement such as the arrangement described in connection with may be used to allow the user to request that a given program recording archive copy be played back to the user step .

System housekeeping operations step may be performed at any suitable time. Such operations may for example involve deleting certain programs while retaining programs that users have paid to maintain in their personal areas or local PVR. The interactive television application may be used to provide the user with opportunities to extend storage e.g. upon payment of an additional fee or to otherwise assist during housekeeping operations.

The flow chart of shows steps involved in operating the interactive television application in a system environment in which scheduled broadcast programming is not automatically retained but is available for recording using the network based or local personal video recorder capabilities of the system. With this type of arrangement users can use the network based or local personal video recorder capabilities of system to record and play back programs of interest but copies of programs are generally not stored unless requested by at least one or other suitable number of the users e.g. at least one or some of the users associated with a given television distribution facility . Other programs of interest may be watched in real time as broadcast programs. The user may be provided with a personal area on the network or on the local PVR. Recordings of programs that are made at the request of the user may be stored as virtual copies or as separate real copies in the user s personal area or local PVR.

Periodic housekeeping operations may be used to delete or otherwise remove certain programs from the network the user s personal area or the local PVR.

At step of the user may be provided with an opportunity to select a program for which to set a reminder. For example the interactive television application e.g. the program guide may display a screen containing program listings such as the screen of . The user may select a desired program for which to set a reminder from this screen e.g. by positioning a highlight region on a desired program and pressing a remote control OK key .

The user may be provided with an opportunity to select a desired reminder time for the program at step . Because the program may be recorded using the network based or local personal video recorder capabilities of system it is not necessary to restrict the reminder time to the time originally scheduled for broadcasting the program. Rather an arrangement such as the on screen menu arrangements of may be used to select a reminder time that is at the scheduled broadcast time or that is later than the scheduled broadcast time i.e. at a time at which the program is not being broadcast .

During step the user may also be provided with an opportunity to interact with a record if missed option. This type of option may be displayed using the same type of arrangement used for option of . Missed programs may also be recorded by default.

If the user sets up a reminder time that is later than the scheduled broadcast time for the selected program the program may be recorded for later playback at step using the network based or local personal video recorder capabilities of system . At step at the reminder time set by the user the interactive television application may display a reminder for the user. The reminder may for example be a reminder of the type shown in . Options such as options may be included in the reminder that allow the user to watch the program immediately to watch later and therefore reschedule the reminder to cancel or ignore the reminder and to record a copy of the program e.g. by recording a copy of the program in the user s personal area of the network or local PVR .

If the user chooses to watch the program immediately the interactive television application may display the program for the user on the user s equipment at step . If the program is currently being broadcast e.g. because the reminder was set for the originally scheduled broadcast time the interactive television application may tune the user s equipment to the appropriate television channel to receive that program at step . The received program may be displayed on the user s monitor e.g. the user s television screen . If the program is not currently being broadcast e.g. because the user is relying on the network based or local personal video recorder functions of the system to retrieve the version of the program that was recorded at step the program may be played back for the user using the network based or local personal video recorder at step . A playback arrangement of the type shown in or any other suitable arrangement may be used to play back the desired program for the user from the network based or local personal video recorder.

If in response to step the user chose to reschedule the reminder e.g. the user selected a watch later option to change the reminder to a later time because the user was not yet ready to view the program the user may at step be provided with an opportunity to interact with on screen reminder time rescheduling options of the type shown in . As shown in the user may also be presented with an on screen option to schedule an automatic recording operation in the event that the user misses the rescheduled program broadcast.

After rescheduling the reminder at step control loops back to step . When the new reminder time arrives the system may therefore display a new reminder for the user at step .

If an original or rescheduled reminder time arrives and the user is watching television or otherwise using user equipment the user may choose to watch the program that is the subject of the reminder at step or may cancel the reminder step . If the user directed the interactive television application to record missed programs e.g. during the user s interactions with the reminder set up options displayed during step or if the user selected a record option from the reminder display e.g. a record option displayed in place of archive option of the program may be recorded at step if the program was not already recorded at step . The recording of the program may be made by creating an actual copy of the program for the user in the user s personal area or local PVR or by creating a shared copy or a pointer to a shared copy that is accessible to one or more users in the system. If the recording is made using a virtual copy of the program step may involve updating an appropriate database or otherwise storing information that indicates that the user has been provided with a recording of the program.

Regardless of whether a real recording or a virtual recording of the program is created for the user the user s personal area on the network or local PVR may be updated accordingly. For example the user s lists of recordings that are provided by the interactive television application such as the list of may be updated to reflect the availability of the recording of the program. This type of on screen listing arrangement or any other suitable arrangement may be used to allow the user to request that a given program recording be played back to the user step . For example an arrangement of the type shown in described earlier in the context of archived recordings may be used to access user requested network based or local video recordings.

System housekeeping operations step may be performed at any suitable time. Such operations may for example involve deleting certain programs while retaining programs that users have paid to maintain in their personal areas or local PVR. The interactive television application may be used to provide the user with opportunities to extend storage e.g. upon payment of an additional fee or to otherwise assist during housekeeping operations.

Any suitable approach may be used for supporting the housekeeping operations described in connection with step step and step . Programs may be retained for the same length of time or for different lengths of time. The retention times for various programs may be supplied by the content owners associated with programming sources by the operator of facility or by any other suitable entity. An illustrative approach for using system in determining suitable retention times for programs stored on the network e.g. on server server or equipment at a service provider such as service provider is shown in . At step the interactive television application may be used to collect information on the desirability of retaining certain programming. The application may for example monitor how often certain programs are recorded or played back by the users in the system. The interactive television application may also obtain information from users in the form of electronic surveys or from external sources. This information may be used in determining the popularity of the programs for which copies have been retained. At step the information that has been gathered at step may be used to determine which programming to retain and which programming to delete. For example programs whose recording and playback request numbers fall below a predetermined threshold may be allowed to expire whereas programs with high recording and request numbers may be retained.

After determining which programming to retain and which programming to delete at step the interactive television application may retain and delete this programming as appropriate at step .

The approach for deleting and retaining programs that is shown in is merely illustrative. Any suitable approach may be used if desired.

The length of time that different programs are retained on the network may generally be different for different types of program. For example situation comedies which users may be interested in viewing if they miss an episode may be retained longer than news which becomes of less interest as time passes .

A particular television series e.g. ER may be identified as being of interest and episodes of that series or of that series on a particular channel may be retained longer than other programs.

A particular program e.g. the Super Bowl may be identified as being likely to be popular even in the absence of user request information and may be retained for a longer period than regular sports programming.

An advertiser or program provider may wish to ensure that a specific program or programs on a specific channel are made available to users for an extended period of time and may be charged for the privilege .

A program provider may specify that recordings of a particular program or channel not be made available at all by the network based or local personal video recorder. This service may also be charged for.

Programs may be designated as being of lesser viewer interest and may be retained for a shorter period of time.

Retention time may be based on program type. For example news may be retained for a shorter time and drama or comedy programs may be retained for a longer time. Similarly certain channels may be given less or more retention time.

In providing the functionalities described above the operator may interact with system e.g. through a computer terminal located at television distribution facility or linked to system through communications network . The operator or other suitable entity may specify specific programs series channels program categories and other attributes that the system may use in determining which programs to retain and which to delete.

With one suitable approach system may display a program schedule grid for the operator. The operator may select a specific program or channel. The operator may select other attributes from a list of attributes. The operator may also select combinations of programs series channels and other attributes. The operator may specify a retention time for specific programs and programming that match the selected criteria. This may be done by specifying an absolute number or value by specifying a number of hours or a percentage relative to other programming or by using any other suitable technique. The operator may also assign a priority to the operator s selections. In response the system may automatically allocate storage space e.g. on server server or storage on equipment at service provider for the programming based on their relative priorities.

The system may monitor which programs are played back with the network based or local personal video recorder and which programs have been recorded. Retention time may be based on the number of playback requests or other viewings across the network or across multiple networks . For example if no users request a specific program it may be removed from storage in a relatively short period of time. If a number of users request it the program may be retained longer.

If desired the program may be retained until it has not been requested for a predefined period of time or until the rate of requests falls below a predefined number per hour. Alternatively priority for program retention may be determined based on the rate of viewer requests for the programs. This priority may be used alone or in combination with an operator specified priority for some or all programs series channels categories and other attributes.

If desired a program rating service such as Nielsen ratings may be used to assess the relative ratings of recurring programs or of specific channel and time combinations. These relative ratings may be used to prioritize the retention time of the programs. If desired this technique may be used in combination with operator entered priorities and viewer request based priorities.

These techniques may be provided in combination with a viewer request based system. For example programs may be recorded based on specific viewer requests and may be recorded across a predetermined set of channels. The retention time of recorded programs may be based on a combination of viewer requests operator specified times and priorities and ratings adjusted priorities.

If desired some or all of the deleted programs may be moved to some of the user equipment devices . User equipment may also be used to record missed programs to handle the archiving of programs that have been automatically saved on the server or to perform any of the other video recorder recording or playback functions described above.

It is understood that the foregoing features such as reminders storing of programs archiving of programs and other associated features described above may used in conjunction with programs stored or archived on network based or local personal video recorders. It is also understood that video recorders may include either or both network based video recorders and local personal video recorders. These features may also be used for programs in systems wherein suitable combinations of network based and local arrangements are implemented.

The foregoing is merely illustrative of the principles of this invention and various modifications can be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention.

