---

title: System and method for automatically measuring the dimensions of and identifying the type of exterior siding
abstract: Methods, systems, and computer readable media are disclosed for determining a pixel-to-length ratio between a number of pixels disposed over a predetermined length of a reference object within an image of a siding sample and the predetermined length of the reference object. A first and second distance between respective first and second pairs of points within the image corresponding to respective first and second length measurements of the siding sample are determined, as well as a first and second number of pixels disposed between the first and second pair of points, respectively. Furthermore, the method, system, and computer readable medium disclose determining the first length measurement based on the pixel-to-length ratio and the first number of pixels, determining the second length measurement based on the pixel-to-length ratio and the second number of pixels, and identifying a siding product associated with the first and second length measurements.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09064177&OS=09064177&RS=09064177
owner: STATE FARM MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE COMPANY
number: 09064177
owner_city: Bloomington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150113
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 498 046 filed on Sep. 26 2014 which issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 977 033 on Mar. 10 2015 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 228 617 filed on Mar. 28 2014 which issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 885 916 on Nov. 11 2014 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present disclosure relates to siding identification and more particularly to measuring one or more dimensions of siding using a captured image and identifying products matching the measurements.

After sustaining exterior siding damage to a residence or a commercial building a client typically files a claim with their insurance company. The insurance company then assigns an agent to investigate the claims to determine the extent of damage and to provide the client with appropriate compensation. Agents have had long standing difficulties identifying the dimensions of the damaged exterior siding which often results in repair delays and or unnecessary expenses. For example if the dimensions of damaged siding are misidentified incorrectly ordered and sometimes installed replacement siding may not match the size of the existing siding to the satisfaction of the client. In this case the contractor may need to return the replacement siding reattempt identification of the damaged siding and install or reinstall new replacement siding.

Correctly identifying siding dimensions can be an arduous process. Generally an agent typically locates and removes a section of damaged siding from the building similar to the damaged siding to obtain a physical sample. The agent may need to take multiple measurements of the sample to sufficiently identify a type and manufacturer for a potential replacement. Using these measurements the agent tries to identify a given style of siding e.g. Dutchlap clapboard board and batten etc. by a measured face and profile size. This process requires the agent to travel to the site with measurement and or siding removal tools. Furthermore training is required for the agent to learn different styles of siding and how to properly recognize and measure the different types of faces and or profiles for each style. Even when the dimensions of the siding are properly measured properly identifying an available replacement siding product that best matches the dimensions of the sample is a significant problem.

Client device includes an image capture device a user interface a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU a memory a display and a communication module . In an embodiment client device is implemented as a user equipment UE such as a mobile device a computer laptop tablet desktop or any other suitable type of computing device.

Image capture device is configured to capture an image in a digital format having any suitable number of pixels. Image capture device may be implemented as a camera coupled to client device . Although image capture device is illustrated in as internal to client device embodiments include image capture device being internal or external to client device . For example image capture device may be implemented as a webcam coupled to client device and configured to communicate with client device . Furthermore image capture device may be implemented as a digital camera configured to transfer digital images to client device and or to siding identification engine . Such transfers may occur via a cable a wireless transmission network and or a physical memory card device transfer e.g. SD Card Flash card etc. for example.

User interface is configured to allow a user to interact with client device . For example user interface may include a user input device such as an interactive portion of display e.g. a soft keyboard displayed on display an external hardware keyboard configured to communicate with client device via a wired or a wireless connection e.g. a Bluetooth keyboard an external mouse or any other suitable user input device.

CPU and or GPU are configured to communicate with memory to store to and read data from memory . In accordance with various embodiments memory is a computer readable non transitory storage device that may include any combination of volatile e.g. a random access memory RAM or a non volatile memory e.g. battery backed RAM FLASH etc. .

Memory is configured to store instructions executable on the CPU and or the GPU . These instructions may include machine readable instructions that when executed by CPU and or GPU cause the CPU and or GPU to perform various acts.

Length selection module is a portion of memory configured to store instructions that when executed by CPU and or GPU cause CPU and or GPU to enable user interface to interact with a user. For example executable instructions may enable user interface to display one or more prompts to a user and or accept user input such as length measurements within an image of a siding sample. In an embodiment instructions stored in length selection module enable a user to select a particular length measurement within the image. For example a user may utilize user interface to specify a length selection by selecting two points within the image that denote a desired measurement length. To provide another example a user may utilize user interface to click hold or drag a cursor to define a desired measurement length.

Siding identification engine includes CPU and memory . Siding identification engine is configured to communicate with client device via network . Siding identification engine is coupled to siding product reference database and is configured to communicate with siding product reference database to store to and read data from siding product reference database . Siding identification engine is configured to receive one or more measurements from client device and to identify one or more siding products based on the one or more measurements by accessing matching measurements from siding product reference database . Siding identification engine is configured to send the identified one or more matching siding products to client .

Siding identification engine may be implemented as any suitable computing device. In various embodiments siding identification engine is implemented within a web server a laptop computer a tablet computer a smartphone etc. In various embodiment siding identification engine is implemented as an integral part of client device separate from client device and external to client device . In accordance with embodiments in which siding identification engine is implemented as an integral part of client device CPU may communicate with siding identification engine and siding produce reference database and network is not needed. Further in accordance with such an embodiment CPU and or memory may have a structure similar to and provide the same functionality as CPU and or memory respectively.

CPU is configured to communicate with memory to store to and read data from memory . In accordance with various embodiments memory is a computer readable non transitory storage device that may include any combination of volatile e.g. a random access memory RAM or non volatile memory e.g. battery backed RAM FLASH etc. . Memory is configured to store instructions executable by CPU . These instructions may include machine readable instructions that when executed by CPU cause CPU to perform various acts.

Siding query module and desired length data are portions of memory configured to store instructions executable by CPU . Desired length data is a portion of memory on which siding query module operates. Siding query module includes a measurement module that when executed by CPU causes CPU to calculate a length between two user specified points for example in terms of pixels or length measurement units. In an exemplary embodiment memory includes a reference object detection module configured to store instructions that when executed by CPU cause CPU to detect a reference object within an image of a siding sample. In an embodiment memory includes an image rectification module that when executed by CPU causes CPU to adjust a perspective of an image and transform the image so that the image of the siding sample appears to captured from a forward facing perspective. This embodiment may be implemented for example if the image of the siding was captured at an angle deviating from a straight on perspective.

In accordance with various embodiments any of siding query module reference object detection module and or image rectification module operates as a separately executable software application a plugin that extends the functionality of another software application such as a web browser an application programming interface API invokable by a software application etc. The instructions included within any of siding query module reference object detection module and or image rectification module may be compiled and executable on the CPU directly or not compiled and interpreted by the CPU on a runtime basis.

Siding identification engine is configured to access siding product reference database to provide siding product data to siding query module . Siding product reference database may store measurement data such as face size or profile size measurements for individual siding products that represent potential replacement candidates for the siding sample. The siding product data may include not only measurement data of a particular siding product but also manufacturer information product information e.g. a product number a product color a product name a product price etc. In various embodiments siding product reference database is implemented within client device or siding identification engine separate from client device or siding identification engine or external to client device or siding identification engine .

Although illustrated as a single engine in in various embodiments siding identification engine may consist of any number or group of one or more siding identification engines. In accordance with such embodiments each siding identification engine may be equipped with one or more CPUs and configured to operate independently of the other siding identification engines. Siding identification engines operating as a group may process requests from client device individually e.g. based on their availability and or concurrently e.g. parallel processing . Siding identification engines operating as a group may process requests from the client device in a prioritized and or distributed manner. For example an operation associated with processing a request may be performed on one siding identification engine while another operation associated with processing the same request or a different request is performed on another siding identification engine.

Generally speaking a face of a siding sample is a uniform flat portion of the siding which may include multiple faces. For example as shown in the face of the siding includes a portion of the siding that is substantially parallel with a mounting surface to which the siding is affixed. In other words the face of a siding sample is the portion is that is substantially plumb or substantially vertical when the siding is installed. The double clapboard style of siding sample includes a face length having the same length as profile length . Likewise the triple clapboard style of siding sample includes face length having the same length as profile length .

According to industry nomenclature the term profile generally refers to any contours formed in siding to create a distinctive style. For instance various styles of siding or exterior structure coverings may include board and batten clapboard double beaded traditional lap Dutch lap full bead half bead half rounds logs masonry panel shakes soffit beaded soffit flat panels soffit U groove soffit soffit V groove soffit vertical panels horizontal panels scallops etc. The profile of a siding style may be repeated throughout portion of the design over the width of the sample. For example as illustrated in siding sample a double clapboard style repeats the same profile twice and siding sample a triple clapboard style repeats the same profile three times. Furthermore the term face generally refers to any generally flat portion of a piece of siding. But the term face may also refer to any flat portion of a piece of siding that runs parallel with the siding mounting surface that may include a batten or any other flat portion of a style of siding in addition to a generally flat portion of a piece of siding.

To determine various lengths of different portions of a particular siding sample various embodiments of siding identification system utilize a reference object within the image of the siding sample.

Examples of reference objects may include peel and stick decals paper cardboard and or any other suitable material cutouts having any number of sizes colors and or patterns. Reference object has a predetermined height and width in standard measurement units such as inches centimeters etc. For example reference object may be a square shape and have a height measuring 3 inches and a width measuring 3 inches. As will be appreciated by those of skill in the relevant art s reference object may be implemented using any type of shape such as a rectangle a triangle a hexagon etc. that may be utilized in algorithmic pattern detection. To provide an example reference object may include a checkerboard or chessboard pattern as shown in . To provider another example reference object may include a border trim of a first color and a fill inside the border trim of a second color such as a white border with a black fill. Such colored patterns may facilitate detection of reference object on a wide variety of different colored siding backgrounds. Reference object may include any suitable pattern that is machine recognizable via algorithmic image detection line detection and or any other suitable image processing or detection techniques.

Since reference object may be implemented with lightweight materials such as decals an agent can conveniently carry a variety of different sized reference objects best suited to measure different lengths within a siding sample image. In other words an agent could use smaller reference objects for siding having smaller measurement lengths and larger reference objects for siding having larger measurement lengths. Since the reference objects are lightweight and easy to transport an agent can carry an appropriate number of different sized reference objects without being overly encumbered in doing so.

In accordance with an embodiment siding identification system uses one or more of image detection feature detection and or pattern detection techniques to detect reference object within the image. As will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the relevant art s siding identification system may implement any combination of a SIFT Scale invariant feature transform a SURF Speeded Up Robust Features a Hough transform and or any other pattern recognition edge detection corner detection blob detection ridge detection feature extraction or image processing technique to detect reference object . Siding identification system determines the height and or width of reference object in terms of any suitable units once reference object is detected and its boundaries are determined. In accordance with an embodiment siding identification system determines the height and or width of reference object in terms of pixels.

For example siding identification system could detect the chessboard pattern of reference object and determine that the height of reference object in the image is 500 pixels Likewise depending on the shape of the reference object siding identification system may also determine width of reference object in terms of pixels e.g. 500 pixels if reference object is a square shape . Once the height and or width of reference object in pixels is determined siding identification system may use the known height and or width of reference object i.e. the physical dimensions to calculate a ratio between the number of pixels i.e. 500 and the known physical length corresponding to the pixel measurement. This ratio may be referred to as a pixel to length ratio. For example if reference object has physical measurements of 2 inches 2 inches then the pixel to length ratio in the previous example would be

In an embodiment siding identification system uses this pixel to length ratio to calculate any other desired measurement of the siding sample within the image using a number of pixels associated with a desired length to be measured. Further in accordance with this example once the pixel to length ratio is determined a user selects a pair of points within the image represented by screenshot such that the length spanning between the pair of points is face length . Siding identification system then determines the number of pixels associated with face length such as 437 pixels for example. Using a pixel to length ratio of 250 siding identification system determines that the physical length of face length in this example is

The image represented by screenshot shows reference object affixed to face of siding sample although reference object may be positioned at any location on siding sample . But it may be preferable to execute additional processing steps to accurately determine the pixel to length ratio if reference object is not aligned parallel with a portion of the siding sample and or the image of reference object is not captured from a straight on perspective. As will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the relevant art s some image detection or line detection techniques require straight lines or utilize only horizontal or vertical lines. As a result it is preferable in some embodiments of the present disclosure that images of sample siding are measured at a substantially straight on shot perspective and or edges of reference object and edges of siding sample be aligned with one another and the horizontal vertical plane. Various embodiments of the present disclosure include correcting an image to compensate for perspectives and or alignments deviating from these preferences.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure include different levels of automation to obtain one more siding measurements and to identify one or more matching siding products. For example once an image of the siding sample and reference object are captured siding identification may implement an automatic system or a semi automatic system to measure portions of the siding sample and to identify matching siding products.

Embodiments of siding identification system implementing automatic siding product identification first determines the type of siding via image recognition techniques and or user entry. Once the type of siding is determined and a user enters the known physical lengths associated with the reference object siding identification system identifies edges of reference object and determines a pixel to length ratio based on the detected edges and physical lengths entered by the user. Siding identification system may utilize the face size and profiles corresponding to the identified style to identify face and or profile measurements via image recognition. Siding identification system may recognize edges in the image and determine a number of pixels associated with face length based on information obtained from the corresponding siding style.

For example siding identification system may compare one or more stored reference images representative of a determined or input siding style to the captured image and determine which portion of the image corresponds to one or more desired length measurements e.g. face and profile lengths . Once the appropriate portions of the image to be measured are identified siding identification system may determine a number of pixels spanning the measurements a corresponding length measurement using the pixel to length ratio and then query and return any matching siding products. In accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure a user is provided the matching siding products without user intervention once a siding image is obtained and the reference object dimensions are determined such that the pixel to length ratio is calculated.

Embodiments of siding identification system implementing semi automatic siding product identification may determine a type of siding via image recognition techniques and or user entry. Once the type of siding is determined and a user enters the known lengths associated with the reference object for pixel to length calculation desired siding measurements may be queried by the user. Alternatively siding identification system does not acquire a siding type in semi automatic embodiments and a user may specify only length measurements for siding identification however to better narrow queried results to provide fewer siding product matches it is preferable that a user specify a siding type in such embodiments to narrow the pool of potential matches.

Using as an example a user may utilize user interface to define a desired line length measurement within the image. For example a user may move click drag etc. a cursor to specify two points within the image the line formed between the two points corresponding to the desired length measurement. A user may repeat this any number of times to identify any number of length measurements such as face length and profile length for example. Siding identification system then determines a number of pixels associated with a corresponding length measurement and uses the pixel to length ratio to determine their associated physical lengths.

In accordance with both automatic and semi automatic embodiments siding identification system utilizes any number of user prompts at various stages to verify the accuracy of the pixel to length ratio identified edges and or length measurements siding type siding measurements and or identified matching siding products. In accordance with various embodiments siding identification system may prompt a user for a siding type verification of the siding type to retake the image to verify measurements identified in the image are correct if automatically detected verification of whether the image needs to be rectified and or aligned a display of the rectified and or aligned image if correction is required a verification of any siding measurements calculated using pixel to length ratios a verification of the identified siding products etc. Siding identification system may find reference object dimensions and prompt a user for their known values or allow a user to select and specify these measurements within the image. In such embodiments siding identification system determines a pixel to length ratio of one or more lengths of reference object without user prompts and or user intervention other than the entry of the physical dimensions of the reference object .

In accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure siding identification system may additionally send color information obtained from the image that indicates the desired siding product color to be matched. A color matching system that may be implemented for this purpose is described in Patent Application Ser. No. 14 176 734 entitled System and Method for Automatically Identifying and Matching a Color of a Structure s External Surface concurrently filed herewith which is fully incorporated by reference in its entirety. In accordance with color matching embodiments siding product reference database stores this color information and siding identification engine utilizes the color information together with the length measurements to further narrow the pool of identified matching siding products by color before returning the results to client device .

Additionally or alternatively embodiments of the present disclosure include image alignment techniques to align both the reference object and one or more edges of the siding image such that they are both aligned with a horizontal vertical plane. Using as an example the horizontal and vertical edges of reference object are aligned in the horizontal vertical plane. However a user may not initially affix reference object to the siding sample in this way. Furthermore the image may be taken from a straight on perspective but skewed such that the image is tilted with respect to the horizontal and vertical axes. Since pixels are typically square in shape edges of reference object and the siding sample taken at an angle will be represented by a different number of pixels compared to a number of pixels constituting a completely horizontal or vertical edge length. As a result if edges of reference object and the siding sample are not aligned with one another and the horizontal vertical plane the pixel to ratio calculations from a misaligned reference object and or skewed image may result in less accurate measurements.

Therefore to correct for such alignment errors embodiments of the present disclosure use image alignment techniques to compensate for image skew. In accordance with such embodiments line detection is utilized to measure the angles of lines within the image and then correct for skew via coordinate transformations. As will be appreciated by those of skill in the relevant art s examples of line detection techniques and transformations include Hough and Radon transforms. Once the alignment techniques are applied reference object and siding sample are aligned with one another and the horizontal vertical place. As a result pixel to length ratios and subsequent calculations are performed based on a true pixel representation in a single dimension increasing the accuracy of these measurements.

Method begins at block at which a communication device determines a pixel to length ratio between a number of pixels disposed over a predetermined length of a reference object within an image of a siding sample and the predetermined length of the reference object. This communication device could include for example client device as shown in and this image could include for example screenshot image as illustrated in .

At block the communication device determines a first and second distance between respective first and second pairs of points within the image corresponding to respective first and second length measurements of the siding sample. In another embodiment one pair of points and one length measurement is determined. The first and second length measurements could include for example face and profile lengths as illustrated in .

At block the communication device determines a first and second number of pixels disposed between the first and second pair of points respectively. In another embodiment one number of pixels is determined corresponding to one pair of points.

At block the communication device determines the first length measurement based on the pixel to length ratio and the first number of pixels and the second length measurement based on the pixel to length ratio and the second number of pixels. In another embodiment one length measurement is determined based on the pixel to length ratio and the first number of pixels.

At block a decision is made whether to take additional measurements. In accordance with an embodiment block may be skipped for example if an automatic identification system is used and a predetermined number of measurements are to be made. Block may be performed for example in a semi automatic identification system whereby a user is prompted after one or more measurements have been made to determine if more measurements are desired. If more measurements are to be made method continues back to block to obtain additional pairs of measurement points. If no additional measurements are to be made method continues to block .

At block the communication device identifies a siding product associated with the first and second length measurements. In accordance with an embodiment the communication device such as client device for example sends the first and second length measurements to another communication device such as siding identification engine for example. In accordance with such embodiments siding identification engine identifies the siding product and sends these identified products back to the first communication device.

The Figures and accompanying description provided throughout this disclosure have been provided largely in reference to siding samples. The embodiments as described throughout this disclosure are equally applicable to siding that is installed and to siding samples that have been removed from a structure. For example an agent may use any of the described embodiments to capture an image of a portion of installed siding that is undamaged and a reference object and identifying siding products are matched based on such an image.

The following additional considerations apply to the foregoing discussion. Throughout this specification plural instances may implement components operations or structures described as a single instance. Although individual operations of one or more methods are illustrated and described as separate operations one or more of the individual operations may be performed concurrently and nothing requires that the operations be performed in the order illustrated. Structures and functionality presented as separate components in example configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or component. Similarly structures and functionality presented as a single component may be implemented as separate components. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements fall within the scope of the subject matter of the present disclosure.

Additionally certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components or modules. Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code stored on a machine readable medium or hardware modules. A hardware module is tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more hardware modules of a computer system e.g. a processor or a group of processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In some cases a hardware module may include dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. as a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC to perform certain operations. A hardware module may also include programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware module in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the term hardware should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner or to perform certain operations described herein. Considering embodiments in which hardware modules are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the hardware modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where the hardware modules comprise a general purpose processor configured using software the general purpose processor may be configured as respective different hardware modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure a processor for example to constitute a particular hardware module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware module at a different instance of time.

Hardware and software modules can provide information to and receive information from other hardware and or software modules. Accordingly the described hardware modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiple of such hardware or software modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses that connect the hardware or software modules. In embodiments in which multiple hardware modules or software are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such hardware or software modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware or software modules have access. For example one hardware or software module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware or software module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware and software modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

Similarly the methods or routines described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or processors or processor implemented hardware modules. The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or as a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a SaaS. For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. application program interfaces APIs .

The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the one or more processors or processor implemented modules may be located in a single geographic location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or a server farm . In other example embodiments the one or more processors or processor implemented modules may be distributed across a number of geographic locations.

Some portions of this specification are presented in terms of algorithms or symbolic representations of operations on data stored as bits or binary digital signals within a machine memory e.g. a computer memory . These algorithms or symbolic representations are examples of techniques used by those of ordinary skill in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. As used herein an algorithm or a routine is a self consistent sequence of operations or similar processing leading to a desired result. In this context algorithms routines and operations involve physical manipulation of physical quantities. Typically but not necessarily such quantities may take the form of electrical magnetic or optical signals capable of being stored accessed transferred combined compared or otherwise manipulated by a machine. It is convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to such signals using words such as data content bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers numerals or the like. These words however are merely convenient labels and are to be associated with appropriate physical quantities.

Unless specifically stated otherwise discussions herein using words such as processing computing calculating determining presenting displaying or the like may refer to actions or processes of a machine e.g. a computer that manipulates or transforms data represented as physical e.g. electronic magnetic or optical quantities within one or more memories e.g. volatile memory non volatile memory or a combination thereof registers or other machine components that receive store transmit or display information.

As used herein any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular element feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. For example some embodiments may be described using the term coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

As used herein the terms comprises comprising includes including has having or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion. For example a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements is not necessarily limited to only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. Further unless expressly stated to the contrary or refers to an inclusive or and not to an exclusive or. For example condition A or B is satisfied by any one of the following A is true or present and B is false or not present A is false or not present and B is true or present and both A and B are true or present .

In addition use of the a or an are employed to describe elements and components of the embodiments herein. This is done merely for convenience and to give a general sense of the description. This description should be read to include one or at least one and the singular also includes the plural unless it is obvious that it is meant otherwise.

Upon reading this disclosure those of skill in the art will appreciate still additional alternative structural and functional designs for providing an interface for inspecting indoor and outdoor map data through the disclosed principles herein. Thus while particular embodiments and applications have been illustrated and described it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are not limited to the precise construction and components disclosed herein. Various modifications changes and variations which will be apparent to those skilled in the art may be made in the arrangement operation and details of the method and apparatus disclosed herein without departing from the spirit and scope defined in the appended claims.

