---

title: Virtual storage system and file encryption methods
abstract: A virtual storage system in data communication with a user computing device via a communication network and file encryption methods for encrypting electronic documents to be uploaded into a virtual storage system where the virtual storage system includes at least one processor which captures a data stream corresponding to an electronic document retrieved from an external system, to be uploaded to the virtual storage system, and creates at least one encryption parameter and encrypts the data stream captured using the at least one encryption parameter created. The virtual storage system further includes a plurality of redundant physical storage devices in data communication with the at least one processor and each configured to store the encrypted data stream corresponding to the electronic document.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09331987&OS=09331987&RS=09331987
owner: Virtual StrongBox
number: 09331987
owner_city: Cornelius
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150406
---
The present application is a Continuation Application of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 752 023 filed on Jan. 28 2013 and relates to co pending U.S. application Ser. No. 13 751 228 filed on Jan. 28 2013 co pending U.S. application Ser. No. 13 752 008 filed on Jan. 28 2013 and co pending U.S. application Ser. No. 13 752 043 filed on Jan. 28 2013 the entire disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to a virtual storage system. More particularly the present invention relates to a virtual storage system and file encryption methods implemented by the virtual storage system.

Virtual storage systems have become a popular alternative for storing files thereby eliminating the need to install physical storage devices and minimizing file storage costs. A virtual storage system is an online storage system where data is stored in virtual storage pools. The pools are hosted by third parties that operate large data centers. The third parties virtualize resources in servers and present the resources as virtual storage pools for users to store files for example. The virtual storage system is accessed through a web application programming interface API a gateway or a Web based user interface UI for example. A typical virtual storage system e.g. a cloud type storage system has several disadvantages which create security concerns. For example the storage location of the files stored therein may be unknown to both third party hosting companies and or users of the virtual storage system. In addition the typical virtual storage system can be easily accessed over a communication network e.g. the Internet using simple single factor authentication processes for access thereof. The typical virtual storage system does not encrypt files that are stored on their servers which makes the files easily visible to internal employees and hackers. Further the typical virtual storage system is not PCI Compliant PCI DSS a proprietary information security standard for organizations that handle cardholder information for the major debit credit prepaid e purse ATM and POS cards. Further once any file is stored on the virtual storage system they become property of the virtual storage system provider and are no longer user owned therefore the files can be used for other purposes such as data mining without user permission.

Online banking systems provide resources to enable users to conduct banking transactions electronically from a personal computer for example. Online banking transactions include monitoring accounts conducting money transfers applying for loans submitting loan payments etc. However users are required to visit the bank in person to conduct certain transactions such as depositing documents into a safe deposit box which is an individually secured container held in a bank vault for example. The safe deposit box is used to store valuable possessions such as jewelry currency marketable securities and important documents e.g. bank statements wills passports property deeds insurance policies photographs and birth certificates . Bank personnel typically open the bank vault with a key and a user is required to produce an assigned key to open the safe deposit box.

Currently online banking systems fail to allow users to store important documents electronically and also fail to allow users to retrieve view and share these documents electronically outside of the bank environment when desired.

The present invention obviates the above mentioned disadvantages by providing a virtual storage system that encrypts electronic documents retrieved from an external system e.g. an online banking system to thereby enable a user to store important documents in a known storage location within the virtual storage system.

The present invention relates to virtual storage system and file encryption methods implemented by the virtual storage system.

Further the virtual storage system of the present invention employs a multi factor authentication process for verifying user access rights via a specifically designed application programming interface API for example that can be installed at a user computing device thereby providing a maximum security level of file storage for the user.

The virtual storage system of the present invention is also PCI Compliant following a proprietary information security standard to allow storage of cardholder information for the major debit credit prepaid e purse ATM and POS cards.

In addition the virtual storage system locks each file with encryption as it is uploaded or copied and only the user owner holds the key i.e. access rights to retrieve the file thereby leaving ownership of the file with the user owner at all times and providing extra security protection from unauthorized individuals.

The present invention is a virtual storage system in data communication with a user computing device via a communication network. The virtual storage system comprising at least one processor configured to capture a data stream corresponding to an electronic document retrieved from an external system to be uploaded to the virtual storage system and create at least one encryption parameter and encrypt the data stream captured using the at least one encryption parameter created and a plurality of redundant physical storage devices in data communication with the at least one processor and each configured to store the encrypted data stream corresponding to the electronic document.

Further the present invention is a method implemented by computer system to effect the encryption of electronic documents to be uploaded into a virtual storage system including a plurality of redundant physical storage devices and in data communication via a communication network with an external system. The method comprising receiving input data for accessing the virtual storage system directly or indirectly via the external system selecting an electronic folder of a plurality of folders within the virtual storage system to receive an electronic document to be uploaded from the external system and selecting the electronic document to be uploaded initiating an uploading process for uploading the electronic document capturing a data stream corresponding to the electronic document to be uploaded while performing the uploading process and storing the data stream captured within the virtual storage system determining whether the uploading process is complete creating at least one encryption parameter when it is determined that the uploading process is complete and encrypting the data stream captured using the at least one encryption parameter created and storing the encrypted data stream captured within the virtual storage system.

Further the present invention is a method implemented by computer system to effect the encryption of electronic documents to be uploaded into a virtual storage system including a plurality of redundant physical storage devices and in data communication via a communication network with external system. The method comprising receiving input data for accessing the virtual storage system directly or indirectly via the external system selecting an electronic folder of a plurality of folders within the virtual storage system to receive an electronic document to be uploaded from the external system and selecting the electronic document to be uploaded initiating an uploading process for uploading the electronic document capturing a segment of a data stream corresponding to the electronic document to be uploaded while performing the uploading process and storing the segment of the data stream captured within the virtual storage system creating at least one encryption parameter and encrypting the segment of the data stream captured using the at least one encryption parameter created and storing the encrypted segment of the data stream captured within the virtual storage system determining whether the uploading process is complete and capturing and encrypting another segment of the data stream when it is determined that the uploading process is not complete.

In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of various embodiments of the present invention. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that embodiments of the present invention may be practiced without some of these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form.

Specific details are given in the following description to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. However it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. For example systems networks processes and other components may be shown as components in block diagram form in order not to obscure the embodiments in unnecessary detail. Also it is noted that individual embodiments may be described as a process which is depicted as a flowchart a flow diagram a data flow diagram a structure diagram or a block diagram. Although a flowchart may describe the operations as a sequential process many of the operations can be performed in parallel or concurrently. In addition the order of the operations may be re arranged. A process is terminated when its operations are completed but could have additional steps not included in a figure. A process may correspond to a method a function a procedure a subroutine a subprogram etc. When a process corresponds to a function its termination can correspond to a return of the function to the calling function or the main function.

Furthermore embodiments may be implemented by hardware software firmware middleware microcode hardware description languages or any combination thereof. When implemented in software firmware middleware or microcode the program code or code segments to perform the necessary tasks may be stored in a machine readable medium. A processor s may perform the necessary tasks.

The present invention as will be described in greater detail below provides a method for copying electronic documents e.g. electronic banking statements into a virtual storage system and system implementing the method. The present invention provides various embodiments as described below. However it should be noted that the present invention is not limited to the embodiments described herein but could extend to other embodiments as would be known or as would become known to those skilled in the art.

The user accesses the banking system by inputting input data including identification and log in information such as a user ID and password via a user interface UI of the user computing device . Once the identification log in information is received at a banking application of the banking system the banking system retrieves the user s banking information and displays the banking information via a display of the user computing device . The banking system is configured to receive the input data and provide the user with electronic documents e.g. bank statements in webpage format or any other format over the communication network . The banking system communicates via a communication network with a virtual storage system described in detail below.

The communication networks and include a wired or wireless network for data communication. The data communication across the communication networks and is achieved by using web services technology including for example Web services Description Language WSDL . The communication networks and may include any subsystem for exchanging data such as the Internet intranet extranet wide area network WAN local area network LAN Restful web services JAVAScript Object Notation JSON Extensible Mark up Language XML based communication network Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP based Services and satellite communication network. Further the communication networks and can be other types of networks such as interactive television ITV . According to one or more embodiments the communication networks and may be the same or different types of networks.

The virtual storage system is a user specific storage system which allows each user to have a secure access to their files stored within the virtual storage system . In addition the virtual storage system encrypts each electronic document as it is retrieved from the external system and only the user owner can access the electronic document thereby leaving ownership of the files within the virtual storage system with the user owner at all times.

According to one or more embodiments the virtual storage system includes a web interface for interfacing with the external system i.e. the banking system over the communication network . The web interface provides a secure connection to the virtual storage system . According to one or more embodiments the web interface is a specifically designed application programming interface API for example which performs authentication of the user or the external system e.g. the banking system at multiple levels. A secure connection is made between the banking system and the virtual storage system on a transport layer level for example. According to one or more embodiments a transport layer security TLS or secure sockets layer SSL cryptographic protocol may be employed to provide secure communication over the communication networks and . According to one or more embodiments the web interface is a web application programming interface API a gateway or a Web based user interface UI for example.

According to one or more embodiments the virtual storage system is PCI Compliant to allow storage of cardholder information for the major debit credit prepaid e purse ATM and POS cards. The virtual storage system further includes at least one processor for receiving information including requests from the user at the banking system and processing the requests such as storing retrieving and copying electronic documents. The virtual storage system further includes at least one storage server comprising a plurality of physical storage devices for storing files such as documents audio files photographs movies and images received from the user via the banking system . The virtual storage system acts as a safe deposit box for receiving and securely storing the files received from the user via the banking system . Although only one processor and two storage devices are shown the present invention is not limited hereto and may vary accordingly.

As shown in the virtual storage system includes a web interface e.g. the web interface however the present invention is not limited to this particular configuration and may vary accordingly.

As shown in in an alternative embodiment the banking system includes a web interface configured to interface the banking system with the virtual storage system over the communication network . The web interface functions in a similar manner as the web interface of the virtual storage system therefore in this embodiment the web interface of the virtual storage system is omitted.

As shown in in another alternative embodiment the user computing device includes a web application e.g. a web API for connecting to the banking system and the virtual storage system indirectly through the banking system . The web application is an internet enabled application for example that has specific functionality for the user computing device e.g. a mobile phone . The web application is accessed through a web browser of the user computing device and does not require downloading and installing thereof onto the user computing device .

As shown in in yet another alternative embodiment the user computing device includes a native application for connecting directly to web services i.e. the processor of the virtual storage system . The native application is directly installed on the user computing device to allow the user to gain direct access to the virtual storage system . The native application is a specifically designed API for accessing the virtual storage system . For example if the user computing device is a tablet the tablet may include a tablet API for directly accessing the web services of the virtual storage system . Therefore in this embodiment the web interface of the banking system as shown in the embodiment illustrated in and the web interface of the virtual storage system as shown in are omitted.

According to one or more embodiments the native application may include a multi factor authentication process to be performed at many levels to enable a user to gain direct access to the virtual storage system from the user computing device . The multi factor authentication process may include steps such as sending login information e.g. user ID and password information in a correspondence e.g. a text message or email to the user and providing a time based one time password system to the user via a third party.

According to another embodiment a single factor authentication process may be used to gain access to the virtual storage system via the external system e.g. the banking system since the external system and the virtual storage system communicate via a secure connection on the communication network .

It should be noted that the virtual storage system is implemented on a physical storage system such as that illustrated in .

As shown in the physical storage system includes a plurality of host adapters CHA disk adapters DKA cache memories CACHE shared memories SM and hard disk drives HDD connected with each other via common paths and connection lines . Each of the hard disk drives HDD is connected to two disk adapters for example using different connection lines . The host adapters control data transfer between host computers the cache memories and the hard disk drives . The cache memories temporarily store data received from the host computer and data read from the hard disk drives . The shared memories are shared between the host adapters and the disk adapters . The present invention is not limited to any particular number of host adapters disk adapters cache memories shared memories and hard disk drives and may vary accordingly. The physical storage system is one example of a physical storage system for which the virtual storage system can be implemented thereon. The present invention is not limited to a particular configuration of the physical storage system. According to other embodiments the hard disk drives HDD can be replaced with a flash storage RAM disks or rotated disk drives for example. The host computers can be the processor or a separate computer for example. Further the virtual storage system can be implemented on any type of storage system such as a network attached storage NAS a storage area network SAN or a distributed memory array.

According to one or more embodiments the physical storage devices of the physical storage system as described above can be configured in a RAID Redundant Array of Independent Disks configuration. Further the reliability of the data stored in the storage devices of the virtual storage system can be stored in a redundant manner in redundant data centers using mirroring remote copy or the like. The use of redundant storage devices enables the data stored to be duplicated thereby preventing data loss.

When a user accesses the banking system via a bank server the user can be automatically directed to the virtual storage system when desired.

As shown in the user computing device banking system and virtual storage system can be connected with each other via the communication networks and . According to one embodiment the user computing device may occasionally connect to the communication network while the banking system and the virtual storage system may maintain a connection to the communication networks and . Further in the user computing device and the virtual storage system are in direct communication with each other over the communication network .

According to alternative embodiments the virtual storage system can be included within the banking system or the user computing device as installable software.

Further as shown in the computing device includes one or more components for receiving and transmitting data over the communication networks and . For example a network adapter is provided for communication with one or more computing devices over an IP network for example for transmission of data such as financial data over a bank network. The network adapter may include instructions associated with processing IP network packets and cellular network packets. The components of the computing device are connected via a system bus .

In method an external system e.g. the banking system or the virtual storage system if accessed directly by the user receives input data from the user at the user computing device for requesting access to online account information e.g. banking information or a plurality of electronic folders within the virtual storage system . It is determined whether the user has access rights to the virtual storage system . In one or more embodiments if the user is accessing the virtual storage system indirectly through the banking system access rights of the user may have been established by virtue of the user s access rights to the banking system . Thus a verification process may be performed by the virtual storage system at the banking system via the secure connection over the communication network . Alternatively if the user is accessing the virtual storage system directly via the user computing device access rights of the user may be verified by performing a multi factor authentication process as discussed above.

At operation the user selects an electronic folder of a plurality of electronic folders to receive an electronic document to be uploaded from an external system. The user further selects the electronic document from an external system to be uploaded and the uploading process is initiated. From operation the process continues to operation where a data stream corresponding to the electronic document is captured while the electronic document is being uploaded. From operation the process continues to operation where the captured data stream is temporarily stored in a first location within the virtual storage system . The first location may be a common location within the redundant physical storage devices of the virtual storage system . According to one or more embodiments as the electronic document is being uploaded the data stream is dynamically captured and stored within the virtual storage system . According to one or more embodiments the data stream corresponding to the electronic document may be captured all at once or in segments of a predetermined data size such as 8 k or 16 k data blocks. From operation the process continues to operation where it is determined via the processor for example of the virtual storage system whether the uploading process is completed. That is it is determined whether the data stream is empty. This determination is made by determining how much data remains in the data stream. For example if less than 8 k of data remains in the data stream then it may be determined that the uploading process is completed. If it is determined in operation that the uploading process is not completed the process returns to operation where additional data stream s e.g. remaining data blocks if the electronic document is uploaded in segments corresponding to the electronic document is captured.

If it is determined in operation that the uploading process is completed the process continues to operation where at least one encryption parameter e.g. an encryption key is created corresponding to the file uploaded. According to one or more embodiments the encryption parameter is a security measure that transforms the data stream s captured into an unreadable cipher through various cryptographic algorithms. For example according to one embodiment the encryption parameter may be a 128 bit or 256 bit encryption key. According to one or more embodiments the encryption key may be less than 128 bit or higher than 256 bit. Further according to another embodiment the encryption parameter may be a Salt or nonce randomly generated to be used as an additional encryption parameter. The Salt may be an 8 bit or 16 bit randomly generated code automatically encrypting the password before it is saved to the storage device of the virtual storage system .

According to one or more embodiments the encryption parameter is stored in the web services e.g. processor internal storage e.g. storage of . Therefore the electronic document uploaded can only be accessed from a specific storage device of the virtual storage system .

From operation the process continues to operation where the data stream captured is encrypted using the at least one encryption parameter created. The process then continues to operation where the encrypted data stream corresponding to the uploaded file is permanently stored in a second location of the redundant physical storage devices within the virtual storage system . The electronic document is then viewable within the selected electronic folder of the virtual storage system .

The uploaded electronic document is then able to be viewed and accessed from the electronic selected folder of the plurality of electronic folders.

The electronic document is accessible only by the user at the user computing device via the banking system according to one embodiment or via the virtual storage system directly according to alternative embodiments. The electronic document upload encryption and format conversion operations are performed via the processor of the virtual storage system . According to one or more embodiments the encryption operation may be performed in one storage location of the virtual storage system e.g. a first data center and the uploading operation may be performed in another storage location e.g. a second data center of the virtual storage system . The present invention is not limited to performing the method of in a particular order and other variations thereof may be implemented. For example according to alternative embodiments the captured data stream at operation may be encrypted using a first encryption parameter created prior to temporarily storing in the first location at operation and decrypted and re encrypted using a second encryption parameter created prior to permanently storing in the second location at operation to provide added data protection. Another embodiment will now be discussed with reference to .

According to other embodiments of the present invention the file encryption process can be performed on separate data blocks of data stream captured corresponding to the electronic document being uploaded. Therefore in the event that the uploading process is paused or cancelled the uploading process may be resumed at any time without loss of captured data and the data stream previously captured is already uploaded and encrypted by the virtual storage system . is a flowchart illustrating a file encryption method according to one or more embodiments of the present invention. In the method the external system e.g. the banking system or the virtual storage system if access directly by the user receives input data from the user at the user computing device for requesting access to online account information or a plurality of electronic folders within the virtual storage system . At operation the user selects an electronic folder of the plurality of electronic folders to receive an electronic document to be uploaded from an external system. The user further selects the electronic document to be uploaded and the upload process is initiated by the user. From operation the process continues to operation where a segment of a data stream corresponding to the electronic document is captured while the electronic document is being uploaded. The segment of the data stream captured is then stored in the virtual storage system . According to one embodiment the data stream is captured in segments of predetermined data size such as 8 k or 16 k data blocks.

From operation the process continues to operation where at least one encryption parameter is created corresponding to the electronic document uploaded. The operation is performed similar to the operation of . Upon creating the at least one encryption parameter e.g. a first encryption parameter the process continues to operation where the segment of the data stream captured is encrypted using the at least one encryption parameter created and temporarily stored in a first location within the virtual storage system . From operation the process then continues to operation where it is determined whether the uploading process has been completed. If it is determined that the uploading process has not been completed the process returns to operation where additional segments of the data stream e.g. remaining data blocks corresponding to the electronic document are captured.

If it is determined in operation that the uploading process is completed the process continues to operation where a data stream to a second location within the virtual storage system e.g. a specific storage device of the plurality of storage devices is opened for receiving data segments associated with the electronic document and for permanently storing of the electronic document as a single continuous file. From operation the process continues to operation where an encrypted segment is read from the first location. From operation the process continues to operation where the encrypted segment read is decrypted via the processor . From operation the process continues to operation where another e.g. a second encryption parameter is created the encryption parameter created in operation is then used to re encrypt the decrypted segment and the re encrypted segment is appended to the open data stream and stored in a second location e.g. the specific storage device of the plurality of storage devices within the virtual storage system . 

From operation the process continues to operation where it is determined if there are more encrypted segments which were encrypted at operation requiring processing.

If it is determined at operation that more encrypted segments exists the process returns to operation where another encrypted segment is read from the first location and operations are repeated. If it is determined at operation that no more encrypted segments require processing the method ends. Thus according to the current embodiment all of the encrypted segments corresponding to the electronic document which are temporarily stored in the first location are decrypted re encrypted appended to the open data stream and stored in the second location as a single continuous document corresponding to the electronic document uploaded within the virtual storage system . The electronic document can be found within the selected electronic folder of the plurality of electronic folders.

The present invention is described herein in terms of block components screen shots and optional selections and processing steps. It should be appreciated that the functional blocks may be realized by any number of hardware and or software components configured to perform the specified functions. For example the present invention may employ various integrated circuits e.g. memory elements processing elements logic elements look up tables and others which may perform the functions under the control of one or more processors or other control devices. The software components can be implemented with any programming or scripting language with various algorithms implemented with data structures objects processes and other programming elements.

An exemplary file selection operation of the methods of will be described with reference to the screen shots shown in .

As shown in the screen shot of the virtual storage system accessed by the user via the user computing device . As shown the screen shot is implemented for example via a web page for network transmission. The web page may include standard HTML documents and various forms JAVA applets active server pages ASP common gateway interface scripts CGI extensive markup language SML dynamic HTML plugins etc.

The user can select and view electronic documents uploaded and stored within a plurality of electronic folders including a documents folder a legal folder a finance folder and a photos folder for example. In this embodiment the user selects the documents folder to add i.e. upload an electronic document thereto. The user then selects add file link to initiate a file selection operation as shown in .

In view of the above the present method embodiment may therefore take the form of a computer or controller implemented processes and apparatuses for practicing those processes. This disclosure can also be embodied in the form of computer program code containing instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other computer readable storage medium wherein when the computer program code is loaded into and executed by a computer or controller the computer becomes an apparatus for practicing the invention. This disclosure may also be embodied in the form of computer program code or signal for example whether stored in a storage medium loaded into and or executed by a computer or controller or transmitted over some transmission medium such as over electrical wiring or cabling through fiber optics or via electromagnetic radiation wherein when the computer program code is loaded into and executed by a computer the computer becomes an apparatus for practicing the invention. When implemented on a general purpose microprocessor the computer program code segments configure the microprocessor to create specific logic circuits. A technical effect of the executable instructions is to implement the exemplary method described above.

According to one or more embodiments a virtual storage system in data communication with a user computing device via a communication network is provided. The virtual storage system comprising at least one processor configured to capture a data stream corresponding to an electronic document retrieved from an external system to be uploaded to the virtual storage system and create at least one encryption parameter and encrypt the data stream captured using the at least one encryption parameter created and a plurality of redundant physical storage devices in data communication with the at least one processor and each configured to store the encrypted data stream corresponding to the electronic document.

According to one or more embodiments a method implemented by computer system to effect the encryption of electronic documents to be uploaded into a virtual storage system including a plurality of redundant physical storage devices and in data communication via a communication network with an external system is provided. The method comprising receiving input data for accessing the virtual storage system directly or indirectly via the external system selecting an electronic folder of a plurality of folders within the virtual storage system to receive an electronic document to be uploaded from the external system and selecting the electronic document to be uploaded initiating an uploading process for uploading the electronic document capturing a data stream corresponding to the electronic document to be uploaded while performing the uploading process and storing the data stream captured within the virtual storage system determining whether the uploading process is complete creating at least one encryption parameter when it is determined that the uploading process is complete and encrypting the data stream captured using the at least one encryption parameter created and storing the encrypted data stream captured within the virtual storage system.

According to one or more embodiments a method implemented by computer system to effect the encryption of electronic documents to be uploaded into a virtual storage system including a plurality of redundant physical storage devices and in data communication via a communication network with external system is provided. The method comprising receiving input data for accessing the virtual storage system directly or indirectly via the external system selecting an electronic folder of a plurality of folders within the virtual storage system to receive an electronic document to be uploaded from the external system and selecting the electronic document to be uploaded initiating an uploading process for uploading the electronic document capturing a segment of a data stream corresponding to the electronic document to be uploaded while performing the uploading process and storing the segment of the data stream captured within the virtual storage system creating at least one encryption parameter and encrypting the segment of the data stream captured using the at least one encryption parameter created and storing the encrypted segment of the data stream captured within the virtual storage system determining whether the uploading process is complete and capturing and encrypting another segment of the data stream when it is determined that the uploading process is not complete.

According to one or more embodiments a computer readable medium storing computer executable instructions that when executed cause a computing device to perform a file encryption method for encrypting electronic documents to be uploaded into a virtual storage system including a plurality of redundant physical storage devices and in data communication via a communication network with an external system is provided. The method comprising receiving input data for accessing the virtual storage system directly or indirectly via the external system selecting an electronic folder of a plurality of folders within the virtual storage system to receive an electronic document to be uploaded from the external system and selecting the electronic document to be uploaded initiating an uploading process for uploading the electronic document capturing a data stream corresponding to the electronic document to be uploaded while performing the uploading process and storing the data stream captured within the virtual storage system determining whether the uploading process is complete creating at least one encryption parameter when it is determined that the uploading process is complete and encrypting the data stream captured using the at least one encryption parameter created and storing the encrypted data stream captured within the virtual storage system.

While the invention has been described in terms of its preferred embodiments it should be understood that numerous modifications may be made thereto without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. It is intended that all such modifications fall within the scope of the appended claims.

