---

title: Cloud-based vehicle information and control system
abstract: Systems and methods for providing a cloud-based vehicle information and control ecosystem are disclosed. A particular embodiment includes: providing a first layer of a cloud-based vehicle information and control ecosystem, the first layer being in data communication with at least one network resource via a network cloud; providing a second layer of the cloud-based vehicle information and control ecosystem in data communication with the first layer, the second layer being in data communication with at least one mobile device; providing a third layer of the cloud-based vehicle information and control ecosystem in data communication with the second layer, the third layer including a subsystem for linking the third layer to at least one electronic control unit (ECU) of a vehicle; and causing, by use of a data processor, data indicative of a state change occurring in the at least one ECU to be communicated to a component in the first layer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09233655&OS=09233655&RS=09233655
owner: CloudCar, Inc.
number: 09233655
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150509
---
This continuation patent application claims priority to co pending U.S. non provisional patent application Ser. No. 13 671 455 filed on Nov. 7 2012. The entire disclosure of the referenced patent application is considered part of the disclosure of the present application and is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

This patent document pertains generally to tools systems apparatuses methodologies computer program products etc. for allowing electronic devices to share information with each other and more particularly but not by way of limitation to a cloud based vehicle information and control system.

An increasing number of vehicles are being equipped with one or more independent computer and electronic processing systems. Certain of the processing systems are provided for vehicle operation or efficiency. For example many vehicles are now equipped with computer systems for controlling engine parameters brake systems tire pressure and other vehicle operating characteristics. A diagnostic system may also be provided that collects and stores information regarding the performance of the vehicle s engine transmission fuel system and other components. The diagnostic system can typically be connected to an external computer to download or monitor the diagnostic information to aid a mechanic during servicing of the vehicle.

Additionally other processing systems may be provided for vehicle driver or passenger comfort and or convenience. For example vehicles commonly include navigation and global positioning systems and services which provide travel directions and emergency roadside assistance. Vehicles are also provided with multimedia entertainment systems that include sound systems e.g. satellite radio broadcast radio compact disk and MP3 players and video players. Still further vehicles may include cabin climate control electronic seat and mirror repositioning and other operator comfort features.

However each of the above processing systems is independent non integrated and incompatible. That is such processing systems provide their own sensors input and output devices power supply connections and processing logic. Moreover such processing systems may include sophisticated and expensive processing components such as application specific integrated circuit ASIC chips or other proprietary hardware and or software logic that is incompatible with other processing systems in the vehicle.

Moreover these processing systems in vehicles have failed to exploit the advantages of wide area data networking. Although some vehicles support the use and integration of mobile phones in some vehicle subsystems for voice communications conventional vehicle systems do not support the integration of wide area data networking or the use of information obtained from or sent to network resources.

In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various embodiments. It will be evident however to one of ordinary skill in the art that the various embodiments may be practiced without these specific details.

As described in various example embodiments systems and methods for providing a cloud based vehicle information and control ecosystem are described herein. In one particular embodiment the cloud based vehicle information and control ecosystem can be configured like the ecosystem illustrated in . However it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that the cloud based vehicle information and control ecosystem described and claimed herein can be implemented configured and used in a variety of other applications and systems.

Particular example embodiments relate to the communication of signals and information and the activation of procedures and or services between network resources mobile devices and Controller Area Network CAN buses in a vehicle. Embodiments disclosed herein generally enable the communication of signals between electronic control units ECUs of a vehicle a controller platform network based mobile devices such as mobile phones or mobile computing platforms and network resources such as server computers. Data signals communicated from the ECUs to the mobile devices or network resources may include information about the state of one or more of the components of the vehicle. In particular in some embodiments the data signals which are communicated from the ECUs to the CAN bus are abstracted by an automotive data abstraction and communication device abstraction device . The abstraction device connects directly to an On Board Diagnostics OBD connector that enables access to the CAN bus. The abstraction device converts the data signals from a vehicle specific format to a mobile device format defined by an Application Programming Interface API . The abstraction device then wirelessly and securely transmits the data signals to the mobile device and or a network resource. By converting the data signals to the mobile device format the mobile device may use the data signals without knowing the vehicle specific format. Additionally the mobile device format defined by the API exposes the data signals ECUs and other vehicle hardware and software in a standardized way thereby enabling multiple vendors or software developers to create mobile device applications that process the data signals. In the same way the API can expose the data signals ECUs and other vehicle hardware and software in a standardized way for the network resources.

Additionally a user of the mobile device and or a network resource can send a write or control signal from the mobile device and or network resource through the abstraction device to the CAN bus. The write control signal enables the user of the mobile device and or network resource to alter the state of one or more components included in the vehicle. The write signal is formatted in the mobile device format defined by the API and wirelessly transmitted to the abstraction device. The abstraction device converts the write control signal to the vehicle specific format and communicates the write signal to the vehicle. By converting the write signal from the mobile device format defined by the API to the vehicle specific format the abstraction device may interface with multiple vehicles. Additionally the mobile device format defined by the API acts as a common programming language enabling multiple vendors to write mobile device and or network resource applications that may communicate read and write signals to multiple types of vehicles independent of the model or manufacturer.

Additionally the abstraction device can include a certification module which controls access to some data signals and limits access to one or more components of the vehicle through verification of a user a mobile device application a mobile device a network resource a network resource application software on the head unit or other device or some combination thereof. By including the certification module the system controls access to sensitive portions of the CAN bus such as airbags brakes or Global Positioning System GPS location. This assures that a virus a rogue application or misuse by a user cannot damage the vehicle or injure the occupants while allowing an approved application access to any required data or device. Additionally the certification module allows the manufacturer to control dissemination of proprietary signals. Additional embodiments are described with reference to the appended drawings.

The certification module can be configured to grant various levels of access to the CAN bus and associated CAN messages based on a level of authorization associated with the application or device that requests such access. For example a fully certified mobile device or a mobile device having a fully certified app referred to herein as OEM certified can be assigned a full authentication level and granted access to native raw data signals on the CAN bus. In this way equipment used by manufacturers authorized service technicians etc. can be given direct access to raw CAN messages without abstraction by an API. In this way only OEM certified devices can obtain access to the raw CAN messages thereby giving vehicle manufacturers the ability to restrict access to raw CAN messages by devices that are not granted full certification. In contrast in the absence of the embodiments described herein there has been no certification in many vehicles regarding the devices that can be given direct access to raw CAN messages which has presented significant security and safety issues.

Moreover the certification module can be configured to grant more restrictive access to the CAN bus to mobile devices that do not qualify for OEM certification. For example a mobile device and or a network resource that is authenticated by the certification module at a more restrictive authentication level can be given access to higher level events mapped from the CAN messages as opposed to being given direct access to raw CAN messages. The authentication level might give only read access or read access combined with write access for only certain events i.e. those that do not pose a safety hazard .

As used herein the term CAN bus refers to any bus used in a vehicle for communicating signals between ECUs or components. The CAN bus may be a bus that operates according to versions of the CAN specification but is not limited thereto. The term CAN bus can therefore refer to buses that operate according to other specifications including those that might be developed in the future.

As used herein and unless specified otherwise the term mobile device extends to any device that can communicate with the abstraction devices described herein to obtain read or write access to messages or data signals communicated on a CAN bus or via any other mode of inter process data communications. In many cases the mobile device is a handheld portable device such as a smart phone mobile phone cellular telephone tablet computer laptop computer display pager radio frequency RF device infrared IR device global positioning device GPS Personal Digital Assistants PDA handheld computers wearable computer portable game console other mobile communication and or computing device or an integrated device combining one or more of the preceding devices and the like. Additionally the mobile device can be a computing device personal computer PC multiprocessor system microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronic device network PC diagnostics equipment a system operated by a vehicle manufacturer or service technician and the like and is not limited to portable devices. The mobile device can receive and process data in any of a variety of data formats. The data format may include or be configured to operate with any programming format protocol or language including but not limited to JavaScript C iOS Android etc.

As used herein and unless specified otherwise the term network resource extends to any device system or service that can communicate with the abstraction devices described herein to obtain read or write access to messages or data signals communicated on a CAN bus or via any other mode of inter process or networked data communications. In many cases the network resource is a data network accessible computing platform including client or server computers websites mobile devices peer to peer P2P network nodes and the like. Additionally the network resource can be a web appliance a network router switch bridge gateway diagnostics equipment a system operated by a vehicle manufacturer or service technician or any machine capable of executing a set of instructions sequential or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by that machine. Further while only a single machine is illustrated the term machine can also be taken to include any collection of machines that individually or jointly execute a set or multiple sets of instructions to perform any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein. The network resource may include any of a variety of providers or processors of network transportable digital content. Typically the file format that is employed is Extensible Markup Language XML however the various embodiments are not so limited and other file formats may be used. For example data formats other than Hypertext Markup Language HTML XML or formats other than open standard data formats can be supported by various embodiments. Any electronic file format such as Portable Document Format PDF audio e.g. Motion Picture Experts Group Audio Layer 3 MP3 and the like video e.g. MP4 and the like and any proprietary interchange format defined by specific content sites can be supported by the various embodiments described herein.

The data network also denoted the network cloud used with the network resources can be configured to couple one computing or communication device with another computing or communication device. The network may be enabled to employ any form of computer readable data or media for communicating information from one electronic device to another. The network can include the Internet in addition to other wide area networks WANs metro area networks local area networks LANs other packet switched networks circuit switched networks direct data connections such as through a universal serial bus USB or Ethernet port other forms of computer readable media or any combination thereof. On an interconnected set of networks including those based on differing architectures and protocols a router or gateway can act as a link between networks enabling messages to be sent between computing devices on different networks. Also communication links within networks can typically include twisted wire pair cabling USB Firewire Ethernet or coaxial cable while communication links between networks may utilize analog or digital telephone lines full or fractional dedicated digital lines including T1 T2 T3 and T4 Integrated Services Digital Networks ISDNs Digital User Lines DSLs wireless links including satellite links cellular telephone links or other communication links known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Furthermore remote computers and other related electronic devices can be remotely connected to the network via a modem and temporary telephone link.

The network may further include any of a variety of wireless sub networks that may further overlay stand alone ad hoc networks and the like to provide an infrastructure oriented connection. Such sub networks may include mesh networks Wireless LAN WLAN networks cellular networks and the like. The network may also include an autonomous system of terminals gateways routers and the like connected by wireless radio links or wireless transceivers. These connectors may be configured to move freely and randomly and organize themselves arbitrarily such that the topology of the network may change rapidly.

The network may further employ a plurality of access technologies including 2nd 2G 2.5 3rd 3G 4th 4G generation radio access for cellular systems WLAN Wireless Router WR mesh and the like. Access technologies such as 2G 3G 4G and future access networks may enable wide area coverage for mobile devices such as one or more of client devices with various degrees of mobility. For example the network may enable a radio connection through a radio network access such as Global System for Mobile communication GSM General Packet Radio Services GPRS Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE Wideband Code Division Multiple Access WCDMA CDMA2000 and the like. The network may also be constructed for use with various other wired and wireless communication protocols including TCP IP UDP SIP SMS RTP WAP CDMA TDMA EDGE UMTS GPRS GSM UWB WiMax IEEE 802.11x and the like. In essence the network may include virtually any wired and or wireless communication mechanisms by which information may travel between one computing device and another computing device network and the like.

In a particular embodiment a platform system and or a mobile device with may act as a client device enabling a user to access and use the cloud based vehicle information and control system via the network. These client devices may include virtually any computing device that is configured to send and receive information over a network such as network ecosystem as described herein. Such client devices may include mobile devices such as cellular telephones smart phones tablet computers display pagers radio frequency RF devices infrared IR devices global positioning devices GPS Personal Digital Assistants PDAs handheld computers wearable computers game consoles integrated devices combining one or more of the preceding devices and the like. The client devices may also include other computing devices such as personal computers PCs multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PC s and the like. As such client devices may range widely in terms of capabilities and features. For example a client device configured as a cell phone may have a numeric keypad and a few lines of monochrome LCD display on which only text may be displayed. In another example a web enabled client device may have a touch sensitive screen a stylus and a color LCD display screen in which both text and graphics may be displayed. Moreover the web enabled client device may include a browser application enabled to receive and to send wireless application protocol messages WAP and or wired application messages and the like. In one embodiment the browser application is enabled to employ HyperText Markup Language HTML Dynamic HTML Handheld Device Markup Language HDML Wireless Markup Language WML WMLScript JavaScript EXtensible HTML xHTML Compact HTML CHTML and the like to display and send a message with relevant information.

The client devices may also include at least one client application that is configured to receive content or messages from another computing device via a network transmission. The client application may include a capability to provide and receive textual content graphical content video content audio content alerts messages notifications and the like. Moreover the client devices may be further configured to communicate and or receive a message such as through a Short Message Service SMS direct messaging e.g. Twitter email Multimedia Message Service MMS instant messaging IM internet relay chat IRC mIRC Jabber Enhanced Messaging Service EMS text messaging Smart Messaging Over the Air OTA messaging or the like between another computing device and the like. The client devices may also include a wireless application device on which a client application is configured to enable a user of the device to send and receive information to from network resources wirelessly via the network.

In the system includes a vehicle an abstraction device and a mobile device . Generally depicts the communication of data signals from the vehicle to the abstraction device and to the mobile device . Some of the data signals can be produced at the vehicle the format of the data signals are converted at the abstraction device and the data signals are processed at the mobile device .

In a particular embodiment related to a cloud based vehicle information and control ecosystem vehicle may include multiple automotive components A N generally a component or components . The components include the individual apparatuses systems subsystems mechanisms etc. that are included in the vehicle . The components may include but are not limited to windows door locks oxygen sensors an ignition system windshield wipers brakes engines GPS and navigation systems a tachometer etc.

The vehicle may additionally include one or more electronic control units A N an ECU or ECUs . The ECUs are associated with the components . As used with respect to the relationship between the ECUs and the components the term associated with may refer to the component including an ECU the component being coupled to and ECU for monitoring a state of the component the ECU controlling the component or some combination thereof. As illustrated in one ECU is associated with one component . However this depiction is not meant to be limiting. In some embodiments one ECU may be associated with multiple components . Additionally or alternatively multiple ECUs may be associated with a single component . Additionally or alternatively some embodiments include ECUs associated with some subset of ECUs etc.

In a first component A is associated with a first ECU A a second component B is associated with a second ECU B and an Nth component N is associated with an Nth ECU N. The inclusion of the Nth component N the Nth ECU N and the ellipses is meant to indicate that the number of components and or ECUs are not limited. That is the vehicle may include hundreds or thousands of components and or ECUs for instance.

In the particular embodiment shown in the first ECU A associated with the first component may monitor the first component . The ECU A may communicate a state or a condition of the first component as a data signal to the CAN bus . For example if the first component A was the steering wheel the first ECU A may communicate the radial position of the steering wheel in real time to the CAN bus . Similarly the second ECU B and the Nth ECU N may communicate the data signals to the CAN bus regarding the state or the condition of the second component B and the Nth component N respectively. Accordingly the data signals may include but are not limited to positions of the windows positions of the door locks oxygen levels measured in the oxygen sensors ignition timing state of the windshield wipers a position of the steering wheel RPM of the engine and the like.

The data signals may be formatted in a vehicle specific format i.e. specific to a vehicle make and model. The vehicle specific format generally refers to the format of the data signals for the vehicle . That is the vehicle may be manufactured by a first manufacturer that may have a vehicle specific format for all its vehicles. Alternatively the first manufacturer may have a vehicle specific format for different models years option packages etc. Generally the vehicle specific formats of different vehicles are not the same. Thus a vehicle manufactured by the first manufacturer typically has a different vehicle specific format that a second vehicle manufactured by a second manufacture. Additionally or alternatively in some embodiments the data signals may be differential signals.

The CAN bus receives the data signals from the ECUs . Additionally the CAN bus may enable the components or some subset thereof to internally communicate without an additional computer system. Thus data signals received at the CAN bus may be available for download may be internally communicated within the vehicle or may be dropped.

In some embodiments the CAN bus may be coupled to a bus connector that enables access to the CAN bus . For example in this and other embodiments the vehicle may include an On Board Diagnostics OBD connector. The bus connector may be configured according to an OBD II specification for instance. In embodiments with multiple CAN buses the vehicle may include multiple bus connectors and or alternative bus connectors that enable access to one or more CAN buses . In most modern vehicles the CAN bus includes the bus connector located under the hood or accessible through the removal of a panel in the cabin of the vehicle . However embodiments described herein can be implemented by using connector that connects with CAN bus in any available way.

The data signals or some subset thereof may be communicated to the abstraction device . In some embodiments the abstraction device is a discrete unit that can be adapted for use with one or more existing or new vehicles . For example as explained herein the abstraction device can be embodied in a discrete unit that can be installed in an existing or new vehicle by connecting it to the bus connector e.g. an OBD II connector associated with CAN bus . In this way the methods and systems described herein can be easily used with substantially any new or existing vehicle that includes a CAN bus .

In other embodiments the abstraction device or elements thereof may be integrated into new vehicles or retrofitted into an existing vehicle. Under this approach the elements of the abstraction device are a substantially permanent system of vehicle . In this case abstraction device can replace or supplement the bus connector that may otherwise be present in the vehicle . In these embodiments the abstraction device may be a platform within a larger apparatus or system or may be an integrated circuit with controllers and or microcontrollers that manage or dictate the function of the abstraction device .

The abstraction device couples with the bus connector associated with the CAN bus via a connector . For example the CAN bus may have a bus connector e.g. an OBD II connector that is adapted to connect with the connector or the abstraction device may include the connector adapted to interface with the bus connector . Generally the interface between the connector and the bus connector includes a physical connection as well as an electrical interface such that the data signals communicated to the CAN bus may be further communicated to the abstraction device .

When connected to the CAN bus the connector may communicate the data signals to mapping platform . Generally the mapping platform may be configured to convert a data signal from the vehicle specific format into a mobile device format and or a network resource format defined by an Application Programming Interface API . Additionally in some embodiments the API included in the mapping platform may enable the conversion of data signals from multiple vehicle specific formats to the mobile device format and or a network resource format. Thus the mapping platform may not be specific to the vehicle . Some additional details of the mapping platform and the API are discussed with reference to .

Alternatively in some embodiments the abstraction device may include one or more controllers that may be configured to receive one or more data signals from the CAN bus . The controller may then communicate the data signals to the mapping platform .

In the example embodiment of the abstraction device includes a certification module configured to limit access to the data signal converted to the mobile device format by the mapping platform . In the example of the certification module determines that mobile device is authenticated at a level that permits the mobile device to access events mapped from the CAN messages by the mapping platform rather than accessing the native raw CAN messages. For instance mobile device can be a device operated by a driver or passenger of the vehicle with a mobile device application that is configured to detect respond to or initiate events mapped from the CAN messages by the mapping platform . The events can be limited to those that have been determined to be appropriate for the authentication level of the mobile device . In this way mobile device in this example is prevented from having full access to the raw CAN messages thereby substantially limiting the ability of mobile device to perform action that might damage the vehicle or put the passengers in danger.

In this and other embodiments the certification module may function through communication with a transceiver and a controller . The transceiver Tx Rx in may receive an identification signal from the mobile device and or a mobile device application on the mobile device . The communication of the identification signal is indicated by the arrow in . The identification signal may include one or more privileges possessed by the mobile device and or the mobile device application . For example the mobile device may be owned or operated by a mechanic who may have a specific privilege without authentication of the specific mobile device application or the specific mobile device application may include a privilege. Some examples of privileges may include one or more read privileges and or one or more write privileges. The identification signal may be communicated from the transceiver to the certification module . The certification module may verify or authenticate whether the mobile device and or the mobile device application includes a specific privilege.

The certification module may communicate whether the mobile device and or the mobile device application has an authentication level that permits access to events mapped by mapping module or direct access to raw CAN messages. In this example in which mobile device has an authentication level that permits access to events the certification module communicates whether the authentication level grants the mobile device specific privilege to the controller . If the mobile device and or the mobile device application do not include the specific privilege then the controller may prohibit conversion of data signals and or transmission of the data signals from the transceiver to the mobile device . If however the mobile device and or the mobile device application do include the specific privilege the controller may allow the mapping platform to perform a conversion and or the transmission of the data signals to the mobile device by the transceiver . The certification module may therefore restrict the transmission of the data signal through authentication of privileges assigned to the mobile device or the mobile device application .

In some embodiments the certification module may be able to authenticate or verify multiple read privileges. Different read privileges may correspond to different subsets of the data signals that may be converted by the mapping platform and or transmitted to the mobile device . For example the read privileges may include a first read privilege that prevents the transmission of a first subset of data signals and a second read privilege that may allow the transmission of the first subset of data signals.

Abstraction device can be implemented using systems that enhance the security of the execution environment thereby improving security and reducing the possibility that the abstraction device and the related services could be compromised by viruses or malware. For example abstraction device can be implemented using a Trusted Execution Environment which can ensure that sensitive data is stored processed and communicated in a secure way.

As stated above the transceiver may receive data signals that have been converted to the mobile device format and or a network resource format defined by the API. The transceiver may then communicate the data signals formatted in the mobile device format to the mobile device . In the communication of the data signal to the mobile device is represented by arrow A. More specifically in this and other embodiments the transceiver may be configured to wirelessly communicate the data signal in the mobile device format to the mobile device . The transceiver may include several configurations. In this and other embodiments the transceiver may include a wireless receiver to receive identification signals and or write signals from the mobile device another receiver to receive the data signals from the mapping platform a wireless transmitter to communicate the data signals in the API to the mobile device and another transmitter that communicates identification signals to the communication module and or write signals to the mapping platform . In some embodiments the transceiver includes a Bluetooth transceiver.

Additionally in some embodiments the transceiver may establish a secure channel between the abstraction device and the mobile device . In addition to or alternative to the secure channel the abstraction device may encrypt the data signals formatted in the mobile device format. The mobile device may decrypt the data signals. The inclusion of the secure channel and or encryption may enhance security of the data signals communicated to the mobile device .

The mobile device receives the data signals communicated from the abstraction device . In embodiments in which the transceiver wirelessly communicates the data signals to the mobile device the mobile device can include wireless capabilities such as Bluetooth Wi Fi 3G 4G LTE etc. For example if the transceiver includes a Bluetooth transceiver the mobile device includes Bluetooth capabilities. Generally the mobile device includes one or more mobile device applications that process the data signals. The mobile device application may be loaded downloaded or installed on the mobile device . Alternatively the mobile device may access the mobile device application via a network cloud or internet browser for example. The mobile device application may also be accessed and used as a Software as a Service SaaS application. The mobile device application may be written or created to process data signals in the mobile device format rather than the vehicle specific format. Accordingly the mobile device application may be vehicle agnostic. That is the mobile device application may process data signals from any vehicle once the data signals formatted in the vehicle specific format are converted by the mapping platform .

In some embodiments the mobile device application includes an ability to perform an API call. The API call is represented in by arrow A. The API call A may be an integrated portion of the mobile device application and may allow a user of the mobile device to request data signals from the vehicle . The API call A may be communicated to the transceiver which then relays the content of the API call A through the mapping platform which converts the requested data signals to the mobile device format. The requested data signals are transmitted to the mobile device . In other embodiments a remote procedure call RPC can be used to request data or invoke a function using an inter process communication that allows a mobile device application for example to cause a sub process or procedure to execute in a vehicle component or the abstraction device .

By processing the data signals the mobile device application may function better than a mobile device application without the data signals or may be able to provide functionality not possible without the data signals. For example the mobile device applications may include a navigation application. The navigation application may receive GPS signals as well as data signals related to a radial position of the steering wheel an angle of the tires a speed etc. of the vehicle . The navigation application may process the GPS signals as well as the data signals from the vehicle . Thus the navigation application may output more accurate navigation data than another navigation application that only processes GPS signals.

Additionally or alternatively the mobile device application may enable abstraction of data signals for aggregate uses. For some aggregate uses the mobile device application may sync with one or more secondary systems not shown . For example the mobile device may abstract data signals related to states of the windshield wipers. The mobile device may communicate with a secondary system that determines weather patterns based on the state of windshield wipers in multiple vehicles in a given location at a given time.

Examples of the mobile device applications are not limited to the above examples. The mobile device application may include any application that processes abstracts or evaluates data signals from the vehicle or transmits write control signals to the vehicle .

Referring now to a cloud based vehicle information and control ecosystem is illustrated. In an example embodiment the communication path between a mobile device and the subsystems of a vehicle as described above can be expanded into a cloud based vehicle information and control ecosystem that brings the full power of the Web to bear on enhancing the driving experience. In the particular example embodiment shown in the ecosystem can be partitioned into three layers an application layer first layer a framework layer second layer and a platform layer third layer . The application layer represents the most abstract and broad level of the vehicle information and control system. The application layer can include a vehicle information and control system which can provide several subsystems including a map or geo location based support subsystem a user or people communication based support subsystem a media e.g. audio or video support subsystem and a vehicle subsystem . These subsystems provide support for a variety of vehicle driver passenger and 3party applications such as geo navigation in vehicle control of media hands free communication monitoring and control of various vehicle systems and components convergence of social communities with vehicle operation mining of vehicle and or driving related data from a single vehicle or thousands of vehicles. The application layer can be in data communication with content sources via the network cloud directly or via one or more apps software application modules configured to process and serve data and services from a particular content source . The network cloud represents one or more of the various types of data networks described above such as the Internet cellular telephone networks or other conventional data networks and related network protocols. The content sources represent a type of the network resources e.g. server computers websites etc. described above. In an example embodiment the application layer is configured to provide information access and control to users from a variety of user devices via local or remote data communications.

Additionally the application layer can provide a user interface server to support human interaction with the various applications of the application layer. In a particular embodiment the user interface server can include a map or geo location based support subsystem interface a user or people communication based support subsystem interface a media e.g. audio or video support subsystem interface and a vehicle subsystem interface . The user interface server can be in data communication with the vehicle information and control system via the network cloud . The user interface server can also be in data communication with content sources via the network cloud .

In an example embodiment the map or geo location based support subsystem and its related interface provides information and services to support in vehicle navigation mapping routing location searching proximity alerting and a variety of functions related to geo location. One of the components of the vehicle can include a global positioning system GPS device that can produce a geo coordinate position of the vehicle at any point in time. Alternatively or in addition a GPS device can be available in a mobile device that is accessible to one of the components of the vehicle . The data from these one or more GPS devices is accessible to the geo location based support subsystem using the data transfer mechanisms described above. The geo location based support subsystem can use this geo coordinate position of the vehicle to correlate the locations of points of interest in proximity to the location of the vehicle. The locations of these points of interest can be obtained from a locally maintained database or from any of the network resources accessible via the network cloud . The geo location based support subsystem interface can present these points of interest to an occupant of the vehicle using the data transfer mechanisms described above. The occupant of the vehicle can select one or more points of interest and the geo location based support subsystem can generate mapping navigation and routing information related to the selected points of interest. The geo location based support subsystem interface can also generate alerts to notify the vehicle occupant of the proximity of a point of interest.

In an example embodiment the user or people communication based support subsystem and its related interface provides information and services to support interactions and communications between people. These interactions and communications can include in vehicle wireless telephone communications messaging texting social network updates e.g. Facebook Twitter etc. contact list management conferencing and the like. The user or people communication based support subsystem can also coordinate with the geo location based support subsystem to correlate the geo locations of people of interest and generate corresponding alerts. The people of interest can be determined or user specified based on contact lists social network profiles network resource searches and the like.

In an example embodiment the media e.g. audio or video support subsystem and its related interface provides information and services to support the search selection purchase and playing of audio video or other media selections in the vehicle. One of the components of the vehicle can include a media player which can receive content for playback from a traditional antennae source an optical disc source e.g. compact disc CD magnetic tape or the like. Additionally the media player can include a dock or physical interface for receiving a portable MP3 player cellular telephone or other mobile device. The media player can be configured to play or record media content from these mobile devices. Moreover the media player can include an interface for search selection purchase and playing of audio video or other media selections from a network resource. In this manner any media content available in the network cloud can be streamed or downloaded to a media player and played or recorded in the vehicle.

In an example embodiment the vehicle subsystem and its related interface provides information and services to support the monitoring configuration and control of vehicle subsystems. As described above the components of the vehicle can include a variety of vehicle subsystems and related ECUs. The status of these vehicle subsystems can be communicated through the abstraction layers shown in as described above. The vehicle subsystem can receive these vehicle subsystem status signals and process these signals in a variety of ways. Similarly vehicle control signals generated by the vehicle subsystem and its related interface can be communicated through the abstraction layers shown in as described above. These control signals can be used by one or more components of the vehicle to configure and control the operation of the one or more components .

Referring still to the framework layer represents a set of interfaces and control subsystems supporting the application layer and platform layer to which the framework layer is connected. The framework layer provides a lower level of abstraction for servicing a particular type of device such as a mobile device and the mobile apps therein. The framework layer can provide a user interface server to support human interaction with the various applications of the application layer via a map or location based support subsystem interface a user or people communication based support subsystem interface a media support subsystem interface and a vehicle subsystem interface . In one embodiment the user interface server at the framework layer can substantially mirror the functionality provided by the user interface server at the application layer except the user interface server can be implemented in a smaller footprint e.g. requires less memory and less processing power . As a result the user interface server may have less robust functionality or a reduced level of functionality with respect to subsystems of the user interface server and corresponding subsystems of user interface server . However the user interface server can still provide support albeit a reduced level of functionality for vehicle and or driver applications even when connection with the network cloud is interrupted intermittent or temporarily lost. Thus the framework layer is well suited though not exclusively suited to a mobile environment where uninterrupted access to the network cloud cannot always be assured. When access to the network cloud is available the full support of the vehicle and or driver applications can be provided by the components of the application layer. When access to the network cloud is not available or not reliable a somewhat reduced level of support of the vehicle and or driver applications can still be provided by the components of the framework layer without network cloud connectivity. As shown in the user interface server can provide a user interface for the mobile apps executing on a mobile device . Because the user interface server is in data communications with the components of the vehicle via the platform system described below the user interface server can provide any data or vehicle status signals needed by a mobile device app . Similarly the user interface server can communicate any control signals or configuration parameters from the mobile device app to a corresponding component via the platform system .

The platform layer represents a variety of components designed to reside on or with a platform system which is typically installed on or in a vehicle such as the vehicle described above. As shown in the platform system of an example embodiment can include a cloudcast subsystem a carlink subsystem a platform operating system and a virtualization module . The platform operating system can provide an execution environment for the platform system components and interfaces to low level hardware. The platform operating system can execute platform apps to process platform system data and or data captured from the ECUs of the vehicle. The virtualization module can provide a logical abstraction or virtualization of the resources hardware or software functional components installed with or accessible to the platform system . The cloudcast subsystem provides a variety of technologies and or interfaces with which the platform system can for example decode data and or a media stream for presentation to vehicle occupants. A detail of cloudcast subsystem in a particular embodiment is shown in .

As shown in the cloudcast subsystem of the platform system can include an HDMI High Definition Multimedia Interface module including a compact HDMI audio video interface for transferring uncompressed digital audio video data from an HDMI compliant device the source to a compatible digital audio and or display device in the vehicle. The HDMI module can operate in concert with the media e.g. audio or video support subsystem and related interfaces and to present high quality media to vehicle occupants. Similarly the cloudcast subsystem can include a Mobile High definition Link MHL for connecting portable electronic devices e.g. mobile devices to the platform system . A variety of other modules or components provided in the cloudcast subsystem can enable the transfer of data and media content to from the platform system in a variety of modes protocols and formats. In an example embodiment these other modules provided in the cloudcast subsystem can include a Bluetooth a wireless technology standard for exchanging data over short distances module a USB Universal Serial Bus module a WiFi a popular technology allowing an electronic device to exchange data wirelessly over a computer network module a SPTS Single Program Transport Stream processing module and a Droidlink module for communication with a particular type of mobile phone. It will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that other modules or other groupings of modules can be provided in the cloudcast subsystem to support particular types of mobile devices.

As also shown in the platform system can include a headunit subsystem which includes a headunit native human machine interface HMI used to convey information and media content to an occupant of a vehicle. For example the headunit native HMI can include devices or interfaces to devices such as conventional plasma or liquid crystal display LCD monitors heads up display devices projection devices audio sound systems and the like. Additionally the headunit native HMI can include devices or interfaces to devices for receiving input from a user. For example touch screens buttons softkeys keyboards or key panels voice command input systems and the like can be coupled with the headunit native HMI of the platform system . The map or geo location based support subsystem user or people communication based support subsystem media e.g. audio or video support subsystem vehicle subsystem and related interfaces can receive input from occupants and render output for occupants using the various components of the headunit subsystem . It will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that various HMI devices can be provided in the platform system of a particular vehicle. As shown in the headunit native HMI of headunit subsystem can also receive data and media streams from a variety of devices or sources including audio sources FM radio sources Radio Data System RDS Digital Audio Broadcasting DAB touch panel sources Hands Free Profile HFP A2DP and video sources such as a backup camera in a vehicle. RDS is a communications protocol standard for embedding small amounts of digital information in conventional FM radio broadcasts. Digital Audio Broadcasting DAB or DAB is a digital radio transmission standard. Hands Free Profile HFP is a Bluetooth profile allowing hands free kits to communicate with mobile phones in a car. The profile defines how high quality audio stereo or mono can be streamed from one device to another over a Bluetooth connection. For example music can be streamed from a mobile phone to a wireless headset hearing aid cochlear implant streamer car audio or from a laptop desktop to a wireless headset. A2DP can be used in conjunction with an intermediate Bluetooth transceiver that connects to a standard audio output jack encodes the incoming audio to a Bluetooth friendly format and sends the signal wirelessly to Bluetooth headphones that decode and play the audio. Bluetooth headphones especially the more advanced models often come with a microphone and support for the Headset HSP Hands Free HFP and Audio Video Remote Control AVRCP profiles. Conventional A2DP is designed to transfer a uni directional 2 channel stereo audio stream like music from an MP3 player to a headset or car radio. Thus in a variety of ways the headunit native HMI of the headunit subsystem can receive and render information and media content for an occupant of a vehicle. Similarly in a variety of ways the headunit native HMI of the headunit subsystem can receive input and command selections from an occupant of a vehicle. As described above in connection with mapping platform the platform system can also include an event Human Interface Device HID mapper. The event HID mapper can map CAN messages to corresponding higher level events. The higher level events can trigger communications to other parts and other layers of the system such as via a Bluetooth interface.

Referring still to the platform system can also include the carlink module . The carlink module of an example embodiment performs a function similar to the abstraction device described above. In particular the carlink module may include one or more controllers that may be configured to receive one or more data signals from the CAN bus . In this manner the carlink module provides a link between the platform system and the vehicle ECUs coupled to the CAN bus . The controller s in the carlink module may then communicate the data signals to the cloudcast subsystem and or other subsystems of the platform system . In particular low level state changes occurring in vehicle components can be mapped to corresponding higher level events using the event HID mapper of the headunit subsystem as described above.

As shown in the data and service requests exchanged between the carlink module the cloudcast subsystem the headunit subsystem and the mobile device can be transferred using a Remote Procedure Call RPC framework . Similarly as shown in the data and service requests exchanged between the platform layer the framework layer and the application layer of the cloud based vehicle information and control ecosystem can be transferred using a low overhead RPC mechanism . The low overhead RPC mechanism can also be used for transferring data and activating procedures between subsystems within each layer. The RPC framework and the low overhead RPC mechanism of an example embodiment provides a low overhead RPC mechanism configured to transfer data and service remote procedure requests in a more efficient manner than conventional RPC systems. Many of the state changes occurring in the vehicle components can be represented in one or more data bits. The embodiments described herein provide a lower overhead RPC mechanism well suited though not exclusively suited for applications such as capturing data from and controlling actions of components of a vehicle . The embodiments described herein provide a lower overhead RPC mechanism for performing remote procedure calls between subsystems using a reduced amount of data thereby allowing secure and efficient RPC using minimal communications bandwidth. The details of the lower overhead RPC mechanism of an example embodiment are described in a related patent application titled Systems and Methods for Low Overhead Remote Procedure Calls and filed by the same applicant as the present patent application.

Referring now to a diagram presents an example of a set of events that can be exposed within the cloud based vehicle information and control ecosystem wherein the events are determined to have an authentication level that grants access to higher level events converted by the platform system as opposed to having direct access to raw CAN messages. The set of events depicted in is just one example of the events that can be exposed within the cloud based vehicle information and control ecosystem . In this example the set of events are read only or are selected to have little or no risk of potential damage to the automobile or danger to occupants if the events happen to be accessed by viruses or malware or are initiated by user error. The set of events can be mapped from corresponding vehicle state change information as described above.

In some embodiments only a subset of events are exposed within the cloud based vehicle information and control ecosystem if for example certain subsystems or devices are determined to have a more restricted authentication level. In general the set of events are selected based on the authentication level of the subsystem or device the ECUs present in a particular vehicle make and model and the intended purpose and functionality of the subsystems or devices that are to be used within the cloud based vehicle information and control ecosystem as described herein.

Referring now to an example illustrates a mechanism for communicating a translation of raw CAN data to corresponding events that can be passed up and processed by higher abstraction layers of the cloud based vehicle information and control ecosystem . As described above the platform system of an example embodiment provides a mechanism configured to transfer data and service remote method or procedure requests at higher abstraction layers of the cloud based vehicle information and control ecosystem . State changes occurring in the vehicle components shown in can be transferred to a corresponding signal transceiver of CAN transceiver unit shown in . These vehicle state changes can be represented in one or more data bits. In the example embodiment shown in the vehicle state changes can be transferred from the CAN transceiver unit to event translator via an internal bus. The event translator can be configured to pack the vehicle state change information into the smallest unit of data needed to preserve the vehicle state change information. The event translator can be configured to select the best of several available modes for communicating the vehicle state change information to higher level processes of the cloud based vehicle information and control ecosystem .

The example computer system includes a data processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a non transitory machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory the static memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system . The main memory and the processor also may constitute machine readable media. The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device . While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single non transitory medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term machine readable medium can also be taken to include any non transitory medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the various embodiments or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such a set of instructions. The term machine readable medium can accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical media and magnetic media.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

