---

title: Systems and methods for facilitating interactions between consumers and individuals having marketable public recognition
abstract: Systems and methods are disclosed for processing transactions and associated dated. In one exemplary implementation, there is provided a method for processing information associated with transactions involving a product, wherein the product may comprise an experience, a physical product, and/or a digital product. Moreover, illustrative methods may include performing processing associated with a plurality of subroutines, such as a first subroutine for handling an experience, a second subroutine for handling a physical and/or a digital product, and/or one more additional subroutines associated with fulfillment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09495696&OS=09495696&RS=09495696
owner: Traina Interactive Corp.
number: 09495696
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150901
---
This application is a continuation of application Ser. No. 14 462 366 filed on Aug. 18 2014 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 123 073 which is a continuation of application Ser. No. 14 080 796 filed on Nov. 15 2013 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 811 794 which is a division of application Ser. No. 13 868 031 filed on Apr. 22 2013 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 756 110 which claim benefit priority of provisional patent application Nos. 61 675 790 61 675 795 and 61 675 801 all filed on Jul. 25 2012 all of which are incorporated herein by reference in entirety.

Appendices labeled Appendix A and Appendix B are attached hereto and incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

Implementations herein relate to systems and methods of processing information associated with networked systems including features and functionality related to allowing first users such as celebrities to interact and process transactions with other users such as fans of the celebrities.

Celebrities want to offer their work and or content directly to their fans without gatekeepers like networks publishers and record labels and other middlemen standing in the way preventing them from doing so or taking a large cut of their revenue they could realize from such offerings. The few mundane options that exist have so many drawbacks that they are typically not worth the time needed to employ them.

Fans that are passionate i.e. power fan users are willing to pay for exclusive content and opportunities from the celebrities they idolize. Moreover celebrities would like an easy and reputation preserving way to make money by selling content and experiences to fans but there are currently many barriers to doing this in a meaningful and efficient way. The lack of a platform marketplace to facilitate such transactions results in a great deal of pent up supply and unfulfilled demand. There is a need for systems and methods that solve such problems e.g. via implementations that involve features such as publicizing this opportunity registering and enrolling fans and users collecting revenue offering access to digital content and other opportunities directly to the fans users for a set price for instance a monthly subscription price and or delivering the content and opportunities on behalf of the celebrity.

Reference will now be made in detail to exemplary implementations examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a sufficient understanding of the subject matter presented herein. But it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. Moreover particular aspects described herein are provided by way of example and should not be used to limit the scope of the invention to these particular implementations. In other instances certain well known data structures timing protocols software operations procedures and components have not been described in detail so as not to unnecessarily obscure aspects of the embodiments of the invention.

Celebrities want to offer their work and or content directly to their fans users without gatekeepers such as third party networks publishers and record labels and other middlemen standing in the way preventing them from doing so or taking revenue they could realize from such offerings. Accordingly the present systems and methods allow celebrities via platform tools and computer network features and functionality as set forth herein to offer access to digital content and other opportunities directly to the fans users for a set price for instance a monthly subscription price.

Implementations herein provide a technology platform and or systems or methods that may make the process for exclusive subscription based digital media content between a celebrity and a fan centralized without middlemen according to some embodiments. This system provides a social middleware and a data platform by reducing transactional friction and providing transaction sharing security and privacy. It can also provide personal verification for fans users.

From a fan user s perspective there is currently a barrier between them and the person whom they admire. The fan user often desires direct interaction with these celebrities but security concerns can keep celebrities away from personal interactions and events that make that viable. Currently fans users must work hard to find memorabilia auctions or follow those they admire social media sites but the fan user must proactively search these out. Fans users also use entertainment news fan magazines and fan clubs but among other things these channels of information are not personal two way or unique. Fans users may also attend live events to meet or experience being near celebrities for example book signings concerts conventions sporting events and charity fundraisers are among the most popular ways fans users have an experience with their favorite celebrities. However all of these lack an element of uniqueness and exclusivity which this system can facilitate.

Computer networks as well as associated computer components and processing may be leveraged to provide such communication ability and direct exposure. The illustrative diagram of shows an example of such a network. For instance the service experience fulfillment database in communication with the overall system . The database may be configured in communication with the front end web sites and the vendor fulfillment administration components . The system and database may interact with both the front end web sites and the vendor fulfillment admin components.

The front end web sites are the forward facing interfaces for the customers and or fans . The vendor fulfillment administration is the rear facing part of the system that connects with the celebrities and or vendors . Thus the system and database allow the customers and or fans and the celebrity vendors to connect at both in an information processing context and directly. The system enables physical or digital experiences or services to be scheduled planned occur etc. without third party complications or intervention.

In some implementations vendors may upload experience based products which appear on the front end web sites . The customers and or fans may then find the experiences and or products on the front end websites and purchase these experiences and or products. The system may also generate information such as confirmation messages to both the customers and vendors . The system handles the financial aspects of the transactions and or bank interactions. Vendor and customer may optionally negotiate a schedule for the experience as well as a location for the experience be it either digital or physical. Customers and vendors can check the status of the experience deal by logging into the system or by receiving status updates from the system .

According to the features shown in and described elsewhere herein the present systems and methods may be configured with various inputs and outputs. For example implementations may process information received from components associated with entities such as customers fans users studios companies potential partners talent celebrities or their representatives. Other inputs and information processed therefrom may include data from payment related components data regarding items for sale or auction content coming in for submission information associated with cloaking and or security and or communications from anyone who wants access to the celebrity e.g. brands producer charity fans users etc .

After processing and or transformation via the systems and methods herein outputs as well as information or data regarding products and experiences coming out of the system may include experiences in both physical and digital form one or more interfaces for celebrities which allow them to approve or decline transactions personalized or customized content for fans users streaming services and portals or components for the creation of in house content among other things.

With respect to systems and methods herein configured as platform type arrangements implementations may include or involve a social middleware other data platform and or related components. Here for example such implementations may be configurable as a social middleware that combines social media and online commerce. For example a system may be configured as a stand alone platform that integrates with other social media platforms including features of focus and personalization keyed to the specific interests of a user set forth in the social media platform. Implementations may also be configured as a digital repository of opportunities for artists athletes and or other notable figures including features that assist these individuals in more fully utilizing their time and earning potential.

Further connection between celebrities and the public may be configured with a cloaking service technology that provides a measure of security and privacy for the celebrities. Such cloaking components may allow celebrities using the system to interact with fans users via social platforms without having to reveal or compromise personal accounts or information. Systems herein may also serve as a trusted marketplace platform that lies between the celebrity and the fans users.

The present system may also include a data platform that allows for information online communication and the exchange of opportunities between those using the platform whether they be consumers celebrities charities etc. Those opportunities may be syndicated and or archived on their behalf creating an idea bank that is accessible to multiple users.

As such implementations are provided where platforms or marketplaces that resolve unfulfilled demand are accomplished and or where celebrities achieve a reputation preserving way to make money by selling content and experiences to fans users. According to some embodiments for example systems and methods herein may resolve the underlying drawbacks via features of publicizing this opportunity over computer networks registering and enrolling fans users collecting payments and or processing or delivering the content opportunities and experiences on behalf of the celebrity.

Without the present systems and functionality fans or users would typically receive filtered content not from the celebrity themselves but from the people or entities that represent them. The content that is sent out directly from a celebrity via their own social media accounts is usually sent to many sources at once and may lack an exclusivity that many fans crave. Also agents and middlemen generally require a fee of their celebrity clients whereas the present systems may fill gap in a celebrity s opportunity lineup without such middleman influences.

There are multiple illustrative scenarios wherein the platform may be used. Some of these include the promotion of events charitable fundraisers memorabilia sales agents wanting to streamline the submission of opportunities to the celebrities they represent and situations where celebrities wish to have direct control over opportunities without the need for a middleman among other things.

Artists athletes and luminaries are accomplished people with time and attention that isn t fully utilized. Fame is an intangible asset but fame has a marketplace value when attached to the time activities and memorabilia of a notable person. The systems and methods described herein provide a central way to monetize a celebrity brand and a platform for trading on their famous names for commerce other than via Hollywood style agents and gatekeepers or other middlemen. The systems and methods described herein are also configured to provide alternative opportunities to celebrities than those that may be found by an agent or middlemen who may be unable or unwilling to find every opportunity given their own workloads and commitments.

Furthermore the systems and methods described herein can enable celebrities to sidestep the issue wherein an agent usually earns a percentage of a client s paycheck even when the client finds and negotiates his or her own deals. Not every deal needs an agent and sometimes a fan might be a better source for certain types of opportunities. For example a corporate CEO who is obsessed with baseball might want to invite star baseball players to appear at an event but an agent might dismiss the request as not being worth the time. Yet the retired player would have liked to take part in the opportunity.

Thus this system can help celebrities or their representatives maximize smaller and or alternate opportunities for local celebrities such as local sports stars or regional TV personalities this may be a significant method by which they can extend their income and connect with fans users.

Celebrities are looking for new unimpeded ways to engage their fan base. Existing social media platforms such as those on the Internet are useful for broadcasting comments and promoting appearances but are not conducive to interacting with fans users in a potentially lucrative way.

Some traditional methods of engaging the fan base and press are also not popular with celebrities. For example many celebrities dislike the press and find promotional tours exhausting. Currently these media tours are the best and only way for celebrities to promote themselves as a brand. There are also not easy nor accessible ways to promote as well as actively sell that brand when a celebrity doesn t have an upcoming film or TV show that s worthy of a sponsored junket.

Another problem with fan engagement is that it involves one way fan solicitation of the celebrity. For example fans users may have to line up outside of theaters send tweets post social media messages write fan mail and many other activities in the hope that the celebrity will pick them for an autograph special connection on social media etc. As such there is a need for systems and methods that offer more predictable options for fans users willing to pay to ensure that they get the attention they crave. Implementations herein provide tools to supplement and enhance the fan interaction with celebrities with a greater degree of certainty.

Also current methods of reaching fans users are limiting for celebrities. Many don t know that they can provide a meaningful connection to fans users via social media with minimal effort. Examples of under utilized tools are video chat email exchange micro blogging sites etc. However in the present implementations especially when combined with cloaking devices the privacy of celebrities can be protected while their direct interaction with fans users increases.

There are many other problems with current celebrity marketing. For example for celebrities who aren t as popular or who have a niche level of fame there are also very few good ways to make money off of that fame. For instance there may a retired sports star might own some market worthy memorabilia but that star may have had a relatively short athletic career and may not even have an agent. This can make it hard to find and tap into their existing fan base. Currently if the athlete wants to make money selling their memorabilia he or she might participate in a convention attended by fans users. However that athlete may have more fans users dispersed throughout the United States or the world who aren t able to attend such a convention.

Implementations herein utilize online solutions that enable the celebrity to sell memorabilia online and reach a wider audience than offline. But selling personal memorabilia on a website may not be optimal and does not necessarily enhance their personal brand or image. And because celebrities sometimes only sell to niche markets and because they may not have the tools to reach a large number of people within that market it s likely that they are not receiving market price for their time and or memorabilia. Systems and methods herein may increase and help to set the income they receive from selling this memorabilia or making personal appearances by streamlining the sales process for celebrities aiding in booking appearances and maintaining celebrity reputations.

The illustrative flowchart regarding fulfillment architecture of shows an example of how items can get fulfilled by the back end systems. The process of fulfillment may vary as a function of the type of product and the identity of the entity fulfilling the request. also illustrates exemplary order status IDs that correspond to each step in the process. Also shown are credit charging steps. In the process revenue is recognized when the item reaches the shipped step.

For example each process begins with a checkout in . The checkout either fails and is cancelled in or succeeds and begins the fulfillment process. If the checkout succeeds the order is placed and checked for fraud in . If the fraud check passes the checkout proceeds to fulfillment ready stage in . If the fulfillment ready fails the order is cancelled in . If the fulfillment is deemed ready the order proceeds depending on whether the order was for an experience or another product.

If the order is for an experience the process proceeds to charge the user in for example by charging their credit card. Next the prescheduled events proceed to pending events whereas the non prescheduled events proceed to a pending schedule and schedule negotiation until they are successfully schedules. After the pending event stage the system waits for scheduled time travel if necessary and then the event happens. When the event has taken place revenue may be recognized in .

If the order is not for an experience a determination may be made as to whether the vendor is to fulfill the order or not in . If the vendor is to fulfill the order the next determination is whether the order is for a physical or digital goods.

If the order is for physical goods the goods are picked and personalized in . If there is an issue in personalization e.g. an order cannot be personalized as specified the order goes back to the picked step until the order is correct and ready to proceed. A quality assurance QA evaluation is performed and after QA approval the physical goods are packed. Then the order price is charged and the carrier ships the goods. Finally the shipped goods trigger the system to recognize the revenue in .

If the goods are digital the digital goods are produced in and then a QA check may be performed on them. If there is an issue the digital goods are produced again and QA checks again until the order is correct. Once QA approval is obtained a charge can be issued for payment. A produced pending stage may follow until a period to wait for scheduled delivery time elapses. After this time the order is sent or posted. Finally the shipped goods trigger the system to recognize the revenue in .

If the goods to be shipped are not vendor fulfilled in and the goods are physical the goods are picked in . A QA evaluation may also be performed and if there is an issue the goods are picked again until QA approves. After QA approval the physical goods are packed. Then the order price is charged and the carrier ships the goods. Finally the shipped goods trigger the system to recognize the revenue in .

If the goods to be shipped are not vendor fulfilled in and the goods are digital then the digital goods are produced in and checked by QA. If there is an issue the digital goods are produced again until QA approves. Next if the QA approves the charges are applied. The produced goods are then pending and may have to wait for a scheduled time to send post the goods. Finally the shipped goods trigger the system to recognize the revenue in .

As such systems and methods herein provide transactions and monetization for celebrities by providing payment and collection services. The fulfillment platform with certain illustrative functionality shown in allows for order fulfillment for a variety of scenarios including but not limited to single orders or large group purchases such as a group of friends joining together to purchase a private concert. For a celebrity using this system money paid for their services can be available immediately via a dashboard interface.

Systems and methods herein may also include different levels of access for fans users according to some implementations. Exemplary levels may include a fee based subscription a set of privileges earned by actions tracked on the site and various combinations of the two. Between levels of free membership and all access paid membership there may be intermediate levels of membership with varying subscription rates and corresponding access to information and opportunities for the fan according to some embodiments.

Other aspects of systems and methods herein may include transactional sharing. Implementations may also allow for multiple types of content sharing and transactions. These include but are not limited to the selling of memorabilia and the use of digital online souvenirs as a receipt and keepsake for individual people such as fans users celebrities donors and collectors as well as organizations such as studios non profits companies brands and sports teams including players and owners.

Transactions performed via the platforms herein may include pay for content privileges features and implementations. Among other things systems and methods involving pay for content privileges functionality may serve as a publishing platform aggregation tool and or distribution channel enabling celebrities to offer exclusive content and a first look rights on special offers to fans users for a fee. For example fans users may subscribe to a famous theme or endeavor channel e.g. chefs channel in order to view a weekly live point of view broadcast of the activity or event of interest e.g. chef cooking a particular dish . Other exemplary implementations may include fans or users subscribing to another channel such as a famous snowboarder s channel in order to access an exclusive archive of trick tips and to have the opportunity to buy VIP passes and or meet and greets with the celebrity before they are made available through other channels.

Systems and methods herein may utilize a central computer based graphical user interface dashboard that can inform the fan subscriber of updated digital media content and prices according to some embodiments. Certain personalized options for example may include use of celebrity video including video shot by the celebrity and or augmented reality digital content. Such content may include point of view footage.

In some configurations this content is made exclusive in order to be sold to fans or users via a number of different pricing mechanisms. Illustrative pricing mechanisms include but are not limited by the following examples 

Freemium non paying fans users will still be able to access small excerpts of celebrity content and a limited selection of lo resolution photos while for a fee based subscription fans users are able to access more premium exclusive content including invitations to special events and high resolution photos.

Bundle pricing fans users are able to choose any number of celebrities to receive exclusive content from for one price. For example the fan may like to follow action stars such as Arnold Schwarzenegger whose subscription to their exclusive content runs for 19.99 month for example but they may get themselves a deal by purchasing access to exclusive content for Arnold Schwarzenegger Tom Cruise and Vin Diesel together for 49.99 for example. Such bundling may also be utilized e.g. for a fan that wants exclusive access to 8 bands but wants a deal for bundling them together rather than paying for access to each one individually.

Pay per view a subscribed fan may have access to a certain tier of personal celebrity videos from which they may choose for a price additionally a fan can buy a subscription for a certain celebrity s content which would then enable them to see a given amount of that celebrity s videos music or other content.

Premiercast the present systems and methods may provide fans users the opportunity to receive what is referred to herein as Premiercast a high concept broadcast feed direct from their celebrity which they will self select for free via their membership. One example of such broadcasting might include a personalized message from a celebrity featuring his or her message recorded just yesterday from on the set etc.

By means of such fulfillment architecture features in conjunction with innovative information processing herein systems and methods herein provide fans users and celebrities with improved ways to connect. For example a fan consumer can use the platform to verify celebrity presence and participation on the site. Another example may be the ability to unite with other platform based fans users to create group offerings for a celebrity such as asking Jennifer Lopez to perform at a local party. Still another example may be ensuring that requests for charity performances are actually delivered or ensuring that donated moneys are funneled to the right charity personnel. Further implementations may process transactions like arranging events such as a meet and greet having dinner with a celebrity for charity sending a 280 character message of inspiration or other message to a celebrity ordering a birthday voice mail message for one s mom from a favorite comedienne purchasing digital souvenirs which include an authenticated seal such as a digital coin which lets others know a user has had a certain celebrity experience purchasing a note or a tag from a celebrity for one s social media profile or site participating in a call or lesson with a hero and commemorating it on a social media site receiving a personalized video greeting from a celebrity having a music lesson from a favorite celebrity playing an online game with a celebrity providing more niche or local offerings to local celebs such as local chefs or sports stars having celebrities work on projects that are market specific generate reports and analytics for celebrities about certain markets voting on a celebrity and their reputation via a ratings system and participating in a virtual town hall meeting.

Properly handling and processing information to achieve improved reputation management functionality relates to other facets of the system according to some embodiments. Given that a celebrity s reputation is directly linked to his her personal brand reputation management tools are another resource that agents and public relations personnel may find useful. One of these tools may be the platform s ratings system where fans users may rate others that they have interacted with as linked to a variety of online services. Indeed such functionality provides a social incentive for behaving and delivering on promised goods and services. Systems herein may also be configured to preclude celebrities from interacting with a fan who has a poor online reputation.

Another reputational element included in some implementations of the platform s functionality is turning the system into a game like environment. Such systems may include game like incentives such as points medals trophies coins and progressive levels to reward users for engaging with the site and to keep fans users returning to interact with those they want to on the system platform. These incentives may also be displayed on a profile page so fans see which other fans are interacting with which celebrities and to garner a competitive urge to collect more incentives.

Charitable giving may also be an aspect of the system platform according to some embodiments. Many celebrities have charitable causes with which they are connected. The charities and the celebrities that support them are always looking for ways to increase awareness and donations. Here implementations may be configured to allow fans users to connect directly to their favorite star s charity in real time or near real time. Further a suggestion engine may be utilized to promote offers to specific users depending on their chosen interests. For example a fan who loves Betty White a noted animal activist might receive a message from Ms. White asking for donations to her favorite shelter. In exchange the fan might receive a digital souvenir commemorating the gift such as a thank you email from Betty White. The system platform may handle the payment exchange and support new projects or charitable causes from Ms. White. Further charitable opportunities may be directly submitted to celebrities or their representatives and digitally archived so that celebrities can access this info at any given time.

In another example present celebrity auctions typically only reach a limited number of off line fans. However there may be many more people around the world who would bid on the item when given the opportunity consistent with the innovations herein such as via the present network web and or online functionality. Thus currently such items rarely receive full market value bids. Charities may use such opportunity with implementations herein to become more visible regarding their auction items to maximize the time and the attention of the celebrity supporter. This functionality is particularly helpful to smaller charities that do not have large brand names but still want the support of celebrities to endorse their brand and raise awareness and donations.

Another problem for charitable organizations is that they can miss out on donated celebrity items in situations where the celebrity must donate 100 of the item experience or nothing at all. Such limitation excludes celebrities and offerings where the celebrity would be willing to donate a material percentage of proceeds but still wants to make some money for their effort. Implementations herein are configured to provide customized relationships of this nature and via these implementations 1 celebrities are provided functionality to customize their opportunities and 2 more charities receive more attention.

Additionally celebrities often want to start their own foundations but need help with the administrative aspects of running a charity. This system may host an umbrella organization that oversees and administers the charity on behalf of a celebrity. For instance someone might be able to donate to System.org EvaLongoria Foundation. Here then the present implementations may be used to handle the financial transactions of such a non profit project.

This system may also be used as a vehicle for charities to fundraise and drive traffic. These can be rated in an online rating systems as well. In addition any non profits need a consistent cash flow because they may only have a few big fundraisers per year thus making their cash flow uneven. Non profits also need general funds for operations. Implementations herein may also be used as a source for funding general administrative and overhead costs or similar aspects for which it is often difficult to raise money.

Additionally charities face challenges regarding distribution. They may have an email list and regular supporters but if they have a celebrity item to auction off on a visible site they may be able to reach a much wider audience in order to maximize bidding.

Systems and methods herein may also archive offers or fan based ideas for celebrity performances or work including a timeline. Implementations herein may be configured to utilized these to provide more niche offerings to local and regional fans users. Also to offer market tools for agents and managers. Additionally as discussed above to enable charities to smooth out their funding year round and stay visible. Implementations may offer celebrities and their teams an interface such as a control panel enabling them to post offerings for sale get alerts for tasks required to fulfill sales respond to offers and track the status of their listings. This system can add real time scheduling delivery and inventory to transactions for celebrities.

The GUI may include a product management button a history reports button an account button and a calendar button . A list of notifications may also be displayed for example including display for the scheduled events happening now section the physical items that need fulfillment now Tweets Facebook posts the scheduled experiences that need a time section the request a quote section and a messages section . The GUI may also include a fulfillment section and a marketing section . The fulfillment section may include physical items events Facebook and Tweets sections. The marketing section may include Tweets and Facebook sections.

Some examples of the ways a celebrity may use the platform include allowing a direct conduit to a celebrity for any individual or entity such as a fan or a movie studio or a partner that wants to provide them with work or a project using virtual opportunities to connect with fans users on social media and or enabling a celebrity to better manage their appointments and career opportunities. With this system they are able to do as much or as little offered work as they like. They are also able to search for types of projects which may be offered.

Additionally celebrities may manage their own career remuneration without paying fees to a middleman. They are also safer in their personal interactions with fans users due to cloaking mechanisms. They may offer content directly to a celebrity s fan base thereby bypassing middlemen and distribution channels and effecting a grass roots sales effort. An example might be a band s pre selling an album to dedicated listeners or fans. Celebrities may take digital control of tracking publication and distribution of anything to do with a celebrity s name or brand. They may publish celebrity content such as direct certain photos post on update on a social media site and share a positive movie review. Systems and methods are configured such that celebrities may steer multiple sites from one control panel and streamline the publicity process. Implementations may be configured to deliver a wish list to fans users or thank you notes to those with whom they have interacted. Celebrities may be provided functionality enabling them to donate all or some of the proceeds of a certain concert to charity and the giving process can be automated. Systems may also be configured to ensure that charity moneys based on appearances are delegated to the right personnel thereby reducing risk of scandal and misappropriation.

As celebrities sometimes have resources at their disposal this system can also feature anyone including lesser known celebrities which can flatten out the industry s payment curve by enabling many celebrities to better find their sales niche. It may also allow fans users through the middlemen gatekeepers. Systems and methods herein may initially leverage other people s content and then create their own content. They may also be configured to create and or involve a pay wall service within an already premium channel.

This system may offer curated and targeted distribution for exclusive content according to some embodiments for example via the GUI. In some cases this system may offer its own publishing tools. In other cases it may enable celebrities to use existing publishing platforms and tools such as YouTube and Flickr with additional paywall features provided by this system. For instance the celebrity publishes a video on YouTube but adjusts the videos setting so it is only viewable to paying members of their channel on the present platform. Systems and methods herein may be configured to do this by marking a celebrity video as private and embed it behind a paywall then automatically generate messages to fans users who will be enabled to pick their social circle of friends or other fans users who can pay for this content.

The scarcity of celebrity digital media content can makes it more valuable and exclusive thus helping maximizing the potential for more monetization opportunities. This system can provide the ability of certain limitations to a given celebrity s digital media content by either offering it for a limited time or by limiting the number of people who can download or purchase it. Also as an example a subscription to certain content can be limited to a fan user s Facebook friends a select ten of whom can be invited to purchase it such content might be a video a piece of music an invitation to a meet up online or special event or other forms of exclusive content.

The present content distribution functionality may enable content to be available world wide over a wide area network such as the internet. To this effect this system can create niche site areas for international celebrities as well as U.S. based ones.

Systems and methods herein may leverage existing publishing platforms and can publish exclusive content. Fans users can self select for free on this system s publishing platforms based on their personal opt in subscriptions. These include but are not limited to social networking sites such as FACEBOOK TWITTER TUMBLR WORDPRESS YOUTUBE PINTEREST INSTAGRAM VIMEO and any other publishing platform and each will notify a fan when their chosen celebrity publishes something. The user celebrities can select published content as Private while they embed or Share their content with this system s platform.

Celebrities can aggregate their exclusive content and create bundles for example 19.95 for three celebrity videos 29.95 for five. A free preview of the content can be included on the celebrity s pages.

Systems and methods herein may also provide celebrities with social metrics which will help them know and cultivate their fan bases according to some embodiments. Implementations of this system also provide celebrities with tools to develop their brand and offer exclusive access to content whether it be for free or for a premium subscription model. As systems herein are well suited for power fans celebrities may be provided with functionality to involve their fans in obtaining input from them to help determine who will go on tour with them or who should co star in a movie with them as in prizes or contests for example. Further systems may give power fans first access to celebrity live performance tickets as a way to create a continually meaningful connection and an important continuous feedback loop for celebrities according to some embodiments.

Many options may be utilized to connect with fans. Some of those options include social networking websites such as Facebook for example. Systems and methods herein may be innovatively utilized with such social networking sites e.g. by using the Facebook canvas as an iFrame by having a DRM player inside of an API component of the system.

The system platform may be configured as a stand alone site and or it can also integrate with third party social network websites and mobile applications. These configurations allow establishment of user preferences such as identifying a user s top celebrity idols or using the site s recommendation engine to maximize fan engagement. The recommendation engine may also integrate information from third parties and suggest items or donations that a fan is able to purchase or make from a celebrity wish list.

The system connection platform may be a stand alone website a Facebook app or an interface to other third party social media platforms. Other implementations may be applications such as an HTML 5 application which would provide access to the platform for those who are not able to download and have no access to the application.

A product types table which has a record for each product type may be included in the system. Implementations herein may utilize UI element features that present different UI fields and UI screens based on the product type of each product. Each product type in the table includes product type flag data which can be used to identify the product types within the system. Here for example various implementations and functionality may be achieved by performing processing as a function of data fields which represent the product type flags in the data records fields of the product types table . Also product type flag field definitions may be provided to define certain characteristics of each product type. For example product types may be defined as isPhysical or isExperience indicating whether the product is a physical product or an experience respectively. Product types may be defined as having a PresetTime or TimeNegotiable indicating whether the product e.g. an experience has a set time or has a time that can be agreed upon between the buyer and the celebrity vendor. Product types may be defined as LocationNegotiable indicating whether the product e.g. an experience has a location that can be agreed upon between the buyer and the celebrity vendor. Product types may also be defined as ContactInfoNeeded FacebookIdNeeded TwitterHandleNeeded RecipientNameNeeded and or CommentNeeded indicating whether certain information such as contact Facebook Twitter name or comment information is required from the buyer in order to complete the product transaction. One example involving a SQL realization of product types table functionality is set forth in Appendix A.

In addition other customization functionality may be controlled by product flags in the product types table for each product. For example an isPersonalized flag may indicate that the product is personalized to the buyer. BackgroundCheckRequired and or AgeVerificationRequired flags may indicate that additional information about the user i.e. a background check or an age verification is required to complete the product transaction. In addition further customization functionality may be driven by the order flags fields which are fields specific to each individual purchase of a product. For example an isGift flag may indicate that the product was purchased by the buyer as a gift for another party. One example involving the flags in the product types table is set forth in Appendix B.

When a product types table has been generated including some or all of the data described above it can be used in ordering celebrity products. For example the product checkout screens described in the context of above can present a variety of UI screens to a user. In the example of an optional UI screen A with variable fields is presented in . This screen presents options for a user to select such as the type of product to be purchased. Depending on which options are selected the system can present another optional UI screen B in or a required UI screen X in . For example screen B can present optional fields associated with the choice received via screen A. Once the fields in screen B have been entered the system can proceed to the required UI screen X in . Likewise depending on what is received via screen X the system can display optional UI screen C or required UI screen Y . After all required fields and or optional fields have been displayed and data has been received the order is placed in . Note that this sequence is an example only as other sequences of UI screens consistent with the innovations herein may be displayed to a user in the process of placing an order.

As a next step in this illustrative fulfillment process at one or more information gathering processes may be performed e.g. to make sure all the necessary information has been gathered from the customer or the gift recipient such as information to schedule the experience and or do a background check if necessary. Exemplary details of what may occur during an illustrative information gathering process are set forth in connection with . If this processing fails the order may be canceled at . After a successfully completed background check and or scheduling processes at payment may be effected e.g. the customer s credit card may be charged settled to collect the revenue for experiences. Here the credit card may have been previously been authorized for the amount of the purchase so unless the authorization had expired the credit card charge settle will succeed. If the original authorization has expired and the credit card was not able to be authorized again then the order may be cancelled at this point due to the inability to collect payment. If the money was successfully collected an event summary email may then be sent at summarizing what will happen and when. If the experience is not a gift an experience memento ticket may be sent to the buyer at .

After such optional processing is performed final logistics such as final location logistics may be determined and entered into the system at . In some cases for example the experience may happen at a location selected by the customer or giftee. In other cases it will happen at the location chosen by the luminary vendor. In either case the final logistics information will be entered into the system so they can be communicated to the customer and or the celebrity vendor as in steps via various email or other communication s such as the following.

For example implementations herein may send out up to two additional reminder emails the first of which will be sent 1 week before the experience at . If there s greater than 1 week until the experience the system may wait until there is just 1 week before the experience to send the reminder logistics email at . Another reminder logistics email may be sent closer in time as well such as 1 day before the experience unless there isn t more than a day before the experience. Finally the experience that the customer purchased occurs and the presently described illustrative experience fulfillment process is complete.

Additionally there is a need for a fan to verify that an online celebrity or their piece of memorabilia is authentic. Authentication of items signed by notable people affects the value of the item as well as the reputation of all involved in its sale. Furthermore there are some challenges to the process of purchasing and consuming celebrity related content. Consumers have an expectation that they can purchase content on demand however region locking and release window technologies often impede this process even if consumers will buy content legally when available but will resort to pirating if not legally available. There is a definite need for a trusted verification source as well as a digital record of the transaction.

Other example uses for this system involve using Security APIs As a Component of the System such as implementations that include video audio fingerprinting.

Further systems and methods herein may involve various features related to security according to some embodiments. For example implementations are configured to handle security problems in a multitude of ways including watermarking to ensure paywall integrity and Digital Rights Management DRM . Such security may be useful for celebrities to protect their online content and identities.

Methods here may also involve verification of the various opportunities according to some embodiments. Here implementations may be configured with features to protect the reputation of the celebrity and or the authenticity of the good service or offering things that celebrities are concerned about. Such system verification processes may ensure that opportunities for celebrities are legitimate and backed by whom they assert they are backed. Functionality may also be provided to assure fans users that the celebrity experience is authentic. Further implementations may be configured with a ratings system for both fans users and celebrities to help provide measures of assurance for people on the platform according to some embodiments. Such implementations may even incorporate information from other social media sites to make it more interactive.

Referring to the illustrative processing shown in implementations here may first check to see if the products in this order require scheduling or a background check at . If not processing may proceed through steps and to the end after which the system continues at step in .

If scheduling or a background check is needed and hasn t already been accomplished then processing may be performed to reach out to the customer to collect this information at . Such processing may result in the initiation of various communications such as emails phone calls and or other methods or functionality. Further illustrative processing may be performed at if a response from the customer is not received within a certain time period such as 7 days. Here if the item ordered is a gift then implementations may follow up with an email to the giftee at as well as with an email to the buyer at . Such communications are optional and serve as additional prompts to get the information needed to fulfill the experience item. Turning back to the illustrated processing implementations may wait up to a set period such as 7 days for a response at . If no response is received attempts to contact the customer and or giftee may be escalated at . Such escalation may include functionality in the form performing processing to initiate phone calls or other communications by a customer service concierge component or individual. Again implementations may wait another set period such as 7 days at and if a response is still not received additional processing may be performed. For example implementation may wait another period of time such as 1 year for a non gift order after which the order will be cancelled at . For a gifted order implementations may wait almost indefinitely for a response at .

If at any point in the process a response is received from the customer then the various information needed from the customer may be collected at . If a background check is required information is collected from the customer or from the giftee in case of a gift. If scheduling is required information is collected about the customer s or giftee s availability. Here for example implementations may be configured to collect at least 3 days and times that the customer is available. Once the needed information is collected from the customer the system accesses information regarding subsequent processing to be performed at . For example if scheduling is required processing may be performed to contact the luminary vendor to see if any of the dates and times that the customer is available match up with the availability of the luminary vendor at . Implementations may be configured such that the customer or giftee cannot just specify a time that they want the experience to happen because the luminary vendor must also be available for the experience to occur. If any of the times specified by the customer are acceptable to the luminary vendor then the agreed upon date and time is confirmed and processed by the system at . If the luminary vendor is not available at any of the times specified by the customer then implementations may perform processing to allow the luminary vendor to enter several dates and times into the system as to when the luminary vendor is available at .

If at a background check is required then the background check processing processes may be started at . The results of the background check once complete will get entered into the system for processing at . The system may then evaluate if scheduling background check process had completed successfully at . If the celebrity vendor had not agreed with the customer available dates but had specified alternatives then the scheduling problem is deemed fixable and the system loops back to contact the customer or giftee this time communicating to the customer the alternative times that the vendor is available as per step and onward. It is possible that the customer and luminary vendor cannot find a mutually agreeable time to schedule in which case the order is canceled at . If the background check fails outright the order may also be cancelled . In some cases a background check may end up in a marginal state that needs further evaluation. In these cases various processing may be performed as to how to proceed. In these marginal cases processing might be performed to reach out to the customer again e.g. to gather additional information to help decide whether to accept or cancel the order. If all the checks pass successfully the scheduling and background check processes are flagged as complete at and the process proceeds from step in to step .

Additionally the example webpage has many image spaces which can be loaded with images to provide additional advertising of various experiences or offerings available. Details about each Celebration offering may be displayed using areas or buttons on the page. In some examples the user can roll over and click on an area or button to view a pop up window with additional information about that particular experience. A pop up window not shown may be included to allow the user to view videos images and text within it describing it in more detail and possible sub options available. Further the user can click the show price buttons to see what the cost of that experience may be. Other features on the page allow users to send messages to the celebrity and suggest your own dream . Also on this example page is a logo of a charity that this celebrity supports.

Overall one illustrative implementation encompassing an array of the above features may be characterized as a method of processing data comprising processing with a front end module in communication with a processor product data from a first database performing processing with the front end module of information for display at least some of the product data processing with a checkout module in communication with a processor and the front end module a checkout of the product the product comprising an experience a physical product and or a digital product and receiving with a backend module in communication with a processor and the checkout module data associated with the checkout of the product from the checkout module. Moreover the method includes when the product comprises an experience determining with the backend module whether the product has been purchased as a gift when the product has been purchased as gift sending with the backend module a gift ticket to a recipient processing with the backend module a charge associated with the product when the product has not been purchased as a gift sending with the backend module a ticket to the user determining with the backend module a time and place associated with the product sending with the backend module a reminder to the user and or the recipient at a time before the time associated with the product and receiving with the backend module a notification that the experience has taken place and when the product comprises a physical product and or a digital product determining with the backend module whether the product will be fulfilled by a vendor or by the backend module when the product will be fulfilled by the vendor sending with the backend module information associated with the product to the vendor and receiving with the backend module a notification that the product has been fulfilled when the product will be fulfilled by the backend module fulfilling with the backend module the product and processing with the backend module a charge associated with the product after the product has been fulfilled. Further the product may be associated with product data comprising one or more of a plurality of product types one or more of a plurality of product type flags which describe one or more of the plurality of product types and one or more of a plurality of product type flag field definitions which define a characteristic of one or more of the plurality of product type flags.

Systems and methods herein implemented via stand alone webpage configuration s may not be appropriate for all celebrities. In these cases implementations may be configured to produce a white label version of the platform. For example celebrity may have a large fan base but may also need assistance in order to maintain and not damage their brand. Conversely systems and methods may also be configurable to create custom platforms and functionality for other celebrities such as a George Clooney or Angelina Jolie.

The innovations herein may be implemented via one or more components systems servers appliances other subcomponents or distributed between such elements. When implemented as a system such systems may include an or involve inter alia components such as software modules general purpose CPU RAM etc. found in general purpose computers and or FPGAs and or ASICs found in more specialized computing devices. In implementations where the innovations reside on a server such a server may include or involve components such as CPU RAM etc. such as those found in general purpose computers.

Additionally the innovations herein may be achieved via implementations with disparate or entirely different software hardware and or firmware components beyond that set forth above. With regard to such other components e.g. software processing components etc. and or computer readable media associated with or embodying the present inventions for example aspects of the innovations herein may be implemented consistent with numerous general purpose or special purpose computing systems or configurations. Various exemplary computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with the innovations herein may include but are not limited to software or other components within or embodied on personal computers servers or server computing devices such as routing connectivity components hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes consumer electronic devices network PCs other existing computer platforms distributed computing environments that include one or more of the above systems or devices etc.

In some instances aspects of the innovations herein may be achieved via or performed by logic and or logic instructions including program modules executed in association with such components or circuitry for example. In general program modules may include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular instructions herein. The inventions may also be practiced in the context of distributed software computer or circuit settings where circuitry is connected via communication buses circuitry or links. In distributed settings control instructions may occur from both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

Innovative software circuitry and components herein may also include and or utilize one or more type of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that is resident on associable with or can be accessed by such circuits and or computing components. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and can accessed by computing component. Communication media may comprise computer readable instructions data structures program modules and or other components. Further communication media may include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection however no media of any such type herein includes transitory media. Combinations of the any of the above are also included within the scope of computer readable media.

In the present description the terms component module device etc. may refer to any type of logical or functional software elements circuits blocks and or processes that may be implemented in a variety of ways. For example the functions of various circuits and or blocks can be combined with one another into any other number of modules. Each module may even be implemented as a software program stored on a tangible memory e.g. random access memory read only memory CD ROM memory hard disk drive etc. to be read by a central processing unit to implement the functions of the innovations herein. Or the modules can comprise programming instructions transmitted to a general purpose computer or to processing graphics hardware via a transmission carrier wave. Also the modules can be implemented as hardware logic circuitry implementing the functions encompassed by the innovations herein. Finally the modules can be implemented using special purpose instructions SIMD instructions field programmable logic arrays or any mix thereof which provides the desired level performance and cost.

As disclosed herein features consistent with the present inventions may be implemented via computer hardware software and or firmware. For example the systems and methods disclosed herein may be embodied in various forms including for example a data processor such as a computer that also includes a database digital electronic circuitry firmware software or in combinations of them. Further while some of the disclosed implementations describe specific hardware components systems and methods consistent with the innovations herein may be implemented with any combination of hardware software and or firmware. Moreover the above noted features and other aspects and principles of the innovations herein may be implemented in various environments. Such environments and related applications may be specially constructed for performing the various routines processes and or operations according to the invention or they may include a general purpose computer or computing platform selectively activated or reconfigured by code to provide the necessary functionality. The processes disclosed herein are not inherently related to any particular computer network architecture environment or other apparatus and may be implemented by a suitable combination of hardware software and or firmware. For example various general purpose machines may be used with programs written in accordance with teachings of the invention or it may be more convenient to construct a specialized apparatus or system to perform the required methods and techniques.

Aspects of the method and system described herein such as the logic may also be implemented as functionality programmed into any of a variety of circuitry including programmable logic devices PLDs such as field programmable gate arrays FPGAs programmable array logic PAL devices electrically programmable logic and memory devices and standard cell based devices as well as application specific integrated circuits. Some other possibilities for implementing aspects include memory devices microcontrollers with memory such as EEPROM embedded microprocessors firmware software etc. Furthermore aspects may be embodied in microprocessors having software based circuit emulation discrete logic sequential and combinatorial custom devices fuzzy neural logic quantum devices and hybrids of any of the above device types. The underlying device technologies may be provided in a variety of component types e.g. metal oxide semiconductor field effect transistor MOSFET technologies like complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS bipolar technologies like emitter coupled logic ECL polymer technologies e.g. silicon conjugated polymer and metal conjugated polymer metal structures mixed analog and digital and so on.

It should also be noted that the various logic and or functions disclosed herein may be enabled using any number of combinations of hardware firmware and or as data and or instructions embodied in various machine readable or computer readable media in terms of their behavioral register transfer logic component and or other characteristics. Computer readable media in which such formatted data and or instructions may be embodied include but are not limited to non volatile storage media in various forms e.g. optical magnetic or semiconductor storage media though again does not include transitory media. Unless the context clearly requires otherwise throughout the description the words comprise comprising and the like are to be construed in an inclusive sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense that is to say in a sense of including but not limited to. Words using the singular or plural number also include the plural or singular number respectively. Additionally the words herein hereunder above below and words of similar import refer to this application as a whole and not to any particular portions of this application. When the word or is used in reference to a list of two or more items that word covers all of the following interpretations of the word any of the items in the list all of the items in the list and any combination of the items in the list.

Although certain presently preferred implementations of the invention have been specifically described herein it will be apparent to those skilled in the art to which the invention pertains that variations and modifications of the various implementations shown and described herein may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly it is intended that the invention be limited only to the extent required by the applicable rules of law.

