---

title: Communication method, electronic device, and storage medium
abstract: A method of performing communication by a first electronic device is provided. The method includes receiving an input for communication with a third electronic device, determining at least one of a first communication module of the first electronic device and a second communication module of a second electronic device for the communication with the third electronic device, and controlling the first or second communication module for the communication with the third electronic device in response to the input.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09591433&OS=09591433&RS=09591433
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09591433
owner_city: Suwon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20150218
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 a of a Korean patent application filed on Feb. 21 2014 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office and assigned Serial number 10 2014 0020914 the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure relates to an electronic device having a communication function. More particularly the present disclosure relates to a method and an apparatus for communicating with peripheral devices.

Electronic devices for example smart phones can provide various application functions such as a clock calendar memo search map news real time camera and the like as well as a communication function. A user can execute the various functions through the electronic device.

The electronic device may perform a communication function with a structurally standardized communication format using a modem.

The above information is presented as background information only to assist with an understanding of the present disclosure. No determination has been made and no assertion is made as to whether any of the above might be applicable as prior art with regard to the present disclosure.

Aspects of the present disclosure are to address at least the above mentioned problems and or disadvantages and to provide at least the advantages described below. Accordingly an aspect of the present disclosure is to provide electronic devices for example smart phones smart watches and or the like having communication functions and may desire to perform communication with another electronic device by using an electronic device based on a phone number of a second electronic device.

However in the related art the user could not select one of the electronic devices with which to use the communication function or could only use a limited communication function.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure the user may perform an operation of using the communication function of an electronic device which the user desires in a communication method between electronic devices.

In accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure a method of performing communication by a first electronic device is provided. The method includes receiving an input for communication with a third electronic device determining at least one of a first communication module of the first electronic device and a second communication module of a second electronic device for the communication with the third electronic device and controlling the first or second communication module for the communication with the third electronic device in response to the input.

The determining of the at least one of the first communication module of the first electronic device and the second communication module of the second electronic device may include determining which one of the first and second communication modules will be used for transmitting a message based on communication related information.

The communication related information may include at least one of setting information of the first electronic device a type of a communication signal a location or a type of a Subscriber Identity Module SIM a connection state with an external electronic device a user input a power state a charging state a network state and a phone plan.

The communication with the third electronic device may comprise a message including a contact number of the second electronic device according to a control of the second communication module.

The controlling of the first or second communication module may include transmitting a contact number of the third electronic device to the second electronic device making a connection with the second electronic device and making a connection with the third electronic device.

The connection with the second electronic device may be released in a state where the connection with the third electronic device is made.

The method may further include displaying a screen part for selecting at least one of the first and second communication modules and receiving an input for selecting at least one of the first and second communication modules by using the screen part.

The first electronic device and the second electronic device may perform short range communication through BLUETOOTH BT WiFi BLUETOOTH Low Energy BLE Near Field Communication NFC or ZigBee or long range communication through a wired or wireless network.

The method may further include making a connection with the second electronic device for short range communication.

The method may further include displaying a first screen part for receiving the input for the communication with the third electronic device and displaying a second screen part for selecting at least one of the first and second communication modules wherein the first and second screen parts are displayed together on a display of the first electronic device.

The method may further include displaying a second screen part for selecting at least one of the first and second communication modules and storing information on the selection of the at least one of the first and second communication modules in a memory of the first electronic device.

The method may further include displaying a first screen part for receiving the input for the communication with the third electronic device and displaying a second screen part for selecting at least one of the first and second communication modules wherein the second screen part is displayed after the first screen part is displayed.

The displaying of the second screen part for selecting the at least one of the first and second communication modules may include displaying a first identification corresponding to the first communication module and a second identification corresponding to the second electronic device.

Each of the first and second identifications may be displayed by a contact number a phone number a name of a device or a module a configured text or a configured icon.

The controlling of the first or second communication module may include transmitting a first message to the first communication module and communicating with the third electronic device through the first communication module by using at least some of information included in the first message wherein the first message includes signal information for performing a call service a message service or a multimedia service.

The controlling of the first or second communication module may include transmitting a first message to the first communication module and transmitting the first message to the second electronic device by using the first communication module wherein the first message includes signal information for performing a call service a message service or a multimedia service.

The method may further include generating a second message related to the first message for the communication with the second electronic device wherein the second message is transmitted to the second electronic device.

The method may further include receiving an input for displaying a communication record and displaying together a first communication record related to communication between the first communication module and the third electronic device and a second communication record related to communication between the second communication module and the third electronic device in response to the input for displaying the communication record.

The method may further include when the connection between the first electronic device and the second electronic device is released hiding or inactivating the second communication record.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure a non transitory machine readable storage medium recording is provided. The non transitory machine readable storage medium recording includes a program for performing the above method.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure an electronic device is provided. The electronic device includes the non transitory machine readable storage medium above.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure an electronic device is provided. The electronic device includes a first communication module configured to communicate of data or a message and a processor configured to receive an input for communication with a third electronic device to determine at least one of a first communication module of the first electronic device and a second communication module of a second electronic device for the communication with the third electronic device and to control the first or second communication module for the communication with the third electronic device in response to the input.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure a method of performing communication by a second electronic device is provided. The method includes receiving a first message for communication with a third electronic device from a first communication module of a first electronic device transmitting a first message to the second communication module of the second electronic device and performing communication with the third electronic device by using at least some of information included in the first message.

The receiving of the first message may include receiving a second message related to the first message from the first electronic device and obtaining the first message by using at least some of information included in the second message.

The method may further include at least partially re configuring the first message to have a configuration which can be analyzed by the second communication module wherein the re configured first message is transmitted to the second communication module.

The first message may include a contact number of the third electronic device and the performing of the communication with the third electronic device comprises making a connection with the first electronic device and making a connection with the third electronic device.

The method may further include releasing the connection between the first and third electronic devices in a state where the first and third electronic devices are connected to each other.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure a non transitory machine readable storage medium recording is provided. The non transitory machine readable storage medium recording includes a program for performing the above method.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure an electronic device is provided. The electronic device includes the non transitory machine readable storage medium above.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure an electronic device is provided. The electronic device includes a second communication module configured to communicate data or a message and a processor configured to receive a first message for communication with a third electronic device from a first communication module of a first electronic device to transmit the first message to the second communication module and to communicate with the third electronic device by using at least some of information included in the first message.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure the user can perform an operation of using the communication function of an electronic device which the user desires in a communication method between electronic devices.

Other aspects advantages and salient features of the disclosure will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description which taken in conjunction with the annexed drawings discloses various embodiments of the present disclosure.

Throughout the drawings it should be noted that like reference numbers are used to depict the same or similar elements features and structures.

The following description with reference to the accompanying drawings is provided to assist in a comprehensive understanding of various embodiments of the present disclosure as defined by the claims and their equivalents. It includes various specific details to assist in that understanding but these are to be regarded as merely exemplary. Accordingly those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that various changes and modifications of the various embodiments described herein can be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the present disclosure. In addition descriptions of well known functions and constructions may be omitted for clarity and conciseness.

The terms and words used in the following description and claims are not limited to the bibliographical meanings but are merely used by the inventor to enable a clear and consistent understanding of the present disclosure. Accordingly it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the following description of various embodiments of the present disclosure is provided for illustration purpose only and not for the purpose of limiting the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

It is to be understood that the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a component surface includes reference to one or more of such surfaces.

The expressions such as first second or the like used in various embodiments of the present disclosure may modify various component elements in the various embodiments but may not limit corresponding component elements. For example the above expressions do not limit the sequence and or importance of the elements. The expressions may be used to distinguish a component element from another component element. For example a first user device and a second user device indicate different user devices although both of them are user devices. For example without departing from the scope of the present disclosure a first component element may be named a second component element. Similarly the second component element also may be named the first component element.

It should be noted that if it is described that one component element is coupled or connected to another component element the first component element may be directly coupled or connected to the second component and a third component element may be coupled or connected between the first and second component elements. Conversely when one component element is directly coupled or directly connected to another component element it may be construed that a third component element does not exist between the first component element and the second component element.

The terms used in various embodiments of the present disclosure are merely used to exemplify a certain embodiment and should not limit various embodiments of the present disclosure. As used herein the singular forms are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.

Unless defined differently all terms used herein which include technical terminologies or scientific terminologies have the same meaning as a person skilled in the art to which the present disclosure belongs. Such terms as those defined in a generally used dictionary are to be interpreted to have the meanings equal to the contextual meanings in the relevant field of art and are not to be interpreted to have ideal or excessively formal meanings unless clearly defined in the present disclosure.

Electronic devices according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be devices adopting a communication function. For example the electronic devices may include at least one of i.e. any one or a partial or whole combination of smart phones tablet personal computers PCs mobile phones video phones e book readers desktop PCs laptop PCs netbook computers personal digital assistants PDAs portable multimedia players PMPs MP3 players mobile medical devices cameras wearable devices e.g. head mounted devices HMDs such as electronic glasses electronic clothes electronic bracelets electronic necklaces electronic appcessories electronic tattoos or smart watches.

According to an embodiment an electronic device may be a smart home appliance with a communication function. The smart home appliance as an example of the electronic device may include at least one of for example a television a Digital Versatile Disk DVD player an audio system a refrigerator an air conditioner a vacuum cleaner an oven a microwave oven a washing machine an air cleaner a set top box a TV box e.g. Samsung HomeSync Apple TV or Google TV a game console an electronic dictionary an electronic key a camcorder and an electronic picture frame.

According to an embodiment an electronic device may include at least one of various medical devices such as a Magnetic Resonance Angiography MRA scanner a Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI scanner a Computed Tomography CT scanner a scanner an ultrasonograph or the like a navigation device a Global Positioning System GPS receiver an Event Data Recorder EDR a Flight Data Recorder FDR a vehicle infotainment device an electronic equipment for a ship for example a ship navigation device and gyro compass and or the like avionics a security device a head unit for a vehicle an industrial or household robot an Automatic Teller Machine ATM in banking facilities or Point Of Sales POS in stores.

According to another embodiment the electronic devices may include at least one of furniture or a part of a building structure having a communication function electronic boards electronic signature receiving devices projectors or various measuring equipment e.g. equipment for a water supply an electricity gases or radio waves . An electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be a combination of one or more of above described various devices. Also an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be a flexible device. Also an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure is not limited to the above described devices.

Hereinafter an electronic device according to various embodiments will be described with reference to the accompanying drawings. The term user used in various embodiments may refer to a person who uses an electronic device or a device for example an artificial intelligence electronic device which uses an electronic device.

Referring to the electronic device may include a bus a processor a memory an input output interface a display a communication interface and a communication control module .

The bus may be a circuit connecting the above described components and transmitting communication data signal message for example a control message between the above described components.

The processor may receive a command from other components for example the memory the input output interface the display the communication interface or the communication control module through the bus analyze the received command and perform calculation or data processing according to the analyzed command.

The memory may store commands or data received from or generated by the processor or other components for example the input output interface the display the communication interface or the communication control module . The memory may include programming modules such as for example a kernel middleware an Application Programming Interface API or an application . Each of the programming modules described above may be configured by software firmware hardware or a combination of two or more thereof.

The kernel may control or manage system resources for example the bus the processor the memory and or the like which are used for performing operations or functions implemented by other programming modules for example the middleware the API or the application . Further the kernel may provide interfaces by which the middleware the API or the application may access each component of the electronic device to control or manage them.

The middleware may play an intermediate role between the API or the application and the kernel to communicate with each other for transmission and reception of data. Further in relation to requests for an operation received from the application the middleware may control for example scheduling or load balancing the requests for the operation by using for example a method of determining sequence for using system resources for example the bus the processor the memory or the like of the electronic device with respect to at least one application among the application .

The API is an interface by which the application controls functions provided from the kernel or the middleware and may include for example at least one interface or function for example instructions for file control window control image processing or text control.

According to various embodiments the application may include a Short Message Service SMS Multimedia Message Service MMS application an e mail application a calendar application an alarm application a health care application for example an application for measuring an amount of exercise or blood sugar level an environmental information application for example an application for providing atmospheric pressure humidity or temperature or the like. Additionally or alternatively the application may be an application related to the exchange of information between the electronic device and external electronic devices for example an electronic device . The application related to the information exchange may include for example a notification relay application for transmitting specific information to the external electronic device or a device management application for managing the external electronic device.

For example the notification relay application may include a function of transferring notification information generated in other applications for example the SMS MMS application the e mail application the health care application or the environmental information application of the electronic device to external electronic devices for example an electronic device . Additionally or alternatively the notification relay application may receive notification information from for example external electronic devices for example the electronic device and provide the same to a user. The device management application may manage for example install delete or update at least some functions for example turning external electronic device or some elements on or off or adjusting a brightness or resolution of a display of an external electronic device for example the electronic device that communicates with the electronic device applications performed in the external electronic device or services for example a telephone service or a messaging service provided in the external electronic device.

According to various embodiments the application may include applications which are designated according to the property for example the type of electronic device of the external electronic device for example the electronic device . For example when the external electronic device is an MP3 player the application may include an application related to reproduction of music. Similarly when the external electronic device is a mobile medical device the application may include an application related to health care. According to an embodiment the application may include at least one of an application designated for the electronic device or an application received from external electronic devices for example a server or an electronic device .

The input output interface may transmit a command or data input from the user through an input output device for example a sensor keyboard or a touch screen to the processor the memory the communication interface or the communication control module through for example the bus . For example the input output interface may provide the processor with data for a user s touch which is input through the touch screen. Further through the input output device for example a speaker or a display the input output interface may output commands or data received from the processor the memory the communication interface or the communication control module through the bus . For example the input output interface may output voice data processed through the processor to the user through the speaker.

The display may display various pieces of information for example multimedia data or text data for the user.

The communication interface may make a communication connection between the electronic device and external electronic devices for example the electronic device or a server . For example the communication interface may be connected with a network through wireless communication or wired communication to communicate with the external electronic device. The wireless communication may include at least one of WiFi WiFi Direct BLUETOOTH BT BLUETOOTH Low Energy BLE Near Field Communication NFC a Global Positioning System GPS or cellular communication for example Long Term Evolution LTE LTE Advanced LTE A Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Wideband CDMA WCDMA Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Wireless Broadband WiBro or Global System for Mobile Communications GSM . The wired communication may include at least one of for example a Universal Serial Bus USB a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI Recommended Standard 232 RS 232 and Plain Old Telephone Service POTS .

According to an embodiment the network may be a communication network. The communication network may include at least one of a computer network the Internet the Internet of things or a telephone network. According to an embodiment protocols for example a transport layer protocol a data link layer protocol or a physical layer protocol for communication between the electronic device and external electronic devices may be supported by at least one of the application the API the middleware the kernel and the communication interface .

According to an embodiment the communication control module may support driving of the electronic device by conducting at least one of operations or functions implemented by the electronic device . For example the server may include a communication control server module capable of supporting the communication control module implemented in the electronic device . For example the communication control server module may include at least one component of the communication control module and may perform for example perform as a proxy at least one of the operations performed by the communication control module .

The communication control module may process at least some of the information obtained from other components for example the processor the memory the input output interface or the communication interface and utilize the same in various manners. For example the communication control module may control at least some functions of the electronic device by using the processor or independently from the processor so that the electronic device may interwork with other electronic devices for example the electronic device or the server . The communication control module may be integrated into the processor . According to an embodiment at least one component of the communication control module may be included in the server for example the communication control server module and receive at least one operation which is performed by the communication control module from the server . Additional information on the communication control module is provided through described below.

Referring to the communication control module may include a signal determination module and a signal control module .

The signal determination module may designate or select at least one of a first communication module for example the communication interface of the first electronic device and a second communication module of the second electronic device for communication with the third electronic device. The signal determination module may determine which one of the first and second communication modules will receive a first message. The first message may be an internal message of the electronic device including a signal for providing a call service a message service a multimedia service or the like. The first message may include receiver information for example a phone number of the third electronic device or an identification for identifying the third electronic device and or sender information for example a phone number of the first electronic device or an identification for identifying the first electronic device .

The signal determination module may determine which one of the first and second communication modules will receive the first message by using communication related information. The communication related information may include at least one of setting information of the first electronic device a type of communication signal a location or a type of Subscriber Identity Module SIM a connection state with an external electronic device a user input a power state a charging state a network state and a phone plan.

When the first communication module is designated the signal determination module may transmit the first message to the first communication module. The first communication module may communicate with the third electronic device by using at least some of information included in the first message.

When the second communication module is designated the signal determination module may transmit the first message to the signal control module . The signal control module may re configure the first message and transmit the re configured first message to the first communication module and the first communication module may transmit the re configured message to the second electronic device. Re configuring the first message may include converting the first message into a message having a configuration for example a format type protocol or the like which can be analyzed by the second communication module.

The signal control module may receive the first message from the signal determination module and determine a connection scheme between the first and second electronic devices. The signal control module may generate a second message by at least partially re configuring the first message as a configuration which can be analyzed by the second communication module and correspond to the determined connection scheme. The signal control module may transmit the second message to the first communication module. The first communication module may transmit the second message to the second electronic device. For example the connection scheme may be a short range connection scheme such as BT WiFi BLE NFC ZigBee or the like. Alternatively the connection scheme may be for example a long range connection scheme using a Session Traversal Utilities for Network address translator STUN server.

The second message may include a header and a payload. The payload may have a configuration for example a format type protocol or the like which can be analyzed by the first communication module and or the second communication module and the configuration may be an Attention Command AC InterProcess Communication IPC a Qualcomm Mobile Station Modem MSM Interface QMI a Session Initiation Protocol SIP and or the like. The header may include a sequence number Cyclic Redundancy Check CRC data a reference ID and or the like for routing or data management in a server client structure.

Referring to a first electronic device may include a first call application a first telephony a first Radio Interface Layer RIL a first RIL proxy a first communication module a first signal determination module and a first signal control module .

The first call application may provide an application screen to the user and receive an input related to communication from the user by using the application screen.

The first telephony may generate a first message according to a user input. The first message may have a configuration for example a format type protocol or the like which can be analyzed by the first communication module and the configuration may be an AC an IPC a QMI an SIP and or the like. The first message may include receiver information for example a phone number . The first RIL may provide an interface between the first telephony or the first signal control module and the first communication module . The first RIL may include a first RIL driver for processing a command and an event related to a call and a first RIL proxy for processing or managing a request of the first telephony or the first signal control module for the first RIL driver.

The first communication module may perform transmission reception of data signals or messages through a network a connection with a second electronic device and or the like.

The first signal determination module may designate or select at least one of the first communication module of the first electronic device and a second communication module of the second electronic device for communication with the third electronic device.

The first signal control module may generate a second message related to the first message and transmit the second message to the second electronic device by using the first communication module .

The second electronic device may include a second telephony a second RIL a second RIL proxy a second communication module and a second signal control module . Although not illustrated the second electronic device may further include a second call application performing an equal similar function to that of the first call application and a second signal determination module for performing an equal similar function to that of the first signal determination module . The second telephony may perform an equal similar function to that of the first telephony .

The second RIL may provide an interface between the second telephony or the first signal control module and the second communication module . The second RIL may include a second RIL driver for processing a command and an event related to a call and a second RIL proxy for processing or managing a request of the second telephony or the second signal control module for the second RIL driver.

The second communication module may perform transmission reception of data signals or messages through the network a connection with the first electronic device and or the like.

The second signal control module may receive the second message from the first electronic device by using the second communication module and obtain the first message by using at least some of the information included in the second message. The second communication module may communicate with a third electronic device by using at least some of the information included in the first message. The second signal control module may transmit the first message to the second communication module to allow the second communication module to communicate with the third electronic device.

A process may be performed in which the user communicates with the third electronic device by using at least some of the information included in the first message containing a contact number of the first electronic device stored in the first SIM of the first electronic device as sender information.

The first call application may receive user input information by using an application screen and transmit the user input information to the first telephony . The first telephony may generate a first message by using the user input information and transmit the first message to the first signal determination module . The first signal determination module may designate the first communication module from the first and second communication modules and by using the user input information or communication related information and transmit the first message to the first RIL proxy . The first signal determination module may insert information indicating the designation of the first communication module into the first message or transmit the information to the first RIL proxy . The first RIL proxy may transmit the first message to the first communication module . The first communication module may communicate with the third electronic device through the network for example a cellular communication network by using at least some of the information included in the first message containing a contact number of the first electronic device stored in the first SIM of the first electronic device as sender information. For example the user may call the third electronic device or transmit a message to the third electronic device while configuring the contact number of the first electronic device stored in the first SIM of the first electronic device as a sender.

A process may be performed in which the user communicates with the third electronic device by using at least some of the information included in the first message containing a contact number of the second electronic device stored in the second SIM of the second electronic device as sender information.

The first call application may receive user input information by using an application screen and transmit the user input information to the first telephony . The first telephony may generate a first message by using the user input information and transmit the first message to the first signal determination module . The first signal determination module may designate the second communication module from the first and second communication modules and by using the user input information or communication related information and transmit the first message to the first RIL proxy . The first signal determination module may insert information indicating the designation of the second communication module into the first message or transmit the information to the first RIL proxy . The first RIL proxy may transmit the first message to the first signal control module . The first signal control module may determine a connection scheme between the first and second electronic devices and for communication with the second electronic device . The first signal control module may generate a second message related to the first message or a re configured first message by at least partially re configuring the first message to have a configuration which can be analyzed by the second communication module and correspond to the determined connection scheme. The first signal control module may transmit the second message to the first communication module . The first communication module may transmit the second message to the second electronic device through the network for example using BT WiFi BLE NFC ZigBee or the like .

According to an embodiment the first signal control module may determine whether the first and second communication modules and are connected to each other. When the first and second communication modules and are not connected to each other the first signal control module may establish a connection with the second communication module by controlling the first communication module for example by transmitting a connection request message and then transmit the second message to the second electronic device by using the first communication module .

According to an embodiment the first electronic device may perform a connection process with the second electronic device and the first electronic device may receive a message configuration information supported by the second electronic device or exchange own message configuration information. The first signal control module may at least partially re configure the first message according to the received message configuration information.

According to an embodiment the first and second electronic devices may set a particular message configuration for communication therebetween and the first signal control module may at least partially re configure the first message according to the set message configuration information.

According to an embodiment the user may configure an environment setting such that the second communication module is used for a particular contact number.

According to an embodiment when the connection with the second electronic device is released the first electronic device may make a request for the connection to the second electronic device . When a connection of a first scheme for example BT with the second electronic device is released the first electronic device may attempt connections using other schemes for example WiFi according to a configured priority.

According to an embodiment when a call connection of the first electronic device fails the call connection may be attempted using the second electronic device .

The second communication module of the second electronic device may receive the second message from the first electronic device . The second communication module may transmit the second message to the second control module . The second signal control module may obtain the first message by using at least some of the information included in the second message. The second signal control module may determine a configuration of the first message. The second signal control module may at least partially re configure the first message to have a configuration which can be analyzed by the second communication module . For example when the configuration of the first message corresponds to an AT command and a configuration which can be analyzed by the second communication module corresponds to IPC the second signal control module may re configure the first message to have the IPC configuration. The second signal control module may transmit the re configured first message or the obtained first message to the second RIL proxy . The second RIL proxy may transmit the first message to the second communication module . The second communication module may communicate with the third electronic device through the network for example a cellular communication network by using at least some of the information included in the first message containing a contact number of the second electronic device stored in the second SIM of the second electronic device as sender information. For example the user may call the third electronic device or transmit a message to the third electronic device while configuring the contact number of the second electronic device stored in the second SIM of the second electronic device as a sender.

According to an embodiment the second signal control module may transmit the re configured first message or the obtained first message to the second communication module without the use of the second RIL proxy .

According to an embodiment when the second electronic device is connected with the first electronic device through BT the second electronic device may partially or completely or entirely turn off a cellular communication part of the second communication module .

According to an embodiment when the connection between the first electronic device and the second electronic device is released for a preset time or longer one of the first electronic device and the second electronic device may automatically configure call forwarding to the other of the first electronic device and the second electronic device in a service provider communication network.

According to an embodiment the first electronic device or the second electronic device may transmit a response message to a recently received contact number or to a contact number according to a user s selection.

Referring to a process is depicted in which the user designates one of the first communication module of the first electronic device and the second communication module of the second electronic device and communicates with the third electronic device by using the designated communication module.

In operation a first screen part for receiving an input for communication is displayed on a display of the first electronic device. The first screen part may be the entirety or part of an application screen. When the user executes a particular application the application screen may be a screen for example a window displayed on the display of the electronic device. For example the first screen part may be a text for example a selectable text or an image for example an icon included in the application screen.

The application may be an application requiring communication with the third electronic device and may include for example a phone application a text application a voice recognition application a schedule management application a document writing application a music application an Internet application a map application a camera application an email application an image editing application a search application a file search application a video application a game application a Social Networking Service SNS a message application a writing input application a character input application or a keyboard keypad application a cursor application a streaming application a mirroring application and or the like.

In operation a user input for the first screen part may be received. The user may order communication with the third electronic device by using the first screen part for example by selecting the first screen part through a touch or hovering .

In operation a second screen part for designating at least one of the first and second communication modules may be displayed. The second screen part may be text for example a selectable text or an image for example an icon included in the application screen or may be a screen separated from the application screen. For example a message a notification window or the like for designating at least one of the first and second communication modules may be displayed above the application screen. The second screen part may include a first item for example a first button for designating the first communication module and a second item for example a second button for designating the second communication module. The second screen part may include a first identification for example a mobile phone a first SIM a first phone number or the like corresponding to the first communication module and a second identification for example a watch a second SIM a second phone number or the like corresponding to the second electronic device. Each of the first and second identifications may be displayed by a contact number a phone number a name of a device or module for example the first or second SIM a configured text or a configured icon.

In operation a user input may be received by the second screen part. The user may designate at least one of the first and second communication modules by using the second screen part for example by selecting the second screen part through a touch or hovering .

In operation a communication module to be used for the communication with the third electronic device may be determined. In response to the user input for the second screen part the first electronic device may determine a communication module to be used for the communication with the third electronic device from the first and second communication modules.

In operation when the first communication module is determined as the communication module to be used for communication with the third electronic device the first electronic device may communicate with the third electronic device by using the first communication module. A message for the communication with the third electronic device may include information on signals for performing a call service a message service a multimedia service or the like.

In operation when the second communication module is determined as the communication module to be used for the communication with the third electronic device the first electronic device may transmit a message to the second electronic device using the first communication module. The message transmitted to the second electronic device may be a message or a second message related to the first message generated by re configuring the first message having a configuration which can be analyzed by the first communication module such that the message can be analyzed by the second communication module and correspond to a connection scheme between the first and second electronic devices. The first message may include receiver information for example a phone number .

In operation the second electronic device may receive a second message from the first electronic device.

In operation the second electronic device may obtain a first message by using at least some of the information included in the second message. The first message may have a configuration which can be analyzed by the first communication module of the first electronic device and the second message may be a message generated by at least partially re configuring the first message to have a configuration which can be analyzed by the second communication module of the second electronic device and correspond to a connection scheme between the first and second electronic devices.

In operation the second electronic device may at least partially re configure the first message such that the first message has the configuration which can be analyzed by the second communication module.

In operation the second electronic device may communicate with the third electronic device by using at least some of the information included in the re configured first message having the configuration which can be analyzed by the second communication module through the second communication module.

Referring to a contact information screen of a call application is displayed on a display of a first electronic device . The contact information screen may include a plurality of contact numbers and the plurality of contact numbers may include at least one contact number stored in a second electronic device. The plurality of contact numbers may include contact numbers registered by the first electronic device and contact numbers registered by the second electronic device. For example the first electronic device may receive contact information from the second electronic device and store the received contact information in a memory of the first electronic device . The contact numbers registered by the second electronic device may be indicated to be distinguished from the contact numbers registered by the first electronic device . Such an indication may include a visual emphasis auditory emphasis a tactile emphasis or the like. For example the visual emphasis may be implemented by displaying an icon an image a text or the like or making a color a form a transparency a location or the like of the contact number registered by the second electronic device different from that of the contact number registered by the first electronic device . For example the auditory emphasis may be implemented by outputting a voice for example audio guidance or a sound for example notification sound when the user selects the contact number registered by the second electronic device. For example the tactile emphasis may be implemented by giving a vibration when the user selects the contact number registered by the second electronic device. In the present example the contact number registered by the second electronic device may be emphasized by an icon M .

According to an embodiment when a connection between the first and second electronic devices is released contact numbers registered by the second electronic device may be inactivated or hidden.

A first screen part for receiving an input for communication may correspond to the entirety or part of the contact information screen . For example the first screen part may be a call icon.

When the user selects the first screen part of the contact number registered by the second electronic device in the contact information screen illustrated in a second screen part for designating at least one of the first and second communication modules may be displayed as illustrated in . The second screen part may include a first identification for example a mobile phone corresponding to the first communication module and a second identification for example a watch corresponding to the second electronic device. Each of the first and second identifications may be displayed by a contact number a phone number a name of the device or module a configured text or a configured icon. The second screen part may include a selectable first item including the first identification for example mobile phone and a selectable second item including the second identification for example watch . The user may designate a desired communication module by selecting one of the first and second items. For example the user may call the third electronic device or transmit a message to the third electronic device while having the contact number of the second electronic device as a sender by selecting the second item .

Referring to an origination screen of a call application is displayed on a display of a second electronic device and a contact number of the third electronic device for example a phone number 101 1234 5678 of the third electronic device may be displayed on the origination screen .

Referring to a reception screen of a call application is displayed on a display of a second electronic device and a contact number of the third electronic device for example a phone number 010 1234 5678 of the third electronic device may be displayed on the reception screen .

Referring to a process is depicted in which the first electronic device designates one of the first communication module of the first electronic device and the second communication module of the second electronic device and communicates with the third electronic device by using the designated communication module.

In operation a first screen part for receiving an input for communication is displayed on a display of the first electronic device. The first screen part may be the entirety or part of an application screen. When the user executes a particular application the application screen may be a screen for example a window displayed on the display of the electronic device. For example the first screen part may be a text for example a selectable text or an image for example an icon included in the application screen.

In operation a user input for the first screen part may be received. The user may instruct communication with the third electronic device by using the first screen part for example by selecting the first screen part through a touch or hovering .

In operation a communication module to be used for the communication with the third electronic device may be determined. The first electronic device may determine which one of the first and second communication modules will be used based on communication related information. The communication related information may include at least one of setting information of the first electronic device the type of communication signal a location or a type of SIM a connection state with an external electronic device a user input a power state a charging state a network state and a phone plan. For example the first electronic device may determine to use the second communication module in a case where the user selects the contact number registered by the second electronic device a case where the user selects a contact number included in a call log of the second electronic device a case where the second communication module is set to be used for a particular contact number or a case where a communication history of using only the second communication module for a particular contact number exists.

In operation when the first communication module is determined as the communication module to be used for the communication with the third electronic device the first electronic device may communicate with the third electronic device using the first communication module. A message for the communication with the third electronic device may include a signal for performing a call service a message service a multimedia service or the like.

In operation when the second communication module is determined as the communication module to be used for the communication with the third electronic device the first electronic device may transmit a message to the second electronic device using the first communication module. The message transmitted to the second electronic device may be a message or a second message related to the first message generated by re configuring the first message having a configuration which can be analyzed by the first communication module such that the message can be analyzed by the second communication module.

Referring to a call log screen of a call application is displayed on a display of a first electronic device . The call log screen includes a plurality of items and the plurality of items may include termination origination call log items of the first electronic device and termination origination call log items of the second electronic device. For example the first electronic device may receive call log information from the second electronic device and store the received call log information in a memory of the first electronic device . The call log items of the second electronic device may be emphasized. Such an emphasis may include a visual emphasis auditory emphasis a tactile emphasis or the like. For example the visual emphasis may be implemented by displaying an icon an image text or the like or making a color a form a transparency a location or the like of the call log item of the second electronic device different from that of the call log item of the first electronic device. In the present example the call log item of the second electronic device may be emphasized by an icon M .

According to an embodiment when a connection between the first and second electronic devices is released the termination origination call log items of the second electronic device may be inactivated or hidden.

A first screen part for receiving an input for communication may correspond to the entirety or part of the call log screen . For example the first screen part may be a call icon.

When the user selects the first screen part of the call log item of the second electronic device in the call log screen illustrated in the user may call the third electronic device or transmit a message to the third electronic device while having the contact number of the second electronic device as a sender.

Referring to when the user selects the call log item of the second electronic device corresponding to the first screen part for receiving the input for communication with the third electronic device in the present example a second screen part for designating at least one of the first and second communication modules may be displayed. The second screen part may include a first identification for example a mobile phone corresponding to the first communication module and a second identification for example a watch corresponding to the second electronic device. The user may designate a desired communication module through a sliding gesture or a swipe gesture . For example the user may designate the first communication module by taking a left sliding gesture and designate the second communication module by taking a right sliding gesture. When the user designates the second communication module the first electronic device may call the third electronic device or transmit a message to the third electronic device while using the contact number of the second electronic device as a sender.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure the second screen part may be displayed on the same application screen together with the first screen part displayed separately from the first screen part or displayed after the first screen part is displayed.

In operation from a first communication module of a first electronic device and a second communication module of a second electronic device the first electronic device may designate the second communication module of the second electronic device as a communication module for communication with a third electronic device using communication related information.

In operation the first electronic device may transmit a second message to the second electronic device . The second message may be a message generated by re configuring the first message to have a configuration which can be analyzed by the second communication module of the second electronic device and correspond to a connection scheme between the first and second electronic devices and . The first message may have a configuration which can be analyzed by the first communication module of the first electronic device . The first message may include receiver information for example a phone number of the third electronic device and or sender information for example a phone number of the first electronic device .

In operation the second electronic device may obtain the first message by using at least some of the information included in the second message.

In operation the first electronic device may establish a first call connection with the second electronic device .

In operation the second electronic device may establish a second call connection with the third electronic device by using the receiver information of the first message in a state where the first call connection with the first electronic device is maintained. According to an embodiment the second electronic device may establish the first call connection before or after the establishment of the second call connection. According to an embodiment the second electronic device may simultaneously establish the first and second call connections.

In operation as the first and second call connections are sequentially or simultaneously established a multilateral call connection may be established among the first to third electronic devices and .

In operation as the second call connection is released from the multilateral call connection only a third call connection between the first and third electronic device and may be maintained. The first and third electronic device and may perform a call or data communication through the third call connection.

Referring to a first electronic device may include a first telephony a second telephony a first RIL a second RIL a first communication module and a first SIM . A second electronic device may include a second communication module and a second SIM .

The first telephony may generate a first message according to a user input. The first RIL may provide an interface between the first telephony and a first communication module . The first communication module may communicate with a third electronic device through a network for example a cellular communication network using at least some of the information included in the first message containing a contact number of the first electronic device stored in the second SIM as sender information.

The second telephony may generate a second message according to a user input. The second RIL may provide an interface between the second telephone and the second communication module through the network for example using BT WiFi BLE NFC ZigBee or the like . The second communication module may communicate with the third electronic device through the network for example a cellular communication network using at least some of the information included in the second message containing a contact number of the second electronic device stored in the second SIM as sender information.

The first electronic device may configure the first SIM as a physical SIM and configure the second SIM of the second electronic device as a remote or logical SIM.

Referring to a first electronic device may include a telephony an RIL a first communication module and a first SIM . A second electronic device may include a second communication module and a second SIM .

The telephony may include first and second SIM slots for the first and second SIMs and and generate a first message according to a user input by using the first SIM . The RIL may include the first and second SIM slots for the first and second SIMs and and provide an interface between the telephony for the first SIM and the first communication module . The first communication module may communicate with a third electronic device through a network for example a cellular communication network using at least some of the information included in the first message containing a contact number of the first electronic device stored in the first SIM as sender information.

The telephony may generate a second message according to a user input by using the second SIM . The RIL may provide an interface between the telephony for the second SIM and the second communication module through the network for example using BT WiFi BLE NFC ZigBee or the like . The second communication module may communicate with the third electronic device through the network for example a cellular communication network using at least some of the information included in the second message containing a contact number of the second electronic device stored in the second SIM as sender information.

The first electronic device may configure the first SIM as a physical SIM and configure the second SIM of the second electronic device as a remote or logical SIM.

In operation a first electronic device may make a request for an Internet Protocol IP address and information on a port to a STUN server and receive the IP address and the information on the port from the STUN server .

In operation the first electronic device may transmit an offer signal for a connection to a second electronic device .

In operation the second electronic device may make a request for an IP address and information on a port to the STUN server and receive the IP address and the information on the port from the STUN server .

In operation the second electronic device may transmit an answer signal in response to the offer signal.

In operation the second electronic device may transmit a STUN check signal for identifying the connection to the first electronic device .

In operation the first electronic device may transmit the STUN check signal for identifying the connection to the second electronic device .

In operation the first electronic device may transmit data or a message having a configuration for example a format a form a protocol or the like which can be analyzed by the first communication module of the first electronic device and or the second communication module of the second electronic device to the second electronic device through a network .

In operation the second electronic device may transmit data or a message having a configuration for example a format a form a protocol or the like which can be analyzed by the first communication module of the first electronic device and or the second communication module of the second electronic device to the first electronic device through the network .

In operation the first electronic device may transmit data or a message having a configuration which can be analyzed by the first communication module of the first electronic device and or the second communication module of the second electronic device to the second electronic device through a network .

In operation the second electronic device may transmit data or a message having a configuration or a format a form a protocol or the like which can be analyzed by the first communication module of the first electronic device and or the second communication module of the second electronic device to the first electronic device through the network .

In operation a first electronic device may make a request for an IP address and information on a port to a STUN server and receive the IP address and the information on the port from the STUN server .

In operation the first electronic device may transmit an offer signal for a connection to a second electronic device .

In operation the second electronic device may make a request for an IP address and information on a port to the STUN server and receive the IP address and the information on the port from the STUN server .

In operation the second electronic device may transmit an answer signal in response to the offer signal.

In operation the second electronic device may transmit a STUN check signal for identifying the connection to the first electronic device .

In operation the first electronic device may transmit the STUN check signal for identifying the connection to the second electronic device .

In operation the first electronic device may transmit a Session Initiation Protocol SIP message to the second electronic device through a network .

In operation the second electronic device may transmit a response message to the SIP message for example 200 ok to the first electronic device through the network .

In operation a first electronic device may make a request for an IP address and information on a port to a STUN server and receive the IP address and the information on the port from the STUN server .

In operation the first electronic device may transmit an offer signal for a connection to a second electronic device .

In operation the second electronic device may make a request for an IP address and information on a port to the STUN server and receive the IP address and the information on the port from the STUN server .

In operation the second electronic device may transmit an answer signal in response to the offer signal.

In operation the second electronic device may transmit a STUN check signal for identifying the connection to the first electronic device .

In operation the first electronic device may transmit the STUN check signal for identifying the connection to the second electronic device .

In operation the first electronic device may transmit an IPC SMS SEND message for instructing to transmit an SMS message to the second electronic device through a network . The IPC SMS SEND message may include a Protocol Data Unit PDU which comprises an SMS message content and control information such as receiver information.

In operation the second electronic device may transmit an IPC CMD RESPONSE message which is a general response message indicating reception of the IPC SMS SEND message to the first electronic device through the network .

In operation the second electronic device may transmit the IPC SMS SEND message corresponding to a message which notifies of the result of the transmission of the SMS message to first electronic device .

Referring to the electronic device may include at least one application processor AP a communication module a subscriber identification module SIM card a memory a sensor module an input module a display an interface an audio module a camera module a power management module a battery an indicator and a motor .

The AP may control a plurality of hardware or software components connected to the AP by driving an operating system or an application program and process various data including multimedia data and perform calculations. The AP may be implemented with for example a System on Chip SoC . According to an embodiment the AP may further include a Graphic Processing Unit GPU not shown .

The communication module for example the communication interface may perform data transmission reception in communication between the electronic device for example the electronic device and other electronic devices for example the electronic device and the server connected thereto through a network. According to an embodiment the communication module may include a cellular module a WiFi module a BT module a Global Positioning System GPS module an NFC module and a Radio Frequency RF module .

The cellular module may provide a voice a call a video call SMS or an Internet service through a communication network for example LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS WiBro GSM or the like . Further the cellular module may distinguish and authenticate electronic devices within a communication network by using a Subscriber Identification Module for example the SIM card . According to an embodiment the cellular module may perform at least some of the functions which can be provided by the AP . For example the cellular module may perform at least some of the multimedia control functions.

According to an embodiment the cellular module may include a Communication Processor CP not shown . Further the cellular module may be implemented by for example an SoC. Although the elements such as the cellular module for example the communication processor the memory and the power management module are illustrated to be separate from the AP in the AP may be implemented to include at least some of the above described elements for example the cellular module according to an embodiment.

According to an embodiment the AP or the cellular module for example communication control module may load a command or data received from at least one of a non volatile memory and other components connected to each of the AP and the cellular module to a volatile memory and process the loaded command or data. Further the AP or the cellular module may store data received from or generated by at least one of other elements in a non volatile memory.

Each of the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may include a process for processing data transmitted received through the corresponding module. In the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module are illustrated as blocks separated from each other but at least some for example two or more of the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may be included in one Integrated Chip IC or one IC package. For example at least some for example a communication processor corresponding to the cellular module and a WiFi processor corresponding to the WiFi module processors corresponding to the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module respectively may be implemented as one SoC.

The RF module may transmit receive data for example an RF signal. Although not illustrated the RF module may include for example a transceiver a Power Amp Module PAM a frequency filter a Low Noise Amplifier LNA or the like. Further the RF unit may include not shown a component for transmitting receiving an electromagnetic wave in the air in radio communication such as a conductor or a conducting wire. Although the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module are illustrated to share one RF module in at least one of the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may transmit receive the RF signal through a separate RF module.

The SIM card may be a card including a Subscriber Identification Module and may be inserted into a slot formed in a particular portion of the electronic device. The SIM card may include unique identification information for example Integrated Circuit Card IDentifier ICCID or subscriber information for example International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI .

The memory for example memory may include an internal memory or an external memory . The internal memory may include not shown at least one of a volatile memory for example a Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM a Static RAM SRAM a Synchronous DRAM SDRAM and or the like and a non volatile memory for example a One Time Programmable Read Only Memory OTPROM a Programmable ROM PROM an Erasable and Programmable ROM EPROM an Electrically Erasable and Programmable ROM EEPROM a mask ROM a flash ROM a NAND flash memory a NOR flash memory and or the like .

According to an embodiment the internal memory may be a Solid State Drive SSD . The external memory may further include not shown a flash drive for example a Compact Flash CF a Secure Digital SD a Micro SD a Mini SD an extreme Digital xD a Memory Stick or the like. The external memory may be functionally connected to the electronic device through various interfaces. According to an embodiment the electronic device may further include not shown a storage device or storage medium such as a hard drive.

The sensor module may measure a physical quantity or detect an operation status of the electronic device and convert the measured or detected information to an electronic signal. The sensor module may include for example at least one of a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B an atmospheric pressure sensor C a magnetic sensor D an acceleration sensor E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G a color sensor H for example a red green and blue RGB sensor a biometric sensor I a temperature humidity sensor J an illumination sensor K and an Ultra Violet UV sensor M. Additionally or alternatively the sensor module may include for example not shown an E nose sensor an electromyography EMG sensor an electroencephalogram EEG sensor an electrocardiogram ECG sensor an Infrared IR sensor an iris sensor a fingerprint sensor and or the like. The sensor module may further include not shown a control circuit for controlling one or more sensors included in the sensor module .

The input module may include a touch panel a digital pen sensor a key or an ultrasonic input device . The touch panel may recognize a touch input by at least one of for example a capacitive type a pressure type an infrared type or an ultrasonic type. The touch panel may further include not shown a control circuit. In the capacitive type a physical contact or proximity recognition is possible. The touch panel may further include a tactile layer. In this case the touch panel may provide a tactile reaction to the user.

The digital pen sensor may be implemented for example using a method identical or similar to a method of receiving a touch input of a user or using a separate recognition sheet. The key may include for example a physical button an optical key or a keypad. The ultrasonic input device is a device which can detect an acoustic wave by a microphone for example microphone of the electronic device through an input tool generating an ultrasonic signal to identify data and can perform wireless recognition. According to an embodiment the electronic device may receive a user input from an external device for example computer or server connected to the electronic device by using the communication module .

The display for example the display may include a panel a hologram device and a projector . The panel may be for example a Liquid Crystal Display LCD or an Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diode AM OLED . The panel may be implemented to be for example flexible transparent or wearable. The panel may be configured by the touch panel and one module. The hologram may show a stereoscopic image in the air by using interference of light. The projector may project light on a screen to display an image. For example the screen may be located inside or outside the electronic device . According to one embodiment the display may further include a control circuit not shown for controlling the panel the hologram device or the projector .

The interface may include for example a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI a Universal Serial Bus USB an optical interface or a D subminiature D sub . The interface may be included in for example the communication interface illustrated in . Additionally or alternatively the interface may include for example not shown a Mobile High definition Link MHL interface a Secure Digital SD card Multi Media Card MMC interface or an Infrared Data Association IrDA standard interface.

The audio module may bi directionally convert a sound and an electronic signal. At least some components of the audio module may be included in for example the input output interface illustrated in . The audio module may convert sound information input or output through for example a speaker a receiver an earphone the microphone or the like.

The camera module is a device which can photograph an image and a dynamic image. According to an embodiment the camera module may include not shown one or more image sensors for example a front lens or a back lens a lens an Image Signal Processor ISP or a flash for example an LED or xenon lamp .

The power managing module may manage power of the electronic device . Although not illustrated the power management module may include for example a Power Management Integrated Circuit PMIC a charger Integrated Circuit IC or a battery or fuel gauge.

The PMIC may be mounted within for example an integrated circuit or a SoC semiconductor. Charging methods may be classified into a wired charging method and a wireless charging method. The charger IC may charge a battery and prevent over voltage or over current from flowing from a charger. According to an embodiment the charger IC may include a charger IC for at least one of the wired charging method and the wireless charging method. A magnetic resonance scheme a magnetic induction scheme or an electromagnetic scheme can be exemplified as the wireless charging method and an additional circuit for wireless charging such as a coil loop circuit a resonance circuit a rectifier circuit and or the like may be added.

The battery or fuel gauge may measure for example a remaining amount of battery a charging voltage and current or temperature. The battery may store or generate electricity and supply power to the electronic device by using the stored or generated electricity. The battery may include for example a rechargeable battery or a solar battery.

The indicator may display a particular status of the electronic device or a part thereof for example the AP for example a booting status a message status a charging status or the like. The motor may convert an electrical signal to a mechanical vibration. Although not illustrated the electronic device may include a processing unit for example a GPU for mobile TV support. The processing unit for supporting the mobile TV may process for example media data according to a standard of Digital Multimedia Broadcasting DMB Digital Video Broadcasting DVB media flow or the like.

The described component elements of an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be formed of one or more components and a name of a corresponding component element may be changed based on a type of electronic device. An electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be formed to include at least one of the described component elements and component elements may be omitted or additional component elements may be further included. Also some of the components of the electronic device according to the present disclosure may be combined to form a single entity and thus may equivalently execute functions of the corresponding components before being combined.

The term module used in the various embodiments of the present disclosure may refer to for example a unit including one or more combinations of hardware software and firmware. The module may be interchangeable with a term such as a unit a logic a logical block a component or a circuit. The module may be the smallest unit of an integrated component or a part thereof. The module may be a minimum unit for performing one or more functions or a part thereof. The module may be mechanically or electronically implemented. For example the module according to the various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one of an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC chip a Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGA and a programmable logic device for performing operations which have been known or are to be developed hereinafter.

According to various embodiments at least part of a device for example modules or functions thereof or a method for example operations according to the various embodiments of the present disclosure may be embodied by for example an instruction stored in a non transitory computer readable storage medium provided in a form of a programming module. When the command is executed by one or more processors for example the processor the one or more processors may execute a function corresponding to the command. The non transitory computer readable storage medium may be for example the memory . At least some of the programming modules may be implemented for example executed by for example the processor . At least some of the programming modules may include for example a module a program a routine a set of instructions or a process for performing one or more functions.

The non transitory computer readable recording medium may include magnetic media such as a hard disk a floppy disk and a magnetic tape optical media such as a Compact Disc Read Only Memory CD ROM and a DVD magneto optical media such as a floptical disk and hardware devices specially configured to store and perform a program instruction for example programming module such as ROM RAM a flash memory and or the like. In addition the program instructions may include high level language codes which can be executed in a computer by using an interpreter as well as machine codes made by a compiler. The aforementioned hardware device may be configured to operate as one or more software modules in order to perform the operation of various embodiments of the present disclosure and vice versa.

A programming module according to the present disclosure may include at least one of the described component elements a few of the component elements may be omitted or additional component elements may be included. Operations executed by a module a programming module or other component elements according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be executed sequentially in parallel repeatedly or in a heuristic manner. Further some operations may be executed according to another order or may be omitted or other operations may be added.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure a storage medium stores instructions that are configured to when executed by at least one processor enable the at least one processor to perform at least one operation including receiving an input for communication with a third electronic device designating at least one of a first communication module of the first electronic device and a second communication module of a second electronic device for the communication with the third electronic device and controlling the first or second communication module for the communication with the third electronic device in response to the input.

While the present disclosure has been shown and described with reference to various embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

