---

title: Interface systems and methods for portable structures
abstract: An interface system for a portable structure, at least one power supply, at least one wired functional device, and at least one wireless functional device. A power interface is operatively connected to the at least one power supply. A wired interface is operatively connected to the at least one wired functional device. A wireless interface is wirelessly connected to the at least one wireless functional device. A controller is operatively connected to the power interface, the wired interface, and the wireless interface. The controller controls the power interface to distribute power from the at least one power supply to the at least one wired functional device. The controller controls the wired interface to distribute at least one of commands and data to the wired functional device. The controller controls the wireless interface to distribute at least one of commands and data to the wireless functional device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09614371&OS=09614371&RS=09614371
owner: TSUGA ENGINEERING LLC
number: 09614371
owner_city: Bellingham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150806
---
This application U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 820 401 filed Aug. 6 2015 claims benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 034 111 filed Aug. 6 2014 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to portable structures such as bags backpacks clothing and camping equipment and more particularly to interface systems for routing and controlling power and data signals among power supplies peripherals and user interface devices designed for use with such portable structures.

Portable electronic devices typically contain batteries for providing power when utility power is not available. Depending on various factors it may be necessary to recharge a depleted battery when utility power is still unavailable so portable battery packs have been developed to provide additional power to portable electronic devices. As described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 748 385 portable battery packs may be incorporated into portable structures such as purses backpacks and the like where the weight of the battery pack is not too noticeable and the portable structure is nearby when a battery needs to be recharged.

In addition such portable structures may incorporate or be used in conjunction with structure electronic devices such as sensors actuators motors and the like to perform functions related to features of the portable structure e.g. zippers buckles flaps and the like . In this case the structure electronic devices may require power and it may not be convenient or feasible to associate a battery with each one of these structure electronic devices. Further portable structures may be provided with additional features not specifically related to function of the portable structure itself e.g. solar panels heaters etc. . Accordingly a single battery may be supported by the portable structure to provide power to a plurality of such structure electronic devices.

The present invention generally relates to systems and methods for portable structures that can distribute power command and data throughout the portable structure and communicate wirelessly to devices outside of the portable structure.

The present invention may be embodied as an interface system for a portable structure. The interface system operatively connects at least one power supply at least one wired functional device and at least one wireless functional device and comprises a power interface a wired interface a wireless interface and a controller. The power interface is operatively connected to the at least one power supply. The wired interface is operatively connected to the at least one wired functional device. The wireless interface is wirelessly connected to the at least one wireless functional device. The controller is operatively connected to the power interface the wired interface and the wireless interface. The controller controls the power interface to distribute power from the at least one power supply to the at least one wired functional device. The controller controls the wired interface to distribute at least one of commands and data to the wired functional device. The controller controls the wireless interface to distribute at least one of commands and data to the wireless functional device.

Referring initially to of the present invention depicted at in is an example generic hardware interface system and at in is an example generic software interface system constructed in accordance with and embodying the principles of the present invention.

As shown in the example generic hardware interface system comprises a data interface a power interface and optionally an internal power supply . The data interface comprises a controller a tether user interface a wired interface and a wireless interface . The controller is or may comprise any general purpose microprocessor capable of running the generic software interface system depicted in . The tether user interface may comprise lights buttons display screens touch screens or the like directly connected to or mounted on the generic hardware interface system to allow input and or output of data to a user of that system . The wired interface is or may be any device capable of transmitting power and or data through electrical or fiber optics conductors and will typically conform to industry standards such as USB and or FireWire. The wireless interface is or may be any device capable of transmitting data wirelessly and will typically conform to industry standards such as Bluetooth WiFi NFC Ant Zigbee and or RFID.

The power interface allows power from multiple sources to be supplied to the data interface and beyond. One such source is the internal power supply depicted in . An example of a power interface system that may be used as or in conjunction with the power interface is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 748 385 and that application is incorporated herein by reference. The power interface is further configured to allow multiple power sources both internal and external and to be connected to hardware interface system . In this case the power interface would implement logic necessary to gather status information i.e. remaining charge temperature from the various internal and external power sources and connect these power sources to the data interface as appropriate.

The example power interface may further provide power conversion and or modulation as required by specific applications. In particular power to charge a battery may require regulation of the voltage and current. Further power drawn from a battery may require DC DC conversion from a variable battery voltage of 3.0 4.2 to the operating which in the present technology is 5V. Also in the case of driving LED lighting the power interface must appropriately regulate the current to drive LED s. In the case of solar power conversion could be used to balance the output voltage and current of the solar panels targeting a sweet spot to achieve maximum efficiency for a given set of solar panel and lighting conditions.

For example if one of the external power sources is a battery and the other external power source is a solar panel the power interface will draw power from the solar panel when the sun is shining and use this power to charge the battery and operate the data interface . At night or indoors the power interface will draw power from the battery instead of the solar panel

As will be explained in detail below the number of power supplies and wired devices and supported by the generic hardware interface system is limited only by the number of physical connections provided by power interface and the wired interface . Similarly the number and type of wireless devices and supported by the generic hardware system is limited only by the capability of the wireless communication system implemented by the wireless interface . The generic hardware interface system allows peripheral devices to be combined in any manner suitable for a particular portable structure within certain hardware constraints.

The generic software interface system also allows peripheral devices to be combined in any manner suitable for a particular portable structure. As shown in the generic software interface system may be represented as layers of software that isolate an application program from the peripheral devices and . In particular the application communicates with or is written to conform to the application programming interface . The peripheral devices and communicate with or are created to conform to the peripheral programming interface either directly or through one of the drivers . The interface system coordinates the transfer of data between the application programming interface and the peripheral programming interface .

In the example depicted in the external power supply wired peripheral wired remote user interface wireless functional device and wireless remote user interface have not been created to conform to the peripheral programming interface and thus require the drivers and respectively to communicate with the peripheral programming interface . When required the drivers convert hardware data and power signals communicated between one or more peripheral formats defined by the peripheral devices and into a peripheral programming interface PPI format defined by the peripheral programming interface . On the other hand the internal power supply external power supply wired peripheral wired remote user interface wireless functional device and wireless remote user interface have been created to conform to the peripheral programming interface and thus do not require a driver to communicate with the peripheral programming interface . In this case the peripheral formats defined by the peripheral devices and conform to PPI format defined by the peripheral programming interface and do not require conversion. The example generic hardware interface system and the generic software interface system thus at a minimum allows transfer of data converted as necessary between the application program and the peripheral devices and .

In addition the example application programming interface defines API commands the example peripheral programming interface defines PPI commands and the peripheral devices define peripheral commands. If necessary the drivers convert the PPI commands into peripheral commands. Similarly the interface system is capable of converting API commands into PPI commands. The hardware system and software system thus allow control commands to be sent from the application program to the peripheral devices and . In some situations the API command may be the same as the peripheral command and the systems and simply pass the API command directly to the peripheral device and or . In other situations the API commands may differ from the PPI commands in which case the interface system may convert the API commands into corresponding PPI commands. In other situations the PPI commands may differ from the peripheral commands in which case the drivers may convert the PPI commands into corresponding peripheral commands. And in yet other situations one API command may correspond to a sequence of PPI commands in which case the interface system will handle the generation of the sequence of PPI commands based on the API commands. In still other situations one PPI command may correspond to a sequence of peripheral commands in which case the drivers will handle the conversion of the PPI command into the sequence of peripheral commands. And it may be possible that in some situations two or more conversions occur as an API command is transmitted through the software system to control a given peripheral device and or .

To provide maximum functionality to application programmers the API should be defined to provide access to a full range of actions that may be performed by the various peripheral devices. To design the API a list of peripheral actions that could reasonably be anticipated to be performed by one or more of the peripheral devices is initially created. For each peripheral action on the list an API command is defined. An API command can be a simple command that causes a single peripheral action and nothing more. An API command can be a parameter command that identifies a peripheral action and one or more parameters associated with that peripheral action. For programming ease certain API commands may be compound commands that can contain one or more simple commands and or parameter commands.

To provide maximum access by application programmers to the widest variety of makes and models of peripheral devices the PPI should be defined to communicate peripheral commands to a full range of peripheral devices. The design of the PPI should thus allow the generation of peripheral commands for as many peripheral devices as possible. Ideally PPI commands should be created to generate peripheral commands for all known peripheral devices. This is most easily accomplished by designing the peripheral devices to conform to the peripheral programming interface as generally discussed above. When one or more of the peripheral devices do not conform to the peripheral programming interface unsupported peripheral device a driver can be created for one or more makes and models of unsupported peripheral devices. With an appropriate driver the peripheral programming interface need not be rewritten and the application programmer may write the application program without concern that unsupported devices will cause the system to fail.

The example interface system handles transmission of data and commands between the application programming interface and the peripheral programming interface . The example interface system also performs logic steps when helpful or required to transmit such data and commands. For example if a given compound API command does not have a corresponding compound PPI command the interface system may determine that the given compound API command is not supported by the peripheral programming interface and emulate the compound API command with a sequence of PPI commands. The example interface system may further handle timing data structure and or other differences between the application programming interface and the peripheral programming interface .

Given the foregoing general description of the operation of the generic hardware interface system and the generic hardware interface system several examples of portable structures including specific hardware and software interface systems of the present invention will now be described with reference to .

Referring initially to of the drawing depicted therein is a bag comprising a peripheral system comprising a hardware interface system . The hardware interface system may be or incorporate the generic hardware interface system described above. The hardware interface system may also implement the function of the example generic software interface system described above. The example bag could be a purse briefcase laptop case or the like and will not be described in further detail below.

The example peripheral system further comprises an external power supply a zipper system a buckle system a wireless sensor and optionally an antenna . The example peripheral system may also further comprise a smartphone . The antenna extends outside of the bag and thus facilitates communication of the hardware interface system with the externally located smartphone . The antenna may be provided when the bag or a portion thereof is made of metallic material that would prevent the hardware interface system from communicating wirelessly with the smartphone . For example an external antenna is useful if the bag is metallic or blocks magnetic fields. In this case an external antenna could allow the internal signal to be transmitted to an external cell phone. Otherwise the antenna will most likely be built into the hardware. Alternatively the antenna could be external to the hardware and internal to the bag e.g. built into the interior lining of the bag .

The example external power supply is a battery but other sources of electrical power may be employed. For example if the bag has wheels the wheels may be connected to a generator that forms a power supply. If the bag is often moved or shaken the external power supply may be or contain a device that converts kinetic energy of the bag to electrical energy. Another alternative to a battery would be a solar power panel arranged to convert solar energy to electrical energy. Further while only a single external power supply is shown in two or more devices may be connected to the hardware interface system as shown for example with the example generic hardware interface system depicted in .

The example zipper system includes a mechanical zipper and a zipper controller capable of at least determining status of the mechanical zipper. For example the zipper controller may determine movement or location of a slider of the mechanical zipper or whether a latch not shown for holding the slider in a closed position is latched or unlatched. The zipper controller may further be capable of causing the zipper system to change state for example the zipper controller may contain an actuator for moving the zipper latch between the latched and unlatched configurations.

The example buckle system includes a mechanical buckle and a buckle controller capable of at least determining status of the mechanical buckle. For example the buckle controller may determine whether the mechanical buckle is latched or unlatched. The buckle controller may further be capable of causing the buckle system to change state for example the buckle controller may contain an actuator for moving the buckle latch between the latched and unlatched configurations.

The example wireless sensor may be a battery powered motion detector or the like. In the case of the bag the wireless sensor formed by a motion detector may send data to the hardware interface system indicating for example that the bag is moving. Two types of motion sensors may be used. The first would simply detect whether the bag itself moves. The second may be for example a NIR motion sensor similar to a motion sensor for a home that detects if someone is moving outside the bag. The use of a sensor for detecting movement external to the bag may have application in surrounding awareness theft warning or while camping detecting the presence of an animal near the campground or outside of a tent.

The smartphone is capable of communicating wirelessly with the hardware interface system . The smartphone further will run a downloadable software bag control application. The bag control application running on the smartphone may be or correspond to the application program described above. In this case the bag control application will wirelessly communicate with the application programming interface of the software interface system running on the hardware interface device as generally described above. The application will use a touchscreen buttons and speaker of the smartphone to allow the user of the bag to interface with the bag control application.

The smartphone running the bag control application thus allows the user to control parameters of the hardware interface device and allow the hardware device to communicate alerts alarms and other status information to the user. For example using the bag control application the user may set the parameters of the hardware interface system such that the hardware interface system notifies the user through the speaker whenever the smartphone is greater than a predetermined distance from the hardware interface system and or the wireless sensor indicates that the bag is moving. As another example the user may set the parameters of the hardware interface system such that the hardware interface system notifies the user through the speaker whenever the slider of the zipper system moves or the buckle of the buckle system is unlatched. If the zipper system contains an actuator for operating the zipper latch the user may use the hardware interface system to operate the zipper latch such that the slider of the zipper system may not be moved out of its closed position. This notification may be accomplished by causing the cell phone to make a sound vibrate and or illuminate the screen and or an integral or external LED light.

Referring now to of the drawing depicted therein is a backpack comprising a peripheral system comprising a hardware interface system . The hardware interface system may be or incorporate the generic hardware interface system described above. The hardware interface system may also implement the function of the example generic software interface system described above. The example backpack is or may be conventional and will not be described in further detail below.

The example peripheral system further comprises an external power supply a zipper system an electroluminescent panel a wireless sensor and a phone charger . The example peripheral system may also further comprise a smartphone . The exact number and type of peripherals e.g. zipper system electroluminescent panel and wireless sensor may vary depending on the nature of a particular system. For example although the example peripheral system comprises an electroluminescent panel other types of displays such as LCD LED OLED or the like may be used in addition or instead.

The example external power supply is a battery but other sources of electrical power may be employed. For example if the backpack has wheels the wheels may be connected to a generator that forms a power supply. If the backpack is often moved or shaken the external power supply may be or contain a device that converts kinetic energy of the backpack to electrical energy. Another alternative to a battery would be a solar power panel arranged to convert solar energy to electrical energy. Further while only a single external power supply is shown in two or more devices may be connected to the hardware interface system as shown for example with the example generic hardware interface system depicted in .

The example zipper system includes a mechanical zipper and a zipper controller capable of at least determining status of the mechanical zipper. For example the zipper controller may determine movement or location of a slider of the mechanical zipper or whether a latch not shown for holding the slider in a closed position is latched or unlatched. The zipper controller may further be capable of causing the zipper system to change state for example the zipper controller may contain an actuator for moving the zipper latch between the latched and unlatched configurations.

The example electroluminescent panel generates light when an appropriate power signal is applied thereto. A light detector such as the example light detector may be arranged to indicate to the hardware interface system whether ambient light is present to allow the interface system to control when the panel is illuminated.

The example wireless sensor may be a battery powered motion detector or the like. In the case of the backpack the wireless sensor formed by a motion detector may send data to the hardware interface system indicating that the backpack is moving. Alternatively the example wireless sensor may be a light detector for detecting when the inside of the backpack is dark.

The smartphone charger cable is arranged to allow charging of the smartphone in a conventional manner when required.

Optionally a pocket assembly may be provided to support the smartphone . The pocket assembly may be integrally formed with the backpack secured to the backpack by stitching or detachably attached to the backpack snap fit Velcro or the like. The pocket assembly may be a simple fabric pocket or may incorporate a sizing system and or a wireless charging system as will be described in further detail below with reference to and or .

The smartphone is capable of communicating wirelessly with the hardware interface system . The smartphone further will run a downloadable software backpack control application. The backpack control application running on the smartphone may be or correspond to the application program described above. In this case the backpack control application may communicate through the connector or may wirelessly communicate with the application programming interface of the software interface system running on the hardware interface device as generally described above. The application will use a touchscreen buttons and speaker of the smartphone to allow the user of the backpack to interface with the backpack control application.

The smartphone running the backpack control application thus allows the user to control parameters of the hardware interface device and allow the hardware device to communicate alerts alarms and other status information to the user. For example using the backpack control application the user may set the parameters of the hardware interface system such that the hardware interface system notifies the user through the speaker whenever the smartphone is greater than a predetermined distance from the hardware interface system and or the wireless sensor indicates that the backpack is moving. As another example the user may use the hardware interface system to turn the electroluminescent panel on and off remotely. As yet another example the hardware interface system may turn the electroluminescent panel on when light is needed and off when light is not needed based on the settings of the zipper controller and the wireless remote sensor .

Referring now to of the drawing depicted therein is a jacket comprising a peripheral system comprising a hardware interface system . The hardware interface system may be or incorporate the generic hardware interface system described above. The hardware interface system may also implement the function of the example generic software interface system described above. The example jacket is or may be any conventional article of clothing and will not be described in further detail below.

The example peripheral system further comprises an external power supply a zipper system a heating panel a wireless sensor and a phone charger . The example peripheral system also further comprises a smartphone and a wired user interface .

The example external power supply is a battery but other sources of electrical power may be employed. For example the external power supply may be or contain a device that converts kinetic energy of the jacket to electrical energy. Another alternative to a battery would be a solar power panel arranged to convert solar energy to electrical energy. Further while only a single external power supply is shown in two or more devices may be connected to the hardware interface system as shown for example with the example generic hardware interface system depicted in .

The example zipper system includes a mechanical zipper and a zipper controller capable of at least determining status of the mechanical zipper. For example the zipper controller may determine movement or location of a slider of the mechanical zipper or whether a latch not shown for holding the slider in a closed position is latched or unlatched. The zipper controller may further be capable of causing the zipper system to change state for example the zipper controller may contain an actuator for moving the zipper latch between the latched and unlatched configurations. The example zipper controller further comprises a button and a light . The button and light form a user interface that allows for example the user to enter data that operates the zipper system or other components of the peripheral system such as the heating panel . If used to operate the heating panel the user may press the button to energize or de energize the heating panel with the light lit to indicate that the heating panel is energized.

The example wireless sensor may be a battery powered motion detector or the like. In the case of the jacket the wireless sensor formed by a motion detector may send data to the hardware interface system indicating that the jacket is moving. Alternatively the example wireless sensor may be a temperature sensor for generating a temperature signal corresponding to the temperature inside the jacket .

The smartphone charger cable is arranged to allow charging of the smartphone in a conventional manner when required.

Optionally a pocket assembly may be provided to support the smartphone . The pocket assembly may be integrally formed with the jacket secured to the jacket by stitching or detachably attached to the jacket snap fit Velcro or the like. The pocket assembly may be a simple fabric pocket or may incorporate a sizing system and or a wireless charging system as will be described in further detail below with reference to and or .

The smartphone is capable of communicating wirelessly with the hardware interface system . The smartphone further will run a downloadable software jacket control application. The jacket control application running on the smartphone may be or correspond to the application program described above. In this case the jacket control application will wirelessly communicate with the application programming interface of the software interface system running on the hardware interface device as generally described above. The application will use a touchscreen buttons and speaker of the smartphone to allow the user of the jacket to interface with the jacket control application.

The smartphone running the jacket control application thus allows the user to control parameters of the hardware interface device and allow the hardware device to communicate alerts alarms and other status information to the user. For example using the jacket control application the user may set the parameters of the hardware interface system such that the hardware interface system notifies the user through the speaker whenever the smartphone is greater than a predetermined distance from the hardware interface system and or the wireless sensor indicates that the jacket is moving. As another example the user may use the hardware interface system to turn the heating panel on and off remotely. As yet another example the hardware interface system may turn the heating panel on and off based on a temperature signal and or battery capacity to control the heat within the jacket and or conserve or extend battery life.

The example wired user interface is located adjacent to the wrist for ease of access. The example wired user interface contains a touch screen that allows the user to send instructions and data to the hardware interface device and the hardware interface device to send prompts and status information to the user. The user may thus use the example wired user interface to control any element of the peripheral system by lifting one hand to the other wrist. For example the user may use the wired user interface to latch and unlatch the zipper system turn on and of the heating panel and or control a phone or music player of the smartphone .

Referring now to of the drawing depicted therein is a tent comprising a peripheral system comprising a hardware interface system . The hardware interface system may be or incorporate the generic hardware interface system described above. The hardware interface system may also implement the function of the example generic software interface system described above. The example tent is or may be any conventional camping structure and will not be described in further detail below.

The example peripheral system further comprises an external power supply a zipper system a light a wireless sensor and a phone charger . The example peripheral system also further comprises a smartphone .

The example external power supply is a battery but other sources of electrical power may be employed. For example the external power supply may be or contain a device that converts kinetic energy of the tent to electrical energy. Another alternative to a battery would be a solar power panel arranged to convert solar energy to electrical energy. Further while only a single external power supply is shown in two or more devices may be connected to the hardware interface system as shown for example with the example generic hardware interface system depicted in .

The example zipper system includes a mechanical zipper and a zipper controller capable of at least determining status of the mechanical zipper. For example the zipper controller may determine movement or location of a slider of the mechanical zipper or whether a latch not shown for holding the slider in a closed position is latched or unlatched. The zipper controller may further be capable of causing the zipper system to change state for example the zipper controller may contain an actuator for moving the zipper latch between the latched and unlatched configurations.

The example wireless sensor may be a battery powered motion detector or the like. In the case of the tent the wireless sensor formed by a motion detector may sending a movement signal to the hardware interface system indicating that there is movement within the tent . Alternatively the example wireless sensor may be a temperature sensor for generating a temperature signal corresponding to the temperature inside the tent .

The smartphone charger cable is arranged to allow charging of the smartphone in a conventional manner when required.

Optionally a pocket assembly may be provided to support the smartphone . The pocket assembly may be integrally formed with the tent secured to the tent by stitching or detachably attached to the tent snap fit Velcro or the like. The pocket assembly may be a simple fabric pocket or may incorporate a sizing system and or a wireless charging system as will be described in further detail below with reference to and or .

When used with a tent such as the example tent the peripheral system may also comprise or be adapted to be connected to a solar panel supported by or forming a part of the tent . Such a solar panel would be incorporated into the peripheral system in a manner similar to that of the solar panel described above to charge the battery and or directly provide power to the peripherals and and or the smartphone . In this case a power DC DC converter may be incorporated into or connected to the peripheral system . A converter incorporated into the peripheral system may be incorporated into the hardware interface system .

With the example peripheral system the smartphone may be used as a controller for any of the peripherals forming a part of the peripheral system . For example the smartphone may be used as a controller for the light through a wired or wireless communication link to the hardware interface system . In addition or instead a photo sensor may be used as part of the peripheral system to regulate lighting within the tent according to a user selected lighting profile. For example if there was adequate sun light the hardware would turn the interior lighting off but as the sun went down the hardware could automatically detect this and turn on the interior tent lights. Also to conserve power the tent lighting could be automatically turned off if the user walked away from the hardware interface system while carrying the phone .

The smartphone is capable of communicating wirelessly with the hardware interface system . The smartphone further will run a downloadable software tent control application. The tent control application running on the smartphone may be or correspond to the application program described above. In this case the tent control application will wirelessly communicate with the application programming interface of the software interface system running on the hardware interface device as generally described above. The application will use a touchscreen buttons and speaker of the smartphone to allow the user of the tent to interface with the tent control application.

The smartphone running the tent control application thus allows the user to control parameters of the hardware interface device and allow the hardware device to communicate alerts alarms and other status information to the user. For example using the tent control application the user may set the parameters of the hardware interface system such that the hardware interface system notifies the user through the speaker whenever the smartphone is greater than a predetermined distance from the hardware interface system and or the wireless sensor indicates that the tent is moving. As another example the user may use the hardware interface system to turn the light on and off remotely. As yet another example the hardware interface system may turn the light on and off based on a movement signal and or battery capacity to control the heat within the tent and or conserve or extend battery life.

Referring now to of the drawing depicted therein is a backpack comprising a peripheral system comprising a hardware interface system . The hardware interface system may be or incorporate the generic hardware interface system described above. The hardware interface system may also implement the function of the example generic software interface system described above. The example backpack is or may be conventional and will not be described in further detail below.

The example peripheral system further comprises an external power supply a zipper system an electroluminescent panel a wireless sensor and a phone charger . The example peripheral system may also further comprise a smartphone . The example peripheral system further comprises a cable that extends from the hardware interface system to the zipper controller and then to the light panel . The cable may be a bundle of electrical connectors each extending from the hardware interface system to one of the zipper controller and the light panel .

Alternatively the cable may be a combination of power and data cables that allows power selectively to be supplied to one or both of the zipper controller and light panel and data to be transmitted between the hardware interface system and one or both of the zipper controller and light panel . For example a Universal Serial Bus USB or variant thereof with or without associated USB connectors may be used to connect the hardware interface system the zipper controller and light panel such that the hardware interface system can selectively supply power to the controller and panel and or transmit data to and or receive data from the controller and panel . The use of the example cable can simplify the construction of the hardware interface system and assembly of the backpack in comparison to the use of separate cables extending from the hardware interface system to each of the controller and panel . If a bus capable of supplying power and data e.g. USB is used a separate cable extending between the hardware interface system and the smartphone may be omitted in favor of a single cable that also extends to the smartphone power connector.

The exact number and type of peripherals e.g. zipper system electroluminescent panel and wireless sensor may vary depending on the nature of a particular system. For example although the example peripheral system comprises an electroluminescent panel other types of displays such as LCD LED OLED or the like may be used in addition or instead.

The example external power supply is a battery but other sources of electrical power may be employed. For example if the backpack has wheels the wheels may be connected to a generator that forms a power supply. If the backpack is often moved or shaken the external power supply may be or contain a device that converts kinetic energy of the backpack to electrical energy. Another alternative to a battery would be a solar power panel arranged to convert solar energy to electrical energy. Further while only a single external power supply is shown in two or more devices may be connected to the hardware interface system as shown for example with the example generic hardware interface system depicted in .

The example zipper system includes a mechanical zipper and a zipper controller capable of at least determining status of the mechanical zipper. For example the zipper controller may determine movement or location of a slider of the mechanical zipper or whether a latch not shown for holding the slider in a closed position is latched or unlatched. The zipper controller may further be capable of causing the zipper system to change state for example the zipper controller may contain an actuator for moving the zipper latch between the latched and unlatched configurations.

The example electroluminescent panel generates light when an appropriate power signal is applied thereto. A light detector such as the example light detector may be arranged to indicate to the hardware interface system whether ambient light is present to allow the interface system to control when the panel is illuminated.

The example wireless sensor may be a battery powered motion detector or the like. In the case of the backpack the wireless sensor formed by a motion detector may send data to the hardware interface system indicating that the backpack is moving. Alternatively the example wireless sensor may be a light detector for detecting when the inside of the backpack is dark.

The smartphone charger cable is arranged to allow charging of the smartphone in a conventional manner when required.

The example backpack comprises a pocket assembly to support the smartphone . The pocket assembly may be integrally formed with the backpack secured to the backpack by stitching or detachably attached to the backpack snap fit Velcro or the like. The example pocket assembly incorporates a sizing system and or a wireless charging system as will be described in further detail below with reference to and or .

The smartphone is capable of communicating wirelessly with the hardware interface system . The smartphone further will run a downloadable software backpack control application. The backpack control application running on the smartphone may be or correspond to the application program described above. In this case the backpack control application may communicate through the connector or may wirelessly communicate with the application programming interface of the software interface system running on the hardware interface device as generally described above. The application will use a touchscreen buttons and speaker of the smartphone to allow the user of the backpack to interface with the backpack control application.

The smartphone running the backpack control application thus allows the user to control parameters of the hardware interface device and allow the hardware device to communicate alerts alarms and other status information to the user. For example using the backpack control application the user may set the parameters of the hardware interface system such that the hardware interface system notifies the user through the speaker whenever the smartphone is greater than a predetermined distance from the hardware interface system and or the wireless sensor indicates that the backpack is moving. As another example the user may use the hardware interface system to turn the electroluminescent panel on and off remotely. As yet another example the hardware interface system may turn the electroluminescent panel on when light is needed and off when light is not needed based on the settings of the zipper controller and the wireless remote sensor .

Referring now to a first example pocket assembly of the present invention will be described. As perhaps best shown in the first example pocket assembly comprises an envelope member a transmitter antenna and an adjusting system .

The example envelope member is sized and dimensioned to accommodate smartphones of various sizes and defines a bottom panel front and rear panels and first and second side panels and an interior chamber and a top opening .

The example transmitter antenna is secured to the rear panel of the envelope member . The transmitter antenna is electrically connected to a power source such as any one of the hardware interface systems and described above. When energized the transmitter antenna generates an electromagnetic signal capable of transmitting power to a receiving antenna as will be described in further detail below. For the purposes of this discussion the first example pocket assembly will be described as part of the example peripheral system supported by the backpack and certain elements of the first example pocket assembly are also identified in .

The example adjusting system comprises a base portion a front portion a rear portion a first side portion and a second side portion . The transmitter antenna may optionally be secured to the rear portion of the adjusting system . The example base portion is a flat plate. The example front portion and the rear portion are inwardly curved towards each other and the first side portion and the second side portion are inwardly curved toward each other. At least the portions and are made of resiliently deformable material such that the example front portion resiliently opposes the example rear portion and the example first side portion resiliently opposes the example second side portion . The example portions and each define a proximal portion and and a distal portion and . The proximal portions and are closer together than the distal portions and and the proximal portions and are closer together than the distal portions and

The example adjusting system is arranged within the interior chamber such that the base portion is supported by the bottom panel the front portion is adjacent to the front panel the rear portion is adjacent to the rear panel the first side portion is adjacent to the first side panel and the second side portion is adjacent to the second side panel . Adhesive stitching or other means may be used to secure the adjusting system within the interior chamber . The envelope member is then secured to the backpack at an appropriate location and the top opening is accessed through a slit or narrow opening not shown in the backpack . Typically the pocket assembly is completely hidden except for what is visible through the slit or narrow opening.

In use a smartphone or is inserted into the top opening such that a front surface of the smartphone engages the front portion a rear surface of the smartphone engages the rear portion a first side surface of the smartphone engages the first side portion and a second side surface of the smartphone engages the second side portion . In particular the smartphone initially engages the distal portions and and deforms the portions and until the smartphone eventually engages the proximal portions and

The proximal portions and substantially center the smartphone within the interior chamber so long as the size and dimensions of the smartphone fall within a predetermined range. illustrate the relatively small smartphone held within the interior chamber and illustrate the relatively large smartphone held within the interior chamber .

Referring now to a second example pocket assembly of the present invention will be described. The second example pocket assembly comprises an envelope member a transmitter antenna and an adjusting system .

The example envelope member is sized and dimensioned to accommodate smartphones of various sizes and defines a bottom panel front and rear panels and first and second side panels and an interior chamber and a top opening .

The example transmitter antenna is secured to the rear panel of the envelope member . The transmitter antenna is electrically connected to a power source such as any one of the hardware interface systems and described above. When energized the transmitter antenna generates an electromagnetic signal capable of transmitting power to a receiving antenna as will be described in further detail below.

The example adjusting system comprises first and second elastic bands and . The first and second elastic bands and are arranged at first and second spaced locations between the bottom panel and the top opening .

The envelope member is secured to the bag backpack jacket tent or backpack at an appropriate location. For certain structures the top opening is accessed through a slit or narrow opening not shown in the structure. The pocket assembly is typically completely hidden except for what is visible through the slit or narrow opening.

In use a smartphone or is inserted into the top opening such that smartphone extends through the first and second elastic bands and . The elastic band and are deformable such that they expand to snugly receive either the relatively small phone or the relatively large phone

Referring now to a third example pocket assembly of the present invention will be described. The third example pocket assembly comprises an envelope member and a transmitter antenna . The material from which the envelope member is resiliently flexible such that the envelope member forms an adjusting system .

The example envelope member is sized and dimensioned to accommodate smartphones of various sizes and defines a bottom panel front and rear panels and first and second side panels and an interior chamber and a top opening .

The example transmitter antenna is secured to the rear panel of the envelope member . The transmitter antenna is electrically connected to a power source such as any one of the hardware interface systems and described above. When energized the transmitter antenna generates an electromagnetic signal capable of transmitting power to a receiving antenna as will be described in further detail below.

The envelope member is secured to the bag backpack jacket tent or backpack at an appropriate location. For certain structures the top opening is accessed through a slit or narrow opening not shown in the structure. The pocket assembly is typically completely hidden except for what is visible through the slit or narrow opening.

In use a smartphone or is inserted into the top opening such that smartphone expands the material forming the envelope member such that the envelop member expands to snugly receive either the relatively small phone or the relatively large phone

Referring now to a fourth example pocket assembly of the present invention will be described. The fourth example pocket assembly comprises an envelope member and a transmitter antenna system . Like the third example pocket assembly described above the material from which the envelope member is resiliently flexible such that the envelope member forms an adjusting system . However the principles of the fourth example pocket assembly may be implemented using the adjusting systems of the first and second example pocket assemblies and described above.

The example envelope member is sized and dimensioned to accommodate smartphones of various sizes and defines a bottom panel front and rear panels and first and second side panels and an interior chamber and a top opening .

The example transmitter antenna system comprises first second and third transmitter antennas and that are secured to the rear panel of the envelope member . The transmitter antennas and are electrically connected to a power source such as any one of the hardware interface systems and described above. When energized the transmitter antennas and generate electromagnetic signals capable of transmitting power to a receiving antenna as will be described in further detail below.

The envelope member is secured to the bag backpack jacket tent or backpack at an appropriate location. For certain structures the top opening is accessed through a slit or narrow opening not shown in the structure. The pocket assembly is typically completely hidden except for what is visible through the slit or narrow opening.

In use a smartphone or is inserted into the top opening such that smartphone expands the material forming the envelope member such that the envelop member expands to snugly receive either the relatively small phone or the relatively large phone

Referring now to of the drawing depicted therein is an example hardware interface system of the present invention. The example hardware interface system comprises a housing defining first and second hook projections and defining a hook slot and a hook opening . A strap or the like not shown in may be slid through the hook slot and twisted into the hook opening such that the housing is securely and detachably supported by the strap.

The example housing also supports a display and defines a slider control and a selection control . The display displays information under control of a hardware interface software system running on the hardware interface system . The slider control is a touch sensor button that allows the user to change screens displayed on the display with a finger swipe. The selection control is a touch sensor button that allows the user to select options functions etc. displayed by the display .

Extending from the housing are first and second cables and . The first cable connects the hardware interface system to a battery not visible in . The second cable connects the hardware interface system to peripherals smartphones etc. as described herein and transmits power to and transmits and receives commands and data with the peripherals smartphones etc. Formed in the example housing are first and second connector ports and that may be used to connect cables not shown in for transferring power data and commands to external devices such as portable electronic devices e.g. smartphones power supplies utility power outlets chargers solar panels and the like.

The hardware interface system and software interface system described above may be configured to manage power generated from external sources. For example a DC DC converter may receive power from a solar panel supported by a movable structure incorporating the principles of the present invention and store that power in a battery for use as generally described above. An AC DC converter may receive power from the wheels of a rolling carry on bag. As yet another alternative the interface systems and could further manage and distribute power from kinetic power generation e.g. shake for power products such kinetic power generators generate power when a backpack is carried from the user s movement.

The use of electromechanical fabric is desired by bag makers to allow the bags to be shaped and by garment makers to allow clothing to be shaped. The hardware interface system and software interface system described above may be configured to utilize Electromechanical Fabric control yielding a sensor sensing something most likely about the person or environment.

Smart fabrics are wearable weaveable and stretchable and include sensing response capability which is frequently based on electrical measurement. For example a single walled carbon nanotube coated cotton yarn SWNT CY exhibits negative piezoresistance due to mechanical contact between fabric fibers which leads to better electrical paths of SWNT networks. The gauge factor the ratio of the normalized change in piezoresistance to the change in strain of SWNT CY is measured to be 24 which is negative and an order of magnitude higher than that for conventional metal strain gauges. The effective barrier strength of strained SWNT CY is measured to be 30 lower than that of unstrained SWNT CY. This characteristic may offer new design opportunities for wearable electronics and has significant implications for sensor applications and can be incorporated by the example hardware interface system and or example software interface system .

This feature may be used for example with women s bags and garments. Women s handbags often have a slouchy hammock shape for fashion reasons they would like them to straighten and hold a more rigid shape when the woman wants to open them and find things then relax again when she s carrying it for a stylish look. Daypack and business bag makers would like the opposite they want the bags to relax when being loaded with files laptops etc. but then draw up tight into clean shapes when being carried. Currently most daypacks look like bean bag chairs with shoulder straps. They want them to be more sculpted and sleek when carried. Electromechanical fabric would draw the bag up tight sharpening the appearance of the bag when full and making the center of gravity closer to the person carrying the bag for easier carrying. Garment makers want to make electromechanical clothing both next to skin garments and things like dresses as well as outerwear like rain jackets they would like them to relax for the user to don the garment then draw up close to create a flattering less baggy shape.

The hardware interface system and software interface system described above may be configured to utilize sensors such as those implemented using the smart fabrics described above. For example a rain jacket that increases it s waterproofness when it s raining fabric weave tightens but becomes more breathable when dry not raining because the fabric weave relaxes. Alternatively a runner s light daypack or waist pack may sense the runners physical state during the run. Bio sensing sensors human skin sensors or the like can be incorporated into the systems and . Sensors to determine whether the bag pockets are open if the bag is moving if the bag got dropped violently to indicate whether handles are retracted or to retract handles whether zippers are hidden or to hide zippers whether buckles are exposed or to withdraw or emerge buckles may be used. The example hardware interface system and or example software interface system provide reliable power power management and wireless transmission of the data to sensors of various types.

The hardware interface system and software interface system described above may be configured to support the electrical heating or cooling of bags garments equipment. The heating of tents and sleeping pads would be desirable. Alternatively the cooling the interiors of handbags and other bags to protect electronics and food and women s makeup would be a feature that may be controlled by the example hardware interface system and or example software interface system .

The example hardware interface system and or example software interface system can be configured to provide communication assistance by forming a mobile hotspot and or enhancing wireless transmission.

The example hardware interface system and or example software interface system can be configured to allow onboard computing and or memory to be built into bags. For example an entire smartphone can be built into the bag with perhaps a watch and or earpiece being used as the interface for the smartphone. In this case a relatively screen may be formed on the side of the bag under a flap of the bag or the like.

As discussed above The example hardware interface system and or example software interface system can be configured to communicate with a smartphone app to allow even more sophisticated control such as programming customization of feature behavior or data transfer as with biometric data or sensor data from a runner s pack or similar .

