---

title: Method of supporting multi-frequency bands and electronic device supporting the same
abstract: An electronic device which operates in response to multi-frequency bands is provided. The electronic device includes an antenna, a reception module configured to amplify a signal received through the antenna and distribute the amplified signal according to the multi-frequency bands, and a circuit unit configured to process signals included in the multi-frequency bands.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09660737&OS=09660737&RS=09660737
owner: Samsung Electronic Co., Ltd.
number: 09660737
owner_city: Suwon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20150506
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 a of a Korean patent application filed on May 9 2014 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office and assigned Serial number 10 2014 0055399 the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure relates to an apparatus for processing signals with respective frequency bands in an electronic device for supporting multi frequency bands and a method of supporting the same.

An electronic device such as a smart phone or a tablet computer may transmit and receive radio signals with an external device and may perform various functions. Further an electronic device may transmit and receive signals corresponding to not only one frequency band but also multi frequency bands.

When an electronic device of the related art corresponds to multi frequency bands it may transmit a signal to its internal circuit through a separate signal line corresponding to each frequency band. In this case as the number of corresponding frequency bands is increased the number of corresponding signal lines in the electronic device may also increase. Therefore because a mounting space in which the signal lines are mounted is increased there may be problems such as deterioration in a wireless terminal.

The above information is presented as background information only to assist with an understanding of the present disclosure. No determination has been made and no assertion is made as to whether any of the above might be applicable as prior art with regard to the present disclosure.

Aspects of the present disclosure are to address at least the above mentioned problems and or disadvantages and to provide at least the advantages described below. Accordingly an aspect of the present disclosure is to provide an electronic device which may operate in response to multi frequency bands.

In accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure an electronic device which operates in response to multi frequency bands is provided. The electronic device includes an antenna a reception module configured to amplify a signal received through the antenna and distribute the amplified signal according to the multi frequency bands and a circuit unit configured to process signals included in the multi frequency bands.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure a signal receiving apparatus is provided. The signal receiving apparatus includes a conversion unit configured to convert a signal received through an antenna of an electronic device a connection unit including a number of signal lines connected to the conversion unit and a distribution unit configured to distribute signals transmitted through the connection unit among multi frequency bands which are processed in an internal circuit of the electronic device.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure a signal processing method performed in an electronic device is provided. The signal processing method includes converting a signal received through an antenna of the electronic device transmitting the converted signal through a number of signal lines distributing the transmitted signals according to corresponding multi frequency bands in the electronic device and processing the distributed signals.

Other aspects advantages and salient features of the disclosure will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description which taken in conjunction with the annexed drawings discloses various embodiments of the present disclosure.

Throughout the drawings it should be noted that like reference numbers are used to depict the same or similar elements features and structures.

The following description with reference to the accompanying drawings is provided to assist in a comprehensive understanding of various embodiments of the present disclosure as defined by the claims and their equivalents. It includes various specific details to assist in that understanding but these are to be regarded as merely exemplary. Accordingly those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that various changes and modifications of the various embodiments described herein can be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the present disclosure. In addition descriptions of well known functions and constructions may be omitted for clarity and conciseness.

The terms and words used in the following description and claims are not limited to the bibliographical meanings but are merely used by the inventor to enable a clear and consistent understanding of the present disclosure. Accordingly it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the following description of various embodiments of the present disclosure is provided for illustration purpose only and not for the purpose of limiting the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

It is to be understood that the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a component surface includes reference to one or more of such surfaces.

In the following disclosure the expressions include and comprise or may include and may comprise indicate disclosed functions operations or existence of elements but do not exclude one or more additional functions operations or elements. Also it should be further understood that the terms include and comprise or have as used herein specify the presence of disclosed features integers operations elements components or combinations thereof but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers operations elements components or combinations thereof.

The meaning of the expression or used herein includes any or all combinations of the words connected by the term or . For instance the expression A or B may include A B or both A and B.

The expressions such as 1st 2nd first or second and the like used herein may refer to various elements of various embodiments of the present disclosure but do not limit the corresponding elements. For instance such expressions do not limit the order and or priority of the corresponding elements. The expressions may be used to distinguish one element from another element. For instance both a first user device and a second user device indicate a user device but indicate different user devices from each other. For example a first component may be referred to as a second component and vice versa without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

It will be understood that when an element is referred to as being connected or coupled to another element it can be directly connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly connected or directly coupled to another element it should be understood that there are no intervening elements.

Terms used in this specification are used to describe specified embodiments of the present disclosure and are not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure.

Unless otherwise defined all the terms used herein which include technical or scientific terms may have the same meaning that is generally understood by a person skilled in the art. It will be further understood that terms which are defined in a dictionary and commonly used should also be interpreted as is customary in the relevant related art and not in an idealized or overly formal detect unless expressly so defined herein in various embodiments of the present disclosure.

Electronic devices according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be devices including communication functions. For example the electronic devices may include at least one of smart phones tablet personal computers PCs mobile phones video telephones electronic book readers desktop PCs laptop PCs netbook computers personal digital assistants PDAs portable multimedia players PMPs Motion Picture Experts Group MPEG 1 or MPEG 2 Audio Layer 3 MP3 players mobile medical devices cameras wearable devices e.g. head mounted devices HMDs such as electronic glasses an electronic apparel electronic bracelets electronic necklaces electronic appcessories electronic tattoos and smart watches and the like.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic devices may be smart home appliances including communication functions. The smart home appliances may include at least one of for example televisions TVs digital versatile disc DVD players audios refrigerators air conditioners cleaners ovens microwave ovens washing machines air cleaners set top boxes TV boxes e.g. Samsung HomeSync Apple TV or Google TV game consoles electronic dictionaries electronic keys camcorders and electronic picture frames.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic devices may include at least one of medical devices e.g. a magnetic resonance angiography MRA a magnetic resonance imaging MRI a computed tomography CT scanners ultrasonic devices and the like navigation devices global positioning system GPS receivers event data recorders EDRs flight data recorders FDRs vehicle infotainment devices electronic equipment for vessels e.g. navigation systems gyrocompasses and the like avionics security devices head units for vehicles industrial or home robots automatic teller s machines ATMs and points of sales POSs .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic devices may include at least one of parts of furniture or buildings structures having communication functions electronic boards electronic signature receiving devices projectors and measuring instruments e.g. water meters electricity meters gas meters wave meters and the like . The electronic devices according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be one or more combinations of the above mentioned devices. Furthermore the electronic devices according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be flexible devices. It should be obvious to those skilled in the art that electronic devices according to various embodiments of the present disclosure are not limited to the above mentioned devices.

Hereinafter electronic devices according to various embodiments of the present disclosure will be described with reference to the accompanying drawings. The term user used herein may refer to a person who uses an electronic device or may refer to a device e.g. an artificial electronic device that uses an electronic device.

Referring to an electronic device may include a bus a processor a memory an input and output interface a display a communication interface and an application control module .

The bus may be a circuit which may connect the above mentioned components with each other and may transmit communication e.g. a control message between the above mentioned components.

For example the processor may receive instructions from the above mentioned other components e.g. the memory the input and output interface the display the communication interface the application control module and the like through the bus . Further the processor may decode the received instructions and may perform calculation or data processing according to the decoded instructions.

The memory may store instructions or data which are received from the processor or other components e.g. the input and output interface the display the communication interface or the application control module and the like or are generated by the processor or the other components. The memory may include programming modules such as a kernel a middleware an application programming interface API an application s and the like. The above mentioned respective programming modules may be configured with software firmware hardware or at least two or more combinations thereof.

The kernel may control or manage system resources e.g. the bus the processor or the memory and the like used to execute an operation or function implemented in the other programming modules for example the middleware the API or the application . Also the kernel may provide an interface which may access a separate component of the electronic device in the middleware the API or the application and may control or manage the separate component.

The middleware may play a role as a go between such that the API or the application communicates with the kernel and transmits and receives data. Also the middleware may perform control e.g. scheduling or load balancing with respect to work requests using a method of assigning priority which may use system resources the bus the processor or the memory and the like of the electronic device to for example at least one of the application s in association with the work requests received from the application .

The API may be an interface in which the application controls a function provided from the kernel or the middleware . For example the API may include at least one interface or function e.g. an instruction for file control window control image processing text control and the like.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the applications may include a short message service SMS multimedia message service MMS application an e mail application a calendar application an alarm application a health care application e.g. an application for measuring quantity of exercise or blood sugar and the like or an environment information application e.g. an application for providing atmospheric pressure information humidity information or temperature information and the like and the like. Additionally or alternatively the application may be an application associated with exchanging information between the electronic device and an external electronic device e.g. an electronic device or a server . The application associated with exchanging the information may include for example a notification relay application for transmitting designated information to the external electronic device or a device management application for managing the external electronic device.

For example the notification relay application may include a function of transmitting notification information which is generated by another application e.g. the SMS MMS application the e mail application the health care application or the environment information application and the like of the electronic device to the external electronic device e.g. the electronic device or the server . Additionally or alternatively the notification relay application may receive notification information from for example the external electronic device e.g. the electronic device or the server and may provide the received notification information to a user of the electronic device . For example the device management application may manage e.g. install delete or update a function e.g. a function of turning on off the external electronic device itself or partial components or a function of adjusting brightness or resolution of the display for at least a part of the external electronic device e.g. the electronic device or the server which communicates with the electronic device an application which operates in the external electronic device or a service e.g. a call service or a message service provided from the external electronic device.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the application may include an application specified according to attributes e.g. a kind of the electronic device of the external electronic device the electronic device or the server . For example when the external electronic device is an MP3 player the application may include an application associated with playing music. Similarly when the external electronic device is a mobile medical device the application may include an application associated with health care. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the application may include at least one of an application specified in the electronic device and an application received from the external electronic device e.g. the electronic device or the server .

The input and output interface may transmit instructions or data input from the user through an input and output device e.g. a sensor a keyboard or a touch screen to for example the processor the memory the communication interface or the application control module through the bus . For example the input and output interface may provide data about a touch of the user which is input through the touch screen to the processor . Also the input and output interface may output instructions or data received from for example the processor the memory the communication interface or the application control module through the bus through the input and output device e.g. a speaker or the display . For example the input and output interface may output voice data processed through the processor to the user through the speaker.

The display may display a variety of information e.g. multimedia data or text data and the like to the user.

The communication interface may perform communication between the electronic device and the external electronic devices e.g. the electronic device or the server . For example the communication interface may connect to a network through wireless communication or wire communication and may communicate with the external electronic device. The wireless communication may include at least one of for example Wi Fi communication Bluetooth BT communication near field communication NFC GPS communication and cellular communication e.g. long term evolution LTE LTE advanced LTE A code division multiple access CDMA wideband CDMA WCDMA universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS wireless broadband WiBro or global system for mobile communications GSM and the like . The wire communication may include at least one of a universal serial bus USB a high definition multimedia interface HDMI a recommended standard 232 RS 232 and a plain old telephone service POTS .

An additional description will be given later for a configuration of the communication interface with reference to .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the network may be a telecommunications network. The telecommunications network may include at least one of a computer network the Internet the Internet of things and a telephone network. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure protocols a transport layer protocol a data link layer protocol or a physical layer protocol and the like for communication between the electronic device and the external electronic device may be supported in at least one of the application the API the middle ware the kernel and the communication interface .

The application control module may process at least some of information obtained from other elements e.g. the processor the memory the input and output interface or the communication interface and the like and may provide the processed information to the user by various methods. The application control module may select and control applications to obtain information various sensors or elements which are mounted in the electronic device or to process information obtained therefrom.

Referring to a communication interface may include an antenna a transmission module a reception module and a circuit unit . Herein the reception module or the transmission module may be only separated according to its function and may be implemented with a shape in which partial elements are shared or may be implemented with one chip.

The antenna may transmit and receive a signal e.g. a radio frequency RF signal for an electronic device of . The antenna may transmit a signal processed through the transmission module to an external electronic device e.g. an electronic device or a server of through a network of in the electronic device . Also the antenna may receive a signal of a specified frequency band from the external electronic device. The reception module may process the received signal and may provide the processed signal to the circuit unit e.g. an RF integrated circuit RFIC .

The transmission module may process a signal and transmit the processed signal to the external electronic device e.g. the electronic device or the server through the antenna . The transmission module may generate a transmission signal suitable for communication environments of the network by performing conversion such as amplification or filtering with respect to a data signal provided from the circuit unit .

The reception module may perform conversion such as filtering or amplification with respect to a signal received through the antenna and may provide the converted signal to the circuit unit . In various embodiments of the present disclosure the reception module may receive signals of various frequency bands from the external electronic device e.g. the electronic device or the server . The reception module may classify the received signals into signals included in frequency bands which may be processed in the circuit unit and may provide the classified signals to the circuit .

In various embodiments of the present disclosure the reception module may include a conversion unit a connection unit and a distribution unit . The conversion unit may filter or amplify a signal received through the antenna . The conversion unit may reduce or remove a noise signal from the signal received through the antenna . Also the conversion unit may amplify the signal received through the antenna to complement power lost in an internal transmission process. An additional description will be given later for the conversion unit with reference to .

The connection unit may transmit the signal converted through the conversion unit to the distribution unit . The connection unit may correspond to physical wires which transmit electric signals. In various embodiments of the present disclosure the connection unit may be implemented with a number which is less than the number of frequency bands which may be processed in the circuit unit . For example when the circuit unit may process signals with first to fourth frequency bands the connection unit may be implemented with two signal lines e.g. a high signal line and a low signal line or three signal lines e.g. a high signal line a middle signal line and a low signal line which is less than the number of frequency bands which may be processed in the circuit . An additional description will be given later for the connection unit with reference to .

The distribution unit may distribute the signal transmitted through the connection unit according to frequency bands which may be processed in the circuit unit . For example when the circuit unit may process signals with first to fourth frequency bands the distribution unit may determine whether the received signal is a signal included in any of the first to fourth frequency bands and may provide the determined signal to the circuit .

The circuit unit may process signals included in multi frequency bands. The circuit unit may allow the electronic device to efficiently correspond to various network environments in response to various frequency bands. In various embodiments of the present disclosure the circuit unit may be configured to be separated from a processor of or may be implemented with a module included in the processor .

Referring to a conversion unit may include a classification unit a filtering unit and an amplification unit .

The classification unit may classify a signal received through an antenna according to specified intervals. The intervals may be preset or may be determined by reflecting a frequency distribution range of the received signal. For example the classification unit may classify the signal received through the antenna as signals of two specified high and low intervals or signals of three specified high middle and low intervals. The classified signals may be transmitted to a circuit unit of through a connection unit of through a filtering or amplification process.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure the classification unit may set the interval to correspond to the number of signal lines included in the connection unit . For one example when there are two signal lines included in the connection unit the classification unit may classify a frequency band interval into two high and low intervals. For another example when there are three signal lines included in the connection unit the classification unit may classify a frequency band interval into three high middle and low intervals.

The filtering unit may filter the signals included in the intervals classified through the classification unit respectively. In various embodiments of the present disclosure the filtering unit may include a first switch a filter and a second switch .

The first switch may select the filter with a frequency band of a signal to be received and may connect an input terminal of the filter with the classification unit . For example when four signals to be received are included in a high interval the first switch may connect input terminals of the filter corresponding to the respective signals with the classification unit through four switches e.g. single pole four throw SP4T switches .

The filter may perform filtering for removing unnecessary signals such as noise signals included in the respective frequency signals.

The second switch may selectively provide the filtered signals to the amplification unit through its switching. The second switch may selectively connect output terminals of the filter to the amplification unit . In various embodiments of the present disclosure the second switch may be implemented with switching elements which are same as that of the first switch . For example when the first switch is implemented using SP4T switches the second switch may be also implemented using SP4T switches.

The amplification unit may amplify the filtered signals. The amplification unit may complement power loss which may be generated while the signals are transmitted to the circuit through the connection unit . The signals amplified through the amplification unit may be provided to a distribution unit of and the circuit unit through the connection unit .

Referring to in operation a classification unit of may classify a signal received through an antenna of according to specified intervals. The intervals may be preset or may be determined by reflecting a frequency distribution range of the received signal. In various embodiments of the present disclosure the classification unit may be implemented using a diplexer a triplexer and the like.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the classification unit may classify the signal received through the antenna into a number of signal intervals that is less than the number of frequency bands which may be processed in a circuit unit of . For example when the circuit unit may operate to correspond to each of first to fourth frequency bands the classification unit may classify the interval as two intervals e.g. a high interval and a low interval or three intervals e.g. a high interval a middle interval and a low interval . In this case because the number of signal lines corresponding to the respective intervals which are included in the connection unit may be less than the number of frequency bands which may be processed in the circuit unit a space on printed circuit board PCB for disposing the signal lines may be reduced.

In operation a filtering unit of may filter signals included in the respective intervals classified through the classification unit . The filtering unit may include a first switch a filter and a second switch of . In various embodiments of the present disclosure the second switch may switch signals to correspond to the number of signal lines included in the connection unit . For example when two signal lines e.g. the high signal line and the low signal line are included in the connection unit the second switch may classify and switch a frequency signal of a high interval and a frequency signal of a lower interval from the signal received through the antenna .

In operation an amplification unit of may amplify the filtered signals. In various embodiments of the present disclosure the amplification unit may be implemented with low noise amplifiers LNAs connected to the second switch .

Referring to a communication interface may include an antenna a reception module and a circuit unit . The reception module may include a conversion unit a connection unit and a distribution unit .

The conversion unit may classify a signal received through the antenna according to two specified intervals e.g. a high interval and a low interval . Signals included in the respective intervals may be filtered and amplified and the amplified signals may be transmitted to the circuit unit e.g. an RFIC through the connection unit . illustrates an example when the conversion unit classifies the signal according to the two intervals e.g. the high interval and the low interval . However the scope and spirit of the present disclosure may not be limited thereto.

The connection unit may include two signal lines corresponding to the two specified intervals e.g. the high interval and the low interval . illustrates an example when the connection unit includes the two signal lines. However the scope and spirit of the present disclosure may not be limited thereto. For example the number of signal lines may be increased according to the number of specified intervals.

The distribution unit may distribute the signals transmitted through the connection unit according to frequency bands which may be processed in the circuit unit . The distribution unit may be implemented with a diversity front end module Div FEM . The distribution unit may determine whether the received signals are signals included in any of N N is the number of frequency bands which may be supported in an electronic device of frequency bands which may be processed in the circuit unit and may provide the determined signals to the circuit unit . According to the related art because a distribution unit is disposed before a connection unit N signal lines are formed to correspond to N frequency bands. However the signal lines included in the connection unit according to an embodiment of the present disclosure may be formed according to only a number e.g. 2 corresponding to the intervals e.g. the high interval and the low interval classified through the conversion unit in the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure.

Referring to a conversion unit may include a classification unit a filtering unit and an amplification unit .

The classification unit may classify a signal received through an antenna according to specified intervals. The intervals may be preset or may be determined by reflecting a frequency distribution range of the received signal. The classification unit may classify the signal received through the antenna into signals of two specified high and low intervals. The classification unit may be implemented with a diplexer.

The filtering unit may filter the signals included in the high and low intervals classified through the classification unit respectively. The filtering unit may include a first switch a filter and a second switch .

The first switch may select the filter of frequency bands of signals to be received which are included in the high and low intervals and may connect input terminals of the filter with the classification unit . A switch of the first switch may switch respective frequency signals included in the high interval. A switch of the first switch may switch respective frequency signals included in the low interval.

The filter may perform filtering for removing unnecessary signals such as noise signals included in the respective frequency signals.

The second switch may selectively provide the filtered signals to the amplification unit through its switching. The second switch may selectively connect output terminals of the filter to the amplification unit . A switch of the second switch may switch frequency signals of the high interval. A switch of the second switch may switch frequency signals of the low interval.

The amplification unit may amplify the filtered signals. An amplifier of the amplification unit may connect to the switch and may amplify the frequency signals of the high interval. An amplifier of the amplification unit may connect to the switch and may amplify the frequency signals of the low interval. The amplification unit may complement power loss which may be generated while the signal is transmitted to a circuit of through a connection unit of .

Referring to a signal received through the antenna may include a plurality of frequency signals. The classification unit may classify the signals of an upper interval into signals of a high interval in the signal and may classify signals of a lower interval into signals of a low interval in the signal

The first switch may switch four frequency signals included in the high interval respectively and may switch four frequency signals included in the low interval respectively. The switch may switch the four frequency signals included in the high interval respectively. The switch may switch the four signals included in the low interval respectively. The switched signals may be transmitted to the circuit through a filtering or amplification process. illustrates an example when the four frequency signals are included in each of the high and low intervals. However the scope and spirit of the present disclosure may not be limited thereto.

Referring to a conversion unit may include a classification unit a filtering unit and an amplification unit .

The classification unit may classify a signal received through an antenna according to specified intervals. The intervals may be preset or may be determined by reflecting a frequency distribution range of the received signal. The classification unit may classify the signal received through the antenna into signals included in three specified high middle and low intervals. The classification unit may be implemented with a triplexer.

The filtering unit may filter the signals included in the high middle and low intervals classified through the classification unit respectively. The filtering unit may include a first switch a filter and a second switch .

The first switch may select the filter with frequency bands of signals to be received which are included in the high middle and low intervals and may connect input terminals of the filter with the classification unit . A switch of the first switch may switch respective frequency signals included in the high interval. A switch of the first switch may switch respective frequency signals included in the middle interval. A switch of the first switch may switch respective frequency signals included in the low interval.

The filter may perform filtering for removing unnecessary signals such as noise signals included in the respective frequency signals.

The second switch may selectively provide the filtered signals to the amplification unit through its switching. The second switch may selectively connect output terminals of the filter to the amplification unit . A switch of the second switch may switch frequency signals of the high interval. A switch of the second switch may switch frequency signals of the middle interval. A switch of the second switch may switch frequency signals of the low interval.

The amplification unit may amplify the filtered signals. An amplifier of the amplification unit may connect to the switch and may amplify the frequency signals of the high interval. An amplifier of the amplification unit may connect to the switch and may amplify the frequency signals of the middle interval. An amplifier of the amplification unit may connect to the switch and may amplify the frequency signals of the low interval. The amplification unit may complement power loss which may be generated while the signal is transmitted to a circuit of through a connection unit of .

Referring to an electronic device may include an antenna a conversion unit a connection unit and a circuit unit . Although it is not shown in the electronic device may further include a distribution unit between the connection unit and the circuit unit . In various embodiments of the present disclosure the distribution unit may be implemented to be included as a module in the circuit unit .

The antenna may receive a signal e.g. an RF signal for the electronic device . The conversion unit may be disposed to be adjacent to or otherwise nearby the antenna and may filter or amplify the signal received through the antenna .

The connection unit may provide the signal converted through the conversion unit to the circuit unit or the distribution unit . illustrates an example when the connection unit includes two signal lines e.g. a high signal line and a low signal line . However the scope and spirit of the present disclosure may not be limited thereto.

The respective signal lines included in the connection unit may be shielded in all directions by dielectric materials to prevent interference or influence with or on peripheral circuits or wires and the like. The more the number of signal lines included in the connection unit may be increased the more a space in which the corresponding signal lines are mounted may be increased. Also interference or influence with or on peripheral signals may be increased. In various embodiments of the present disclosure the connection unit may be implemented with a number which is less than the number of frequency bands which may be processed in the circuit unit . Therefore the electronic device may enhance space efficiency by reducing the number of signal lines.

The circuit unit or the distribution unit may be disposed to be relatively distant from the antenna and may connect with the conversion unit through the physical signal lines e.g. the connection unit to achieve electric connection. The distribution unit not shown may be disposed between the circuit unit and the connection unit and may distribute signals transmitted through the connection unit according to frequency bands which may be processed in the circuit unit .

Referring to a connection unit of may include two signal lines e.g. a high signal line and a low signal line . The signal lines may be shielded in all directions by dielectric materials to prevent interference or influence with or on peripheral circuits or wires and the like. In this case each of the signal lines may form a clearance from a peripheral signal line or a wire region to be shielded. Each of the signal lines may reduce influence with another electric signal which flows in a PCB through the clearance . A shielding region may be expanded to a peripheral region in consideration of a region which is removed by fill cut.

According to the related art when a circuit unit is implemented to correspond to first to fourth frequency bands there is a problem in that four signal lines are needed and a space where the respective signal lines are mounted in a PCB is increased. Also there is a problem in that the respective signal lines have an influence on wires of other components. On the other hand in case of various embodiments of the present disclosure although a number of corresponding frequency bands which may be processed in a circuit unit is increased the signal lines included in the connection unit may be maintained as a specific number or less e.g. or thereby enhancing space efficiency in an electronic device of .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the connection unit may be implemented such that two signal lines correspond to one interval. For example when a conversion unit classifies a signal into signals of two high and low intervals a first signal line and a second signal line may correspond to the high interval. Also a third signal line and a fourth signal line may correspond to the low interval. In this case the first signal line and the second signal line or the third signal line and the fourth signal line may be set to have opposite phases to each other and may be implemented with a shape which is strong to noise.

Referring to an electronic device may include one or more application processors APs a communication module a subscriber identification module SIM card a memory a sensor module an input device a display an interface an audio module a camera module a power management module a battery an indicator and a motor .

The AP may run an operating system OS or an application program to control a plurality of hardware or software components connected to the AP and may process and compute a variety of data including multimedia data. The AP may be implemented with for example a system on chip SoC . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the AP may further include a graphic processing unit GPU not shown .

The communication module may transmit and receive data through communication between the electronic device and other electronic devices connected thereto through a network. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the communication module may include a cellular module a Wi Fi module a BT module a GPS module an NFC module and an RF module .

The cellular module may provide a voice call service a video call service a text message service or an Internet service and the like through a communication network e.g. an LTE network an LTE A network a CDMA network a WCDMA network a UMTS network a WiBro network a GSM network and the like . Also the cellular module may identify and authenticate an electronic device within a communication network using for example a SIM e.g. the SIM card . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the cellular module may perform at least a part of functions which may be provided by the AP . For example the cellular module may perform at least a part of a multimedia control function.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the cellular module may include a communication processor CP . Also the cellular module may be implemented with for example an SoC. Though components such as the cellular module e.g. a CP the memory or the power management module and the like are illustrated as being components independent of the AP in according to an embodiment of the present disclosure the AP may be implemented to include at least a part e.g. the cellular module of the above mentioned components.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the AP or the cellular module e.g. a CP may load an instruction or data received from nonvolatile memories respectively connected thereto or from at least one of other elements into a volatile memory to process the instruction or data. Also the AP or the cellular module may store data received from at least one of other elements or generated by at least one of other elements in a nonvolatile memory.

Each of the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may include for example a processor for processing data transmitted and received through the corresponding module. In an embodiment of the present disclosure is exemplified as the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module are separate blocks respectively. However according to an embodiment of the present disclosure at least a part e.g. two or more components of the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may be included in one IC or an IC package. For example at least a part e.g. a CP corresponding to the cellular module and a Wi Fi processor corresponding to the Wi Fi module of processors corresponding to the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may be implemented with one SoC.

The RF module may transmit and receive data for example an RF signal. Though not shown the RF module may include for example a transceiver a power amplifier module PAM a frequency filter or a low noise amplifier LNA and the like. Also the RF module may further include a component for example a conductor or a conducting wire and the like for transmitting and receiving an electromagnetic wave in a space in wireless communication. In an embodiment of the present disclosure is exemplified as the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module are implemented to share one RF module . However according to an embodiment of the present disclosure at least one of the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may transmit and receive an RF signal through a separate RF module.

The SIM card may be a card which includes a SIM and may be inserted into a slot formed at a specific position of the electronic device. The SIM card may include unique identification information e.g. an IC card identifier ICCID or subscriber information e.g. an international mobile subscriber identity IMSI .

The memory may include an internal e.g. an embedded memory or an external memory . The embedded memory may include at least one of for example a volatile memory e.g. a dynamic random access memory DRAM a static RAM SRAM a synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM and the like or a nonvolatile memory e.g. a one time programmable read only memory OTPROM a programmable ROM PROM an erasable and programmable ROM EPROM an electrically erasable and programmable ROM EEPROM a mask ROM a flash ROM a NAND flash memory or a NOR flash memory and the like .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the embedded memory may be a solid state drive SSD . The external memory may further include a flash drive for example a compact flash CF a secure digital SD a micro SD a mini SD an extreme digital xD or a memory stick. The external memory may be functionally connected with the electronic device through various interfaces. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may further include a storage or a storage medium such as a hard disk drive.

The sensor module may measure a physical quantity or may detect an operation state of the electronic device . The sensor module may convert the measured or detected information to an electric signal. The sensor module may include at least one of for example a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B an atmospheric pressure sensor C a magnetic sensor D an acceleration sensor E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G a color sensor H e.g. red green blue RGB sensor a biosensor I a temperature humidity sensor J an illumination sensor K an ultraviolet UV sensor M and the like. Additionally or alternatively the sensor module may further include for example an e nose sensor not shown an electromyography EMG sensor not shown an electroencephalogram EEG sensor not shown an electrocardiogram ECG sensor not shown an infrared IR sensor not shown an iris sensor not shown or a fingerprint sensor not shown and the like. The sensor module may further include a control circuit for controlling at least one or more sensors included therein.

The input device may include a touch panel a digital pen sensor a key or an ultrasonic input unit . The touch panel may recognize a touch input using at least one of for example capacitive resistive infrared and ultrasonic detecting methods. Also the touch panel may further include a control circuit. In case of the capacitive detecting method a physical contact or proximity recognition is possible. The touch panel may further include a tactile layer. In this case the touch panel may provide a tactile reaction to a user.

The digital pen sensor may be implemented for example using a method which is the same as or similar to receiving a user touch input or using a separate sheet for recognition. The key may include for example a physical button an optical key or a keypad. The ultrasonic input unit may be a device which allows the electronic device to detect a sound wave using a microphone e.g. a microphone and to determine data through an input tool generating an ultrasonic signal and may enable wireless recognition. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may receive a user input from an external electronic unit e.g. a computer or a server connected thereto using the communication module .

The display e.g. a display module of may include a panel a hologram device or a projector . The panel may be for example a liquid crystal display LCD or an active matrix organic light emitting diode AMOLED and the like. The panel may be implemented to be for example flexible transparent or wearable. The panel and the touch panel may be integrated into one module. The hologram device may show a stereoscopic image in a space using interference of light. The projector may project light onto a screen to display an image. The screen may be positioned in for example the inside or outside of the electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the display may further include a control circuit for controlling the panel the hologram device or the projector .

The interface may include for example an HDMI a USB an optical interface or a D subminiature . The interface may be included in for example a communication interface shown in . Additionally or alternatively the interface may include for example a mobile high definition link MHL interface an SD card multimedia card MMC interface or an infrared data association IrDA standard interface.

The audio module may convert a sound and an electric signal in dual directions. At least partial components of the audio module may be included in for example an input and output interface shown in . The audio module may process sound information input or output through for example a speaker a receiver an earphone or the microphone and the like.

The camera module may be a device which shoots a still picture and a moving picture. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the camera module may include one or more image sensors e.g. a front sensor or a rear sensor a lens not shown an image signal processor ISP not shown or a flash not shown e.g. an LED or a xenon lamp .

The power management module may manage power of the electronic device . Though not shown the power management module may include for example a power management IC PMIC a charger IC or a battery or fuel gauge.

The PMIC may be embedded in for example an IC or an SoC semiconductor. A charging method may be classified as a wired charging method or a wireless charging method. The charger IC may charge a battery and may prevent an overvoltage or an overcurrent from being input from a charger. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the charger IC may include a charger IC for at least one of the wired charging method and the wireless charging method. The wireless charging method may be for example a magnetic resonance method a magnetic induction method or an electromagnetic method. An additional circuit for wireless charging for example a coil loop a resonance circuit or a rectifier and the like may be further provided.

A battery gauge may measure for example the remaining capacity of the battery and voltage current or temperature thereof while the battery is charged. The battery may store or generate electricity and may supply power to the electronic device using the stored or generated electricity. The battery may include for example a rechargeable battery or a solar battery.

The indicator may display a specific state of the electronic device or a part e.g. the AP thereof for example a booting state a message state or a charging state and the like. The motor may convert an electric signal to mechanical vibration. Though not shown the electronic device may include a processing unit e.g. a GPU for supporting a mobile TV. The processing unit for supporting the mobile TV may process media data that is based on the standard of for example digital multimedia broadcasting DMB digital video broadcasting DVB or media flow and the like.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may operate in response to multi frequency bands. The electronic device may include the antenna the reception module configured to amplify the signal received through the antenna and distribute the signal according the multi frequency bands and the circuit unit configured to process the signals included in the multi frequency bands.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the reception module may include the conversion unit configured to convert the signal received through the antenna the connection unit including signal lines connected to the conversion unit and the distribution unit configured to distribute the signals transmitted through the connection unit among the multi frequency bands which may be processed in the circuit unit.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the conversion unit may include the classification unit configured to classify the signal received through the antenna according to specified intervals the filtering unit configured to filter the classified signals and the amplification unit configured to amplify the filtered signals. The classification unit may classify the signal as signals of the high and low intervals or signals of the high middle and low intervals. The classification unit may classify the signal as signals of intervals which have the same number as the number of the signal lines. The filtering unit may include the first switch configured to selectively switch the signals included in the intervals according to frequencies the filter configured to filter the switched signals respectively and the second switch configured to selectively provide the filtered signals to the amplification unit. The amplification unit may amplify the filtered signals according to the intervals respectively.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the signal lines may have a number which is less than the number of the multi frequency bands which may be processed in the circuit unit. The connection unit may be implemented such that two signal lines of opposite phases correspond to the respective intervals.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure a signal receiving apparatus may include a conversion unit configured to convert a signal received through an antenna of an electronic device a connection unit including a number of signal lines connected to the conversion unit and a distribution unit configured to distribute signals transmitted through the connection unit among multi frequency bands which may be processed in an internal circuit of the electronic device. The conversion unit may include a classification unit configured to classify the signal received through the antenna according to specified intervals a filtering unit configured to filter the classified signals and an amplification configured to amplify the filtered signals.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure a signal processing method may be performed in an electronic device. The signal processing method may include converting a signal received through an antenna transmitting the converted signal through a number of signal lines distributing the transmitted signals according to corresponding multi frequency bands in the electronic device and processing the distributed signals. The converting of the signal may include classifying the signal received through the antenna according to specified intervals filtering the classified signals and amplifying the filtered signals.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure an electronic device which operates in response to the multi frequency bands may enhance its space efficiency by reducing the signal lines for electrically connecting the antenna with the internal circuit.

Also according to various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic device may reduce a possibility that an operation error thereof will occur or a possibility that it will deteriorate and the like by reducing interference or influence with or on peripheral circuits or wires which may be generated by disposing a plurality of signal lines.

Each of the above mentioned elements of the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be configured with one or more components and names of the corresponding elements may be changed according to the type of the electronic device. The electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one of the above mentioned elements some elements may be omitted or other additional elements may be further included. Also some of the elements of the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be combined with each other to form one entity thereby making it possible to perform the functions of the corresponding elements in the same manner as before the combination.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure a first electronic device may include a communication module and a control module. The communication module may establish connection between the first electronic device and a second electronic device and may perform data communication between the first electronic device and the second electronic device. The control module may determine whether at least one function may be performed in the second electronic device and may determine a method of performing a function to be performed in at least one of the first electronic device and the second electronic device based on the determination.

The terminology module used herein may mean for example a unit including one of hardware software and firmware or a combination of two or more thereof. The terminology module may be interchangeably used with terminologies unit logic logical block component circuit and the like. The module may be a minimum unit of an integrated component or a part thereof. The module may be a minimum unit performing one or more functions or a part thereof. The module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example the module according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one of an application specific IC ASIC chip field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or a programmable logic device for performing certain operations which are known or to be developed in the future.

A non transitory computer readable recording medium according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include instructions which may be executed by a processor of a first electronic device. The instructions allow the processor to determine whether at least one function may be performed in a second electronic device to determine a method of performing the function based on the determination and to perform the function in at least one of the first electronic device and the second electronic device in the first electronic device.

While the present disclosure has been shown and described with reference to various embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

