---

title: Systems and methods for content placement, retrieval and management based on geolocation and other parameters
abstract: The present invention is in the technical field of geolocation. More particularly, the present invention is in the technical field of making content in the form of electronic data available for retrieval when a device has satisfied the Retrieval Range and other Rules which govern the ability to retrieve the content. Retrieval of Content by user devices may be based on Rules communicated by an App, Admin or third party interface and shall be contained and processed by an application interface engine.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09275074&OS=09275074&RS=09275074
owner: Tip Vyspots, LLC Vy
number: 09275074
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150729
---
The present invention claims priority to U.S. Provisional Pat. App. No. 62 059 560 titled Geo Located Content Placement Retrieval and Management filed Oct. 3 2014 the content of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention is in the technical field of geolocation. More particularly the present invention is in the technical field of making Content in the form of electronic data hence forth Content available for Retrieval when respective Retrieval has satisfied the Retrieval Range and within the criteria of Rules which govern the ability to Retrieve the Content. Retrieval of Content by User Devices may be based on Rules communicated by App Admin or third party interface and shall be contained and processed by an APIE defined herein .

As portable internet connected devices such as mobile phones tablets and laptops aka User Devices continue to evolve to provide Content to users the opportunity to share and distribute Content increases. In one situation Content can be Placed and its Retrieval controlled by explicitly determining the recipients perhaps by email address account identifier or by another unique identifier and transmitted directly to the User Device. In another situation Content can be Placed and its Retrieval controlled by specifying an access code which only valid recipients know. Typically the User Device placing the Content has distributed this access code manually or through an electronic communication to the intended recipient s . In another example the User Device placing the Content leaves the Content open to all users for Retrieval with other Rules or no Rules applied.

A need exists for Content to be Retrievable based on location. Specifically a need exists for system and methods that allow for the Retrieval of digital content based on a user s physical Geolocation.

Moreover a need exists for Content to be Placed by a user so as to be accessible by others when others are at or near the location of the Placed Content. Specifically a need exists for Content to be Placed and for Retrieval Rules to be associated with the Placed Content.

Moreover a need exists for Content to be Retrievable when a user is within a pre defined range of the Geolocation of the Content. More specifically a need exists for systems and methods that allow users to Retrieve Content when within the pre defined range of the Geolocation of the Content and that otherwise satisfies one or more other Rules for Retrieval.

The present invention is a technology allowing the Placement and Retrieval of Content at a specific physical location. Particularly the present invention is in the technical field of making Content available for User Device Retrieval when Retrieval is requested after satisfying the Geo Place Rules and any other Rules required to Retrieve such Content. Even more particularly the present invention relates to an APIE for placing Content into a Geo Place and with Retrieval Rules Retrieving all applicable Content. The APIE is an engine and a platform that is also for third party applications to use similar to the App through APIs. Content Placement can specify one or more Retrieval Rules for the Content to be Retrieved.

To this end in an embodiment of the present invention a system for associating digital content with a physical location is provided.

It is therefore an advantage and objective of the present invention to provide systems and methods for allowing Content to be Retrievable based on location.

Specifically it is an advantage and objective of the present invention to provide system and methods that allow for the Retrieval of digital Content based on a user s physical Geolocation.

Moreover it is an advantage and objective of the present invention to provide systems and methods that allow Content to be Placed by a user so as to be accessible by others when others are at or near the location of the Placed Content.

Specifically it is an advantage and objective of the present invention to provide systems and methods that allow Content to be Placed and for Retrieval Rules to be associated with the Placed Content.

Moreover it is an advantage and objective of the present invention to provide systems and methods that allow Content to be Retrievable when a user is within a pre defined range of the Geolocation of the Content.

More specifically it is an advantage and objective of the present invention to provide systems and methods that allow users to Retrieve Content when within the pre defined range of the Geolocation of the Content and that otherwise satisfies one or more other Rules for Retrieval.

The present invention is a technology allowing the Placement and Retrieval of Content once a User Device has satisfied the Geo Place Rules and any other Rules and parameters required by the APIE. Referring now to the invention in more detail wherein like numerals refer to like parts. The Content may be Retrievable by a user using a User Device as defined herein via an App via website via a third party application or as otherwise apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art.

Application Programming Interface Exchange APIE An engine and platform in which the exchange for an Application Programming Interface and electronic software applications communicate and process which may use computer devices servers databases programs storages Apps Admins and User Devices.

Application App The electronic software that is local to a User Device that processes and communicates with the APIE including third party Apps whether by program application program web application through a website or any network communication system.

Admin The electronic software that may include the following functions control modify delete reprocess process and communicate with APIE as well as other like functions as apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art.

Geolocation A geographic location or area measured by one of many technologies such as but not limited to Global Positioning System GPS wireless systems beacons location systems and other like technologies.

Retrieval Range The range Rule from a Geo Place or Event in which a User Device may Retrieve Content in respect to the Geolocation of the User Device such as the physical distance from the location of a Content of which the Content may be Retrieved by a User Device. A Retrieval Range generally does not need to verify if other Rules need to be satisfied.

Retrieval Rules The set of Rules for Content which shall be for an Event of Geo Places or a Geo Place and which when said Rules for Event Geo Place and or Content have been satisfied Content is Retrieved and or used by a User Device.

Rules One or many requirements set on a Geo Place and or Content and in which any part or in whole may be satisfied to release Content parts or in whole for use accordingly.

Unique Identifier UID Used by APIE to verify identify and or communicate with a user User Device App Content Geo Place Geolocation Event or third party registrations which can be unique and random keys registration codes encryptions or other like security measures.

User Device A mobile device using electronic communication and processing which can have one or more Apps and or access one or more websites and can communicate and process with APIE.

Specifically the User Device may have a user Interface Module that provides direct access to the APIE as illustrated in for Placement and Retrieval of Content. The Location Services Module ascertains the User Device s geographical location such as for example coordinates for associating with Content and for the Retrieval of Content. Multiple sensors and inputs may be utilized to obtain this information such as for example GPS Wi Fi sensors beacons or Bluetooth based sensors.

The Storage Device includes memory that may be used by the Processor . The Storage Device stores data utilized by the APIE . The Processor is a central processing unit and includes a Content Capture Module a Content Placement Module and a Content Sharing Module . The Content Capture Module allows the User Device to capture digital media including but not limited to URL text screen captures pictures video and audio. The Content Placement Module allows users to select Geolocations for Content which they may capture using the Content Capture Module or that may already be stored on the Storage Device . The Content Sharing Module allows the User Device to share Content Placed at Geolocations with other User Devices and also the use of the APIE under the parameters of said system and Rules if any.

The communication system in this example includes an Application Program Interface API Server which communicates with an Application Server to Retrieve and store data on a Database through Database Server . One such use for a network architecture as described herein is to Place and Retrieve Content or Geo Places and Rules which govern this Retrieval. In such an embodiment the Content Retrieval Module handles the interface of validating a User Device s geolocation against the Rules of Geo Places. If the User Device satisfies the Rules then the Geo Place is Retrieved and returned to the User Device . In such an embodiment the Content Storage Module handles the interface of receiving Geo Places and Rules from a User Device and storing the data within a Database .

Specifically the computer system may include components typical of computer systems that are known by those of ordinary skill in the art including a processor main memory static memory a video display an alpha numeric input device a user interface navigation device a drive unit a signal generation device all of which may be connected to each other through a main bus . Instructions may be processed via the processor and stored in one or more of the main memory static memory and or the machine readable medium on the drive unit . The network interface device may be connected to a network .

As a user Places Content associated with Geolocations the User may associate further Geo Place conditions and or meta data as follows. Specifically further conditions or meta data may include defining an Event as discussed in more detail below and or adding a title and or a longer description that may provide a contextual overview of the Content Placed. Moreover the Content may be defined by type or a category that defines the Content such as being defined as an audio file a picture file a video file a URL with or without page capture text or other like types or categories. In addition the Content may have the ability to be flagged to indicate the identity of the user that Retrieves the Content or provide a counter showing the number of times the Content has been Retrieved. Other like conditions or meta data may include a text field where information about the Content may be Placed a file name such as a field that specifies the location of files that correlate to Content or a retrieval notification flag that indicates to the user whether the Content is Retrieved. Other like conditions or meta data may be associated with the Content as may be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art.

According to the Content Placement call passes all of the provided parameters i.e. Content with Geolocation based Rules to the APIE which in turn validates all of the provided parameters. If a required parameter is omitted or is provided incorrectly or does not match the APIE generates one or more codes and returns them to the calling application .

If the required parameters are valid the Placed Content is added to APIE s associated database as shown in component and the Content is available for Retrieval.

The Placement of Content and subsequent association of the Content to a Geolocation may create a Geo Place for Retrieval by User Device s which may be done in any manner such as by accessing the APIE via an App browser or interface from any computing device.

For example referring again to a system of the present invention allows one or more users and User Devices to interact with the APIE for Placement of Content to form Geo Places. Specifically as Content is generated by Admin and User Devices the APIE may allow the user to access the APIE as shown in wherein the Content and associated Geo Places and associated Rules may be stored utilizing the Content Storage Module on the Application Server . A UID that provides access to the Content may be generated by the APIE and may be passed to a User Device for further use thereof by the user as described in more detail below.

Referring now to the invention in more detail illustrates a method for allowing a User Device to Retrieve an individual Content defined as a Geo Place. Specifically a User Device has sent a Retrieve Individual Content call to the APIE into one or more of the user s own applications i.e. third party applications . The APIE then processes the request and returns Result Codes indicating the result of the call.

After receiving the Retrieve Individual Content call the APIE validates the provided parameters. If a required parameter is omitted or is provided in incorrect format or does not match i.e. the provided Registration UID must be matched in the APIE the APIE generates one or more codes and returns them to the calling application in the form of Result Codes .

If the required parameters are valid and the APIE UID matches the APIE attempts to return the requested Content or Geo Place via the Return Requested Content step including for example the title description and the actual Content the text field or the physical file .

Specifically when the User Device running the App within the appropriate Retrieval Range or has crossed the Retrieval Range for Content as described below and all the needed Rules are satisfied APIE returns the Content via step the title description and text field file via the Return Result Code s step which will provide a URL associated with the Content for Retrieval. If the user who Placed the Content required a Retrieval notification the APIE sends a notification to the User Device of the user who Placed the Content. In processing the call the APIE increments tracking fields and other analytics metrics. In one embodiment the number of Retrievals is incremented.

When the User Device running the App is not within the appropriate Geolocation to Retrieve the Geo Place or Geo Places with Retrieval Range for the Content the APIE returns a code stating that the device is out of range for that Content.

Referring now to the invention in more detail illustrates Content Retrieval Method to a User Device with App . Specifically the User Device through the App has a call to the APIE .

Thus illustrates a method for allowing a User Device to Retrieve all Contents which the User Device satisfies each of Content s Rules in part or whole including for example the User Device s Geolocation. Specifically a User Device calls the APIE with a specific request for all Contents at a specific Geolocation via step . The APIE then processes the request and returns Result Codes indicating the result of the call. The parameters applicable to may apply here as well.

After receiving the request the APIE validates the provided parameters. If a required parameter is omitted or is provided in incorrect format or does not match i.e. the provided Registration UID must be matched in the APIE the APIE generates one or more codes and returns them to the calling application in the form of Result Codes .

If the required parameters are valid and the UID matches the APIE finds all Geo Places which the parameters satisfy the Rules for Geo Place and returns the Content to the User Device in the form of Contents including for example the titles descriptions and the Contents the text field or the files .

In an alternate representation of the present invention illustrates a method illustrating Content Placement and Content Retrieval in an embodiment of the present invention. Specifically the App via the User Device may generate Content as described above. The Content may be selected by the App for sharing notifying inviting and or communicating with others via the APIE via step . The Geo Place may also be selected by the User Device via step as well as any number of other Rules and parameters specified above with reference to . The Content may then be shared via the APIE where the Content and associated Geo Place and Rules information as well as other parameters may be stored via step .

At another point according to the method described in other User Devices may determine their Geolocation via step using Location Services Module as illustrated in and submit the device s Geolocation to the APIE Server as Geolocation Information . The APIE Server then processes this request and determines if the Geolocation Information satisfies the access criteria for the shared Content . If so the APIE Server returns the shared Content to the User Device to be displayed to the user via step .

Referring now to the invention in more detail illustrates in an embodiment of the present invention a method for providing User Device access to the Content that has been Placed in a Geo Place. In a first step the Geolocation of the User Device is performed via step followed by Retrieval of the Geolocation Rules of the Content via step . The Geolocation of the User Device is compared to the Geolocation Rules of the Content via step . If the User Device Geolocation satisfies the Content Rules as determined in step the Content is sent to the User Device . If not then the method ends without Retrieval of the Content by the User Device.

In an embodiment the Content may have an associated Retrieval Range. If the User Device running the App is within the Retrieval Range for Content and other Content Rules are satisfied such as for example the number of Retrieval times is less than any limit set by the user in this case Content provider and the date for the attempted Retrieval is after the provided available date and before the provided expiration date the APIE Server returns the Content in the App. If the user who Placed the Content required a Retrieval notification the APIE sends a call to App. The APIE increments tracking fields for the number of Retrievals as well as the number of times the APIE was called for the specific Content.

When the user Device is running the App within the appropriate Retrieval Range for the Content or when User Device has crossed a Retrieval Range but does not satisfy other Rules Rules are created by Admin and App and are short listed above the APIE shall not allow Retrieval of Content.

When the user Device running the App is not within the Retrieval Range for the Content or has not crossed the Retrieval Range for the Content the APIE will send a call for not satisfying the Geo Place Rules.

As a result of this a User Device may receive more information and or metadata on a Geo Place based on how close the User Device is to the Geo Place. This will allow a user to get information and or metadata for nearby Content that the User Device has not satisfied the Retrieval Range for and can get more as the User Device gets closer.

If there are no matching Geo Places the APIE performs a second search for Geo Places which support dynamic Retrieval Ranges as illustrated by step . Dynamic Retrieval Range allows the APIE to expand the predefined Retrieval Ranges for Geo Places in the circumstance that no other Content is near the User Device. This is particularly useful in large open environments such as mountains forests and deserts. If no Geo Places satisfy this criterion the process is over. If there are Geo Places with dynamic Retrieval Ranges the APIE will adjust the Retrieval Range to encompass the User Device s position thus satisfying the Retrieval Threshold of a Geo Place as illustrated in step . The APIE then sends the Content to the User Device as illustrated in step . The dynamic Retrieval Range allowances may be set by user APIE and or Admin.

Referring now to which is an illustration to visually present how more Retrievable Content may be available if no Content or not enough Content is available to a User Device when such User Device may be out of the Retrieval Range . This illustration is an example of the process in of dynamic Retrieval Ranges. This will allow the user to see more Content around them based on what is currently nearby to the User Device . For the example User Device will be able to use the Content even though User Device is outside Retrieval Range in this instance. Specifically the User Device may be outside the normal Retrieval Range of the Content . By following the method of the APIE analyzes whether there are Geo Places nearby that have dynamic Retrieval Ranges step . If so the APIE adjusts the Retrieval Range of the Content via step and then sends to the User Device via step the now discoverable and Retrievable Content .

Referring to for when a user Places Content using the App module the Geolocation Selection Module shall gather the Geolocation from User Device to create a Geo Place via Geo Place Selection Module . The selection of the Geolocation can be automatic based on the User Device s Geolocation information or the user can move the Placement of the Content to a different area via Geolocation Selection Module to create a Geo Place. When a user chooses to Place the Content in a different area the user shall have a placement range that is acceptable to Place within and this range is processed by the App module and Geolocation due to the parameters set by the APIE and or Admin and communicated to App.

Referring to which is an illustration to visually present a user s path and what Content may be available to user s User Library on the user s User Device. For an example represents a Geo Place Retrieval Range and Retrieval Rules for Content in this example the User Device must cross through the Retrieval Range and otherwise satisfy the Retrieval Rules of this Geo Place and use the Content within this Retrieval Range for user to have rights to it in the User Device s User Library. Also for an example may represent a second Geo Place Retrieval Range and Retrieval Rules for Content in this example the User Device must cross through the Retrieval Range and otherwise satisfy the Retrieval Rules of this Geo Place and use the Content within this Retrieval Range for user to have rights to it in the User Library of the User Device. Also for an example may represent a third Geo Place Retrieval Range and Retrieval Rules for Content in this example the User Device must cross through the Retrieval Range and other satisfy the Retrieval Rules of this Geo Place to access the Content but may be granted access to use the Content outside this Retrieval Range for user to have rights to it in the User Library of the User Device. In this set of examples if user did not use the User Device and App to access the Content in the Retrieval Ranges of and then user could only have Content if user has satisfied all other Rules for Content for use by user s User Library. With this path of user the User Device may receive notification of Content missed for and . The notification may notify user based on what Content was missed and how the user missed the Content and providing usage hints so that user may Retrieve and utilize use more Content. In this same set of examples of user path the user may further receive notifications of missed nearby Content. For example Content may have an associated Retrieval Range which was missed by the User Device as the user followed path . However because the Content was relatively close the User Device may still receive notifications of missed nearby Content even though the User Device did not cross through the Retrieval Range of Content . Notifications can be further shown in .

This is also to demonstrate a method to randomly and or dynamically notify users based on Geolocation user s activities users activities nearby activities Admin and or APIE to enhance and or gamify user s experience.

The systems and methods of the present invention may have other features known as social networking functionality including but not limited to the following. Specifically an App may include a chat feature that allows users the ability to chat with other users Admin the APIE and or outside parties as they are using the App or third party interfaces. An invite feature may be included that may allow a user to invite others to a particular Geo Place Geolocation or Event which may include many Geo Places that form in effect a Geo Fence to utilize Content during an open or a specified time period. The invited users may be able to accept maybe deny visit on their own or propose another time to meet.

Additionally a popularity feature may be included that allows a user to follow and to provide information on the activity of another user Content Geo Place Event or general Geolocation. Once the user is provided the rights to follow the user may be notified of changes and or interact therewith. Moreover the user may be given a thumbs up or thumbs down feature that allows the user to rate Content Geo Place Event or other portions thereof.

In addition a sharing feature may be included that allows a user to share Content Geo Place Event notification or another aspect of the system disclosed herein.

The user may further be provided with the ability to easily generate Content such as by providing the user via the App with Instant Video Instant Picture or Photo Instant Audio or other Content generating features such as URL capture screen capture or the like .

In addition a user may be provided the ability to define or create an Event where a plurality of Geo Places may be defined and associated therewith. The user may further be provided the ability to create an Event without physically being present in a particular Geolocation and further the user may have the ability to control the Event created such as providing specific Rules for Placement of Geo Places and other like control features.

It should be noted that various changes and modifications to the presently preferred embodiments described herein will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Such changes and modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention and without diminishing its attendant advantages. Further references throughout the specification to the invention are non limiting and it should be noted that claim limitations presented herein are not meant to describe the invention as a whole. Moreover the invention illustratively disclosed herein suitably may be practiced in the absence of any element which is not specifically disclosed herein.

