---

title: Cyclopropylamines as LSD1 inhibitors
abstract: The present invention is directed to cyclopropylamine derivatives which are LSD1 inhibitors useful in the treatment of diseases such as cancer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09527835&OS=09527835&RS=09527835
owner: Incyte Corporation
number: 09527835
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150212
---
The present invention relates to enzyme inhibitors which selectively modulate demethylase and uses therefor. Particular embodiments contemplate compounds and disease indications amenable to treatment by modulation of lysine specific demethylase 1 LSD1 .

Epigenetic modifications can impact genetic variation but when dysregulated can also contribute to the development of various diseases Portela A. and M. Esteller . Nat Biotechnol 2010. 28 10 p. 1057 68 Lund A. H. and M. van Lohuizen . Genes Dev 2004. 18 19 p. 2315 35 . Recently in depth cancer genomics studies have discovered many epigenetic regulatory genes are often mutated or their own expression is abnormal in a variety of cancers Dawson M. A. and T. Kouzarides . Cell 2012. 150 1 p. 12 27 Waldmann T. and R. Schneider . Curr Opin Cell Biol 2013. 25 2 p. 184 9 Shen H. and P. W. Laird . Cell 2013. 153 1 p. 38 55 . This implies epigenetic regulators function as cancer drivers or are permissive for tumorigenesis or disease progression. Therefore deregulated epigenetic regulators are attractive therapeutic targets.

One particular enzyme which is associated with human diseases is lysine specific demethylase 1 LSD1 the first discovered histone demethylase Shi Y. et al. 1. Cell 2004. 119 7 p. 941 53 . It consists of three major domains the N terminal SWIRM which functions in nucleosome targeting the tower domain which is involved in protein protein interaction such as transcriptional co repressor co repressor of RE1 silencing transcription factor CoREST and lastly the C terminal catalytic domain whose sequence and structure share homology with the flavin adenine dinucleotide FAD dependent monoamine oxidases i.e. MAO A and MAO B Forneris F. et al. 1 3 . J Biol Chem 2007. 282 28 p. 20070 4 Anand R. and R. Marmorstein . J Biol Chem 2007. 282 49 p. 35425 9 Stavropoulos P. G. Blobel and A. Hoelz 1. Nat Struct Mol Biol 2006. 13 7 p. 626 32 Chen Y. et al. 1 1 . Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 2006. 103 38 p. 13956 61 . LSD1 also shares a fair degree of homology with another lysine specific demethylase LSD2 Karytinos A. et al. . J Biol Chem 2009. 284 26 p. 17775 82 . Although the biochemical mechanism of action is conserved in two isoforms the substrate specificities are thought to be distinct with relatively small overlap. The enzymatic reactions of LSD1 and LSD2 are dependent on the redox process of FAD and the requirement of a protonated nitrogen in the methylated lysine is thought to limit the activity of LSD1 2 to mono and di methylated at the position of 4 or 9 of histone 3 H3K4 or H3K9 . These mechanisms make LSD1 2 distinct from other histone demethylase families i.e. Jumonji domain containing family that can demethylate mono di and tri methylated lysines through alpha ketoglutarate dependent reactions Kooistra S. M. and K. Helie . Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol 2012. 13 5 p. 297 311 Mosammaparast N. and Y. Shi . Annu Rev Biochem 2010. 79 p. 155 79 .

Methylated histone marks on K3K4 and H3K9 are generally coupled with transcriptional activation and repression respectively. As part of corepressor complexes e.g. CoREST LSD1 has been reported to demethylate H3K4 and repress transcription whereas LSD1 in nuclear hormone receptor complex e.g. androgen receptor may demethylate H3K9 to activate gene expression Metzger E. et al. 1 . Nature 2005. 437 7057 p. 436 9 Kahl P. et al. 1 2 . Cancer Res 2006. 66 23 p. 11341 7 . This suggests the substrate specificity of LSD1 can be determined by associated factors thereby regulating alternative gene expressions in a context dependent manner. In addition to histone proteins LSD1 may demethylate non histone proteins. These include p53 Huang J. et al. 53 1. Nature 2007. 449 7158 p. 105 8. E2F Kontaki H. and I. Talianidis 21 . Mol Cell 2010. 39 1 p. 152 60 STAT3 Yang J. et al. 3 . Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 2010. 107 50 p. 21499 504 Tat Sakane N. et al. 1 11 . PLoS Pathog 2011. 7 8 p. e1002184 and myosin phosphatase target subunit 1 MYPT1 Cho H. S. et al. 1 by histone demethylase LSD1 . Cancer Res 2011. 71 3 p. 655 60 . The lists of non histone substrates are growing with technical advances in functional proteomics studies. These suggest additional oncogenic roles of LSD1 beyond in regulating chromatin remodeling. LSD1 also associates with other epigenetic regulators such as DNA methyltransferase 1 DNMT1 Wang J. et al. 1 1 . Nat Genet 2009. 41 1 p. 125 9 and histone deacetylases HDACs complexes Hakimi M. A. et al. 35 . Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 2002. 99 11 p. 7420 5 Lee M. G. et al. . Mol Cell Biol 2006. 26 17 p. 6395 402 You A. et al. . Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 2001. 98 4 p. 1454 8 . These associations augment the activities of DNMT or HDACs. LSD1 inhibitors may therefore potentiate the effects of HDAC or DNMT inhibitors. Indeed preclinical studies have shown such potential already Singh M. M. et al. 1 . Neuro Oncol 2011. 13 8 p. 894 903 Han H. et al. 1 . PLoS One 2013. 8 9 p. e75136 .

LSD1 has been reported to contribute to a variety of biological processes including cell proliferation epithelial mesenchymal transition EMT and stem cell biology both embryonic stem cells and cancer stem cells or self renewal and cellular transformation of somatic cells Chen Y. et al. 1 1 . Crit Rev Eukaryot Gene Expr 2012. 22 1 p. 53 9 Sun G. et al. 1 . Mol Cell Biol 2010. 30 8 p. 1997 2005 Adamo A. M. J. Barrero and J. C. Izpisua Belmonte 1 . Cell Cycle 2011. 10 19 p. 3215 6 Adamo A. et al. 1 . Nat Cell Biol 2011. 13 6 p. 652 9 . In particular cancer stem cells or cancer initiating cells have some pluripotent stem cell properties that contribute the heterogeneity of cancer cells. This feature may render cancer cells more resistant to conventional therapies such as chemotherapy or radiotherapy and then develop recurrence after treatment Clevers H. . Nat Med 2011. 17 3 p. 313 9 Beck B. and C. Blanpain . Nat Rev Cancer 2013. 13 10 p. 727 38 . LSD1 was reported to maintain an undifferentiated tumor initiating or cancer stem cell phenotype in a spectrum of cancers Zhang X. et al. 2 1 . Cell Rep 2013. 5 2 p. 445 57 Wang J. et al. 1 . Cancer Res 2011. 71 23 p. 7238 49 . Acute myeloid leukemias AMLs are an example of neoplastic cells that retain some of their less differentiated stem cell like phenotype or leukemia stem cell LSC potential. Analysis of AML cells including gene expression arrays and chromatin immunoprecipitation with next generation sequencing ChIP Seq revealed that LSD1 may regulate a subset of genes involved in multiple oncogenic programs to maintain LSC Harris W. J. et al. 1 9 . Cancer Cell 2012. 21 4 p. 473 87 Schenk T. et al. 1 1 . Nat Med 2012. 18 4 p. 605 11 . These findings suggest potential therapeutic benefit of LSD1 inhibitors targeting cancers having stem cell properties such as AMLs.

Overexpression of LSD1 is frequently observed in many types of cancers including bladder cancer NSCLC breast carcinomas ovary cancer glioma colorectal cancer sarcoma including chondrosarcoma Ewing s sarcoma osteosarcoma and rhabdomyosarcoma neuroblastoma prostate cancer esophageal squamous cell carcinoma and papillary thyroid carcinoma. Notably studies found over expression of LSD1 was significantly associated with clinically aggressive cancers for example recurrent prostate cancer NSCLC glioma breast colon cancer ovary cancer esophageal squamous cell carcinoma and neuroblastoma. In these studies either knockdown of LSD1 expression or treatment with small molecular inhibitors of LSD1 resulted in decreased cancer cell proliferation and or induction of apoptosis. See e.g. Hayami S. et al. 1 . Int J Cancer 2011. 128 3 p. 574 86 Lv T. et al. 1 . PLoS One 2012. 7 4 p. e35065 Serce N. et al. 1 1 . BMC Clin Pathol 2012. 12 p. 13 Lim S. et al. 1 1 . Carcinogenesis 2010. 31 3 p. 512 20 Konovalov S. and I. Garcia Bassets 1 1 1 . J Ovarian Res 2013. 6 1 p. 75 Sareddy G. R. et al. 1 . Oncotarget 2013. 4 1 p. 18 28 Ding J. et al. 1 . Br J Cancer 2013. 109 4 p. 994 1003 Bennani Baiti I. M. et al. 1 112110 . Hum Pathol 2012. 43 8 p. 1300 7 Schulte J. H. et al. 1 . Cancer Res 2009. 69 5 p. 2065 71 Crea F. et al. . Mol Cancer 2012. 11 p. 52 Suikki H. E. et al. . Prostate 2010. 70 8 p. 889 98 Yu Y. et al. 1 . Biochem Biophys Res Commun 2013. 437 2 p. 192 8 Kong L. et al. 2 1 . Rom J Morphol Embryol 2013. 54 3 p. 499 503.

Recently the induction of CD86 expression by inhibiting LSD1 activity was reported Lynch J. T. et al. 86 1. Anal Biochem 2013. 442 1 p. 104 6 . CD86 expression is a marker of maturation of dendritic cells DCs which are involved in antitumor immune response. Notably CD86 functions as a co stimulatory factor to activate T cell proliferation Greaves P. and J. G. Gribben 7 . Blood 2013. 121 5 p. 734 44 Chen L. and D. B. Flies . Nat Rev Immunol 2013. 13 4 p. 227 42 .

In addition to playing a role in cancer LSD1 activity has also been associated with viral pathogenesis. Particularly LSD1 activity appears to be linked with viral replications and expressions of viral genes. For example LSD1 functions as a co activator to induce gene expression from the viral immediate early genes of various type of herpes virus including herpes simplex virus HSV varicella zoster virus VZV and herpesvirus human cytomegalovirus Liang Y. et al. 2 . Sci Transl Med 2013. 5 167 p. 167ra5 Liang Y. et al. 1 . Nat Med 2009. 15 11 p. 1312 7 . In this setting a LSD1 inhibitor showed antiviral activity by blocking viral replication and altering virus associated gene expression.

Recent studies have also shown that the inhibition of LSD1 by either genetic depletion or pharmacological intervention increased fetal globin gene expression in erythroid cells Shi L. et al. 1 . Nat Med 2013. 19 3 p. 291 4 Xu J. et al. 11. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 2013. 110 16 p. 6518 23 . Inducing fetal globin gene would be potentially therapeutically beneficial for the disease of globinopathies including thalassemia and sickle cell disease where the production of normal globin a component of adult hemoglobin is impaired Sankaran V. G. and S. H. Orkin . Cold Spring Harb Perspect Med 2013. 3 1 p. a011643 Bauer D. E. S. C. Kamran and S. H. Orkin . Blood 2012. 120 15 p. 2945 53 . Moreover LSD1 inhibition may potentiate other clinically used therapies such as hydroxyurea or azacitidine. These agents may act at least in part by increasing globin gene expression through different mechanisms.

In summary LSD1 contributes to tumor development by altering epigenetic marks on histones and non histone proteins. Accumulating data have validated that either genetic depletion or pharmacological intervention of LSD1 normalizes altered gene expressions thereby inducing differentiation programs into mature cell types decreasing cell proliferation and promoting apoptosis in cancer cells. Therefore LSD1 inhibitors alone or in combination with established therapeutic drugs would be effective to treat the diseases associated with LSD1 activity.

The present invention is further directed to a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of Formula I and at least one pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

The present invention is further directed to a method of inhibiting LSD1 comprising contacting the LSD1 with a compound of Formula I.

The present invention is further directed to a method of treating an LSD1 mediated disease in a patient comprising administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I.

ring A is Caryl or 5 10 membered heteroaryl having carbon and 1 2 3 or 4 heteroatoms selected from N O and S 

ring B is 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl having carbon and 1 2 or 3 heteroatoms selected from N O and S 

ring C is 1 phenyl 2 monocyclic 5 6 membered heteroaryl having carbon and 1 2 3 or 4 heteroatoms selected from N O and S or 3 a fused bicyclic moiety having Formula A 

wherein said fused bicyclic moiety of Formula A is bonded to ring B via ring C1 and wherein Ring C substituents Rand Rare substituted on either or both of C1 and C2 

wherein ring C is substituted on any ring forming atom of ring B except the ring forming atom of ring B to which Ris bonded 

each Ris independently selected from halo Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl Chaloalkyl Caryl Ccycloalkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl Calkyl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Calkyl CN NO OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O OR NRC O NRR C NR R C NR NRR NRC NR NRR NRS O R NRS O R NRS O NRR S O R S O NRR S O R and S O NRR wherein said Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl Caryl Ccycloalkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl Calkyl and 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Calkyl are each optionally substituted with 1 2 3 or 4 substituents independently selected from halo Calkyl Chaloalkyl Ccyanoalkyl CN NO OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR C NR NRR NRC NR NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O OR NRC O NRR NRS O R NRS O R NRS O NRR S O R S O NRR S O R and S O NRR 

each Ris independently selected from halo Calkyl CN OR C O R C O NRR C O OR NRR S O R S O NRR S O R and S O NRR wherein said Calkyl is optionally substituted with 1 2 or 3 substituents independently selected from halo CN OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR C NR NRR NRC NR NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O OR NRC O NRR NRS O R NRS O R NRS O NRR S O R S O NRR S O R and S O NRR 

wherein each Ris substituted on any ring forming atom of ring B except the ring forming atom of ring B to which Ris bonded 

each Ris independently selected from halo Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl Chaloalkyl Caryl Ccycloalkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl Calkyl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Calkyl CN NO OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O OR NRC O NRR C NR R C NR NRR NRC NR NRR NRS O R NRS O R NRS O NRR S O R S O NRR S O R and S O NRR wherein said Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl Caryl Ccycloalkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl Calkyl and 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Calkyl are each optionally substituted with 1 2 3 or 4 substituents independently selected from halo Calkyl Chaloalkyl Ccyanoalkyl CN NO OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR C NR NRR NRC NR NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O OR NRC O NRR NRS O R NRS O R NRS O NRR S O R S O NRR S O R and S O NRR 

Ris halo Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl Chaloalkyl Caryl Ccycloalkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl Calkyl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Calkyl CN NO OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O OR NRC O NRR C NR R C NR NRR NRC NR NRR NRS O R NRS O R NRS O NRR S O R S O NRR S O R and S O NRR wherein said Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl Caryl Ccycloalkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl Calkyl and 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Calkyl are each optionally substituted with 1 2 3 or 4 substituents independently selected from halo Calkyl Chaloalkyl Ccyanoalkyl CN NO OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR C NR NRR NRC NR NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O OR NRC O NRR NRS O R NRS O R NRS O NRR S O R S O NRR S O R and S O NRR 

Ris H halo Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl Chaloalkyl Caryl Ccycloalkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl Calkyl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Calkyl CN NO OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O OR NRC O NRR C NR R C NR NRR NRC NR NRR NRS O R NRS O R NRS O NRR S O R S O NRR S O R and S O NRR wherein said Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl Caryl Ccycloalkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl Calkyl and 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Calkyl are each optionally substituted with 1 2 3 or 4 substituents independently selected from halo Calkyl Chaloalkyl Ccyanoalkyl CN NO OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR C NR NRR NRC NR NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O OR NRC O NRR NRS O R NRS O R NRS O NRR S O R S O NRR S O R and S O NRR 

each R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R and Ris independently selected from H Calkyl Chaloalkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl Caryl Ccycloalkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl Calkyl and 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Calkyl wherein said Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl Caryl Ccycloalkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl Calkyl and 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Calkyl is optionally substituted with 1 2 3 4 or 5 substituents independently selected from Calkyl Chaloalkyl Ccycanoalkyl halo CN OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O NRR NRC O OR C NR NRR NRC NR NRR S O R S O NRR S O R NRS O R NRS O NRR and S O NRR 

or any Rand Rtogether with the N atom to which they are attached form a 4 5 6 or 7 membered heterocycloalkyl group optionally substituted with 1 2 or 3 substituents independently selected from Calkyl Ccycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl 5 6 membered heteroaryl Chaloalkyl halo CN OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O NRR NRC O OR C NR NRR NRC NR NRR S O R S O NRR S O R NRS O R NRS O NRR and S O NRR wherein said Calkyl Ccycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl and 5 6 membered heteroaryl are optionally substituted by 1 2 or 3 substituents independently selected from halo Calkyl Chaloalkyl Ccyanoalkyl CN OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O NRR NRC O OR C NR NRR NRC NR NRR S O R S O NRR S O R NRS O R NRS O NRR and S O NRR 

or any Rand Rtogether with the N atom to which they are attached form a 4 5 6 or 7 membered heterocycloalkyl group optionally substituted with 1 2 or 3 substituents independently selected from Calkyl Ccycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl and 5 6 membered heteroaryl Chaloalkyl halo CN OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O NRR NRC O OR C NR NRR NRC NR NRR S O R S O NRR S O R NRS O R NRS O NRR and S O NRR wherein said Calkyl Ccycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl and 5 6 membered heteroaryl are optionally substituted by 1 2 or 3 substituents independently selected from halo Calkyl Chaloalkyl Ccyanoalkyl CN OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O NRR NRC O OR C NR NRR NRC NR NRR S O R S O NRR S O R NRS O R NRS O NRR and S O NRR 

or any Rand Rtogether with the N atom to which they are attached form a 4 5 6 or 7 membered heterocycloalkyl group optionally substituted with 1 2 or 3 substituents independently selected from Calkyl Ccycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl 5 6 membered heteroaryl Chaloalkyl halo CN OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O NRR NRC O OR C NR NRR NRC NR NRR S O R S O NRR S O R NRS O R NRS O NRR and S O NRR wherein said Calkyl Ccycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl and 5 6 membered heteroaryl are optionally substituted by 1 2 or 3 substituents independently selected from halo Calkyl Chaloalkyl Ccyanoalkyl CN OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O NRR NRC O OR C NR NRR NRC NR NRR S O R S O NRR S O R NRS O R NRS O NRR and S O NRR 

or any Rand Rtogether with the N atom to which they are attached form a 4 5 6 or 7 membered heterocycloalkyl group optionally substituted with 1 2 or 3 substituents independently selected from Calkyl Ccycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl 5 6 membered heteroaryl Chaloalkyl halo CN OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O NRR NRC O OR C NR NRR NRC NR NRR S O R S O NRR S O R NRS O R NRS O NRR and S O NRR wherein said Calkyl Ccycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl and 5 6 membered heteroaryl are optionally substituted by 1 2 or 3 substituents independently selected from halo Calkyl Chaloalkyl Ccyanoalkyl CN OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O NRR NRC O OR C NR NRR NRC NR NRR S O R S O NRR S O R NRS O R NRS O NRR and S O NRR 

each R R R Ris independently selected from H and Calkyl optionally substituted with 1 2 3 4 or 5 substituents independently selected from halo CN OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O NRR NRC O OR C NR NRR NRC NR NRR S O R S O NRR S O R NRS O R NRS O NRR and S O NRR 

each R R R and Ris independently selected from H Calkyl Chaloalkyl Calkenyl and Calkynyl wherein said Calkyl Calkenyl and Calkynyl is optionally substituted with 1 2 or 3 substituents independently selected from OH CN amino halo Calkyl Calkoxy Calkylthio Calkylamino di Calkyl amino Chaloalkyl and Chaloalkoxy and

In some embodiments ring B is monocyclic 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl having carbon and 1 2 or 3 heteroatoms selected from N O and S.

In some embodiments ring B is a 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl having carbon and 1 2 or 3 heteroatoms selected from N O and S wherein said ring B comprises at least one ring forming N atom.

In some embodiments ring B is a 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl having carbon and 1 2 or 3 heteroatoms selected from N O and S wherein said ring B comprises at least one ring forming N atom.

In some embodiments ring B is a 6 membered heterocycloalkyl ring having carbon and 1 or 2 heteroatoms selected from N O and S wherein said ring B comprises at least one ring forming N atom.

In some embodiments ring A is Caryl or 5 10 membered heteroaryl having carbon and 1 2 3 or 4 heteroatoms selected from N O and S.

In some embodiments ring B is 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl having carbon and 1 2 or 3 heteroatoms selected from N O and S.

In some embodiments ring C is 1 phenyl 2 monocyclic 5 6 membered heteroaryl having carbon and 1 2 3 or 4 heteroatoms selected from N O and S or 3 a fused bicyclic moiety having Formula A 

ring A is Caryl or 5 10 membered heteroaryl having carbon and 1 2 3 or 4 heteroatoms selected from N O and S 

ring C is 1 phenyl 2 monocyclic 5 6 membered heteroaryl having carbon and 1 2 3 or 4 heteroatoms selected from N O and S or 3 a fused bicyclic moiety having Formula A 

wherein said fused bicyclic moiety of Formula A is bonded to ring B via ring C1 and wherein Ring C substituents Rand Rare substituted on either or both of C1 and C2 

each Ris independently selected from halo Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl Chaloalkyl Caryl Ccycloalkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl Calkyl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Calkyl CN NO OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O OR NRC O NRR C NR R C NR NRR NRC NR NRR NRS O R NRS O R NRS O NRR S O R S O NRR S O R and S O NRR wherein said Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl Caryl Ccycloalkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl Calkyl and 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Calkyl are each optionally substituted with 1 2 3 or 4 substituents independently selected from halo Calkyl Chaloalkyl Ccyanoalkyl CN NO OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR C NR NRR NRC NR NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O OR NRC O NRR NRS O R NRS O R NRS O NRR S O R S O NRR S O R and S O NRR 

each Ris independently selected from halo Calkyl CN OR C O R C O NRR C O OR NRR S O R S O NRR S O R and S O NRR wherein said Calkyl is optionally substituted with 1 2 or 3 substituents independently selected from halo CN OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR C NR NRR NRC NR NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O OR NRC O NRR NRS O R NRS O R NRS O NRR S O R S O NRR S O R and S O NRR 

wherein each Ris substituted any ring forming carbon atom of the ring in Formula II containing X and Y except the ring forming carbon atom to which Ris bonded 

each Ris independently selected from halo Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl Chaloalkyl Caryl Ccycloalkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl Calkyl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Calkyl CN NO OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O OR NRC O NRR C NR R C NR NRR NRC NR NRR NRS O R NRS O R NRS O NRR S O R S O NRR S O R and S O NRR wherein said Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl Caryl Ccycloalkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl Calkyl and 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Calkyl are each optionally substituted with 1 2 3 or 4 substituents independently selected from halo Calkyl Chaloalkyl Ccyanoalkyl CN NO OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR C NR NRR NRC NR NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O OR NRC O NRR NRS O R NRS O R NRS O NRR S O R S O NRR S O R and S O NRR 

Ris Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl Chaloalkyl Caryl Ccycloalkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl Calkyl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Calkyl CN NO OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O OR NRC O NRR C NR R C NR NRR NRC NR NRR NRS O R NRS O R NRS O NRR S O R S O NRR S O R and S O NRR wherein said Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl Caryl Ccycloalkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl Calkyl and 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Calkyl are each optionally substituted with 1 2 3 or 4 substituents independently selected from halo Calkyl Chaloalkyl Ccyanoalkyl CN NO OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR C NR NRR NRC NR NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O OR NRC O NRR NRS O R NRS O R NRS O NRR S O R S O NRR S O R and S O NRR 

Ris H halo Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl Chaloalkyl Caryl Ccycloalkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl Calkyl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Calkyl CN NO OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O OR NRC O NRR C NR R C NR NRR NRC NR NRR NRS O R NRS O R NRS O NRR S O R S O NRR S O R and S O NRR wherein said Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl Caryl Ccycloalkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl Calkyl and 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Calkyl are each optionally substituted with 1 2 3 or 4 substituents independently selected from halo Calkyl Chaloalkyl Ccyanoalkyl CN NO OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR C NR NRR NRC NR NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O OR NRC O NRR NRS O R NRS O R NRS O NRR S O R S O NRR S O R and S O NRR 

each R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R and Ris independently selected from H Calkyl Chaloalkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl Caryl Ccycloalkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl Calkyl and 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Calkyl wherein said Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl Caryl Ccycloalkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl Calkyl and 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Calkyl is optionally substituted with 1 2 3 4 or 5 substituents independently selected from Calkyl Chaloalkyl Ccycanoalkyl halo CN OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O NRR NRC O OR C NR NRR NRC NR NRR S O R S O NRR S O R NRS O R NRS O NRR and S O NRR 

or any Rand Rtogether with the N atom to which they are attached form a 4 5 6 or 7 membered heterocycloalkyl group optionally substituted with 1 2 or 3 substituents independently selected from Calkyl Ccycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl 5 6 membered heteroaryl Chaloalkyl halo CN OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O NRR NRC O OR C NR NRR NRC NR NRR S O R S O NRR S O R NRS O R NRS O NRR and S O NRR wherein said Calkyl Ccycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl and 5 6 membered heteroaryl are optionally substituted by 1 2 or 3 substituents independently selected from halo Calkyl Chaloalkyl Ccyanoalkyl CN OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O NRR NRC O OR C NR NRR NRC NR NRR S O R S O NRR S O R NRS O R NRS O NRR and S O NRR 

or any Rand Rtogether with the N atom to which they are attached form a 4 5 6 or 7 membered heterocycloalkyl group optionally substituted with 1 2 or 3 substituents independently selected from Calkyl Ccycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl and 5 6 membered heteroaryl Chaloalkyl halo CN OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O NRR NRC O OR C NR NRR NRC NR NRR S O R S O NRR S O R NR O R NRS O NRR and S O NRR wherein said Calkyl Ccycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl and 5 6 membered heteroaryl are optionally substituted by 1 2 or 3 substituents independently selected from halo Calkyl Chaloalkyl Ccyanoalkyl CN OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O NRR NRC O OR C NR NRR NRC NR NRR S O R S O NRR S O R NRS O R NRS O NRR and S O NRR 

or any Rand Rtogether with the N atom to which they are attached form a 4 5 6 or 7 membered heterocycloalkyl group optionally substituted with 1 2 or 3 substituents independently selected from Calkyl Ccycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl 5 6 membered heteroaryl Chaloalkyl halo CN OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O NRR NRC O OR C NR NRR NRC NR NRR S O R S O NRR S O R NRS O R NRS O NRR and S O NRR wherein said Calkyl Ccycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl and 5 6 membered heteroaryl are optionally substituted by 1 2 or 3 substituents independently selected from halo Calkyl Chaloalkyl Ccyanoalkyl CN OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O NRR NRC O OR C NR NRR NRC NR NRR S O R S O NRR S O R NRS O R NRS O NRR and S O NRR 

or any Rand Rtogether with the N atom to which they are attached form a 4 5 6 or 7 membered heterocycloalkyl group optionally substituted with 1 2 or 3 substituents independently selected from Calkyl Ccycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl 5 6 membered heteroaryl Chaloalkyl halo CN OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O NRR NRC O OR C NR NRR NRC NR NRR S O R S O NRR S O R NRS O R NRS O NRR and S O NRR wherein said Calkyl Ccycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl and 5 6 membered heteroaryl are optionally substituted by 1 2 or 3 substituents independently selected from halo Calkyl Chaloalkyl Ccyanoalkyl CN OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O NRR NRC O OR C NR NRR NRC NR NRR S O R S O NRR S O R NRS O R NRS O NRR and S O NRR 

each R R R Ris independently selected from H and Calkyl optionally substituted with 1 2 3 4 or 5 substituents independently selected from halo CN OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O NRR NRC O OR C NR NRR NRC NR NRR S O R S O NRR S O R NRS O R NRS O NRR and S O NRR 

each R R R and Ris independently selected from H Calkyl Chaloalkyl Calkenyl and Calkynyl wherein said Calkyl Calkenyl and Calkynyl is optionally substituted with 1 2 or 3 substituents independently selected from OH CN amino halo Calkyl Calkoxy Calkylthio Calkylamino di Calkyl amino Chaloalkyl and Chaloalkoxy and

ring A is Caryl or 5 10 membered heteroaryl having carbon and 1 2 3 or 4 heteroatoms selected from N O and S 

ring C is 1 phenyl 2 monocyclic 5 6 membered heteroaryl having carbon and 1 2 3 or 4 heteroatoms selected from N O and S or 3 a fused bicyclic moiety having Formula A 

wherein said fused bicyclic moiety of Formula A is bonded to ring B via ring C1 and wherein Ring C substituents Rand Rare substituted on either or both of C1 and C2 

each Ris independently selected from halo Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl Chaloalkyl Caryl Ccycloalkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl Calkyl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Calkyl CN NO OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O OR NRC O NRR C NR R C NR NRR NRC NR NRR NRS O R NRS O R NRS O NRR S O R S O NRR S O R and S O NRR wherein said Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl Caryl Ccycloalkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl Calkyl and 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Calkyl are each optionally substituted with 1 2 3 or 4 substituents independently selected from halo Calkyl Chaloalkyl Ccyanoalkyl CN NO OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR C NR NRR NRC NR NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O OR NRC O NRR NRS O R NRS O R NRS O NRR S O R S O NRR S O R and S O NRR 

each Ris independently selected from halo Calkyl CN OR C O R C O NRR C O OR NRR S O R S O NRR S O R and S O NRR wherein said Calkyl is optionally substituted with 1 2 or 3 substituents independently selected from halo CN OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR C NR NRR NRC NR NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O OR NRC O NRR NRS O R NRS O R NRS O NRR S O R S O NRR S O R and S O NRR 

wherein each Ris substituted on any ring forming carbon atom of the azetidine ring depicted in Formula IIIa or the piperidine ring depicted in Formula IIIb except the ring forming carbon atom to which Ris bonded 

each Ris independently selected from halo Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl Chaloalkyl Caryl Ccycloalkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl Calkyl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Calkyl CN NO OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O OR NRC O NRR C NR R C NR NRR NRC NR NRR NRS O R NRS O R NRS O NRR S O R S O NRR S O R and S O NRR wherein said Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl Caryl Ccycloalkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl Calkyl and 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Calkyl are each optionally substituted with 1 2 3 or 4 substituents independently selected from halo Calkyl Chaloalkyl Ccyanoalkyl CN NO OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR C NR NRR NRC NR NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O OR NRC O NRR NRS O R NRS O R NRS O NRR S O R S O NRR S O R and S O NRR 

Ris Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl Chaloalkyl Caryl Ccycloalkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl Calkyl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Calkyl CN NO OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O OR NRC O NRR C NR R C NR NRR NRC NR NRR NRS O R NRS O R NRS O NRR S O R S O NRR S O R and S O NRR wherein said Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl Caryl Ccycloalkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl Calkyl and 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Calkyl are each optionally substituted with 1 2 3 or 4 substituents independently selected from halo Calkyl Chaloalkyl Ccyanoalkyl CN NO OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR C NR NRR NRC NR NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O OR NRC O NRR NRS O R NRS O R NRS O NRR S O R S O NRR S O R and S O NRR 

Ris H halo Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl Chaloalkyl Caryl Ccycloalkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl Calkyl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Calkyl CN NO OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O OR NRC O NRR C NR R C NR NRR NRC NR NRR NRS O R NRS O R NRS O NRR S O R S O NRR S O R and S O NRR wherein said Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl Caryl Ccycloalkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl Calkyl and 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Calkyl are each optionally substituted with 1 2 3 or 4 substituents independently selected from halo Calkyl Chaloalkyl Ccyanoalkyl CN NO OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR C NR NRR NRC NR NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O OR NRC O NRR NRS O R NRS O R NRS O NRR S O R S O NRR S O R and S O NRR 

each R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R and Ris independently selected from H Calkyl Chaloalkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl Caryl Ccycloalkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl Calkyl and 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Calkyl wherein said Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl Caryl Ccycloalkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl Calkyl and 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Calkyl is optionally substituted with 1 2 3 4 or 5 substituents independently selected from Calkyl Chaloalkyl Ccycanoalkyl halo CN OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O NRR NRC O OR C NR NRR NRC NR NRR S O R S O NRR S O R NRS O R NRS O NRR and S O NRR 

or any Rand Rtogether with the N atom to which they are attached form a 4 5 6 or 7 membered heterocycloalkyl group optionally substituted with 1 2 or 3 substituents independently selected from Calkyl Ccycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl 5 6 membered heteroaryl Chaloalkyl halo CN OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O NRR NRC O OR C NR NRR NRC NR NRR S O R S O NRR S O R NRS O R NRS O NRR and S O NRR wherein said Calkyl Ccycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl and 5 6 membered heteroaryl are optionally substituted by 1 2 or 3 substituents independently selected from halo Calkyl Chaloalkyl Ccyanoalkyl CN OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O NRR NRC O OR C NR NRR NRC NR NRR S O R S O NRR S O R NRS O R NRS O NRR and S O NRR 

or any Rand Rtogether with the N atom to which they are attached form a 4 5 6 or 7 membered heterocycloalkyl group optionally substituted with 1 2 or 3 substituents independently selected from Calkyl Ccycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl and 5 6 membered heteroaryl Chaloalkyl halo CN OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O NRR NRC O OR C NR NRR NRC NR NRR S O R S O NRR S O R NRS O R NRS O NRR and S O NRR wherein said Calkyl Ccycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl and 5 6 membered heteroaryl are optionally substituted by 1 2 or 3 substituents independently selected from halo Calkyl Chaloalkyl Ccyanoalkyl CN OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O NRR NRC O OR C NR NRR NRC NR NRR S O R S O NRR S O R NRS O R NRS O NRR and S O NRR 

or any Rand Rtogether with the N atom to which they are attached form a 4 5 6 or 7 membered heterocycloalkyl group optionally substituted with 1 2 or 3 substituents independently selected from Calkyl Ccycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl 5 6 membered heteroaryl Chaloalkyl halo CN OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O NRR NRC O OR C NR NRR NRC NR NRR S O R S O NRR S O R NRS O R NRS O NRR and S O NRR wherein said Calkyl Ccycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl and 5 6 membered heteroaryl are optionally substituted by 1 2 or 3 substituents independently selected from halo Calkyl Chaloalkyl Ccyanoalkyl CN OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O NRR NRC O OR C NR NRR NRC NR NRR S O R S O NRR S O R NRS O R NRS O NRR and S O NRR 

or any Rand Rtogether with the N atom to which they are attached form a 4 5 6 or 7 membered heterocycloalkyl group optionally substituted with 1 2 or 3 substituents independently selected from Calkyl Ccycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl 5 6 membered heteroaryl Chaloalkyl halo CN OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O NRR NRC O OR C NR NRR NRC NR NRR S O R S O NRR S O R NRS O R NRS O NRR and S O NRR wherein said Calkyl Ccycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl and 5 6 membered heteroaryl are optionally substituted by 1 2 or 3 substituents independently selected from halo Calkyl Chaloalkyl Ccyanoalkyl CN OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O NRR NRC O OR C NR NRR NRC NR NRR S O R S O NRR S O R NRS O R NRS O NRR and S O NRR 

each R R R Ris independently selected from H and Calkyl optionally substituted with 1 2 3 4 or 5 substituents independently selected from halo CN OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O NRR NRC O OR C NR NRR NRC NR NRR S O R S O NRR S O R NRS O R NRS O NRR and S O NRR 

each R R R and Ris independently selected from H Calkyl Chaloalkyl Calkenyl and Calkynyl wherein said Calkyl Calkenyl and Calkynyl is optionally substituted with 1 2 or 3 substituents independently selected from OH CN amino halo Calkyl Calkoxy Calkylthio Calkylamino di Calkyl amino Chaloalkyl and Chaloalkoxy and

ring A is Caryl or 5 10 membered heteroaryl having carbon and 1 2 3 or 4 heteroatoms selected from N O and S 

ring C is 1 phenyl 2 monocyclic 5 6 membered heteroaryl having carbon and 1 2 3 or 4 heteroatoms selected from N O and S or 3 a fused bicyclic moiety having Formula A 

each Ris independently selected from halo Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl Chaloalkyl Caryl Ccycloalkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl Calkyl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Calkyl CN NO OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O OR NRC O NRR C NR R C NR NRR NRC NR NRR NRS O R NRS O R NRS O NRR S O R S O NRR S O R and S O NRR wherein said Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl Caryl Ccycloalkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl Calkyl and 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Calkyl are each optionally substituted with 1 2 3 or 4 substituents independently selected from halo Calkyl Chaloalkyl Ccyanoalkyl CN NO OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR C NR NRR NRC NR NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O OR NRC O NRR NRS O R NRS O R NRS O NRR S O R S O NRR S O R and S O NRR 

each Ris independently selected from halo Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl Chaloalkyl Caryl Ccycloalkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl Calkyl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Calkyl CN NO OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O OR NRC O NRR C NR R C NR NRR NRC NR NRR NRS O R NRS O R NRS O NRR S O R S O NRR S O R and S O NRR wherein said Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl Caryl Ccycloalkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl Calkyl and 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Calkyl are each optionally substituted with 1 2 3 or 4 substituents independently selected from halo Calkyl Chaloalkyl Ccyanoalkyl CN NO OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR C NR NRR NRC NR NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O OR NRC O NRR NRS O R NRS O R NRS O NRR S O R S O NRR S O R and S O NRR 

Ris halo Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl Chaloalkyl Caryl Ccycloalkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl Calkyl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Calkyl CN NO OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O OR NRC O NRR C NR R C NR NRR NRC NR NRR NRS O R NRS O R NRS O NRR S O R S O NRR S O R and S O NRR wherein said Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl Caryl Ccycloalkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl Calkyl and 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Calkyl are each optionally substituted with 1 2 3 or 4 substituents independently selected from halo Calkyl Chaloalkyl Ccyanoalkyl CN NO OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR C NR NRR NRC NR NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O OR NRC O NRR NRS O R NRS O R NRS O NRR S O R S O NRR S O R and S O NRR 

each R R R R R R R R R R R and Ris independently selected from H Calkyl Chaloalkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl Caryl Ccycloalkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl Calkyl and 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Calkyl wherein said Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl Caryl Ccycloalkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl Calkyl and 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Calkyl is optionally substituted with 1 2 3 4 or 5 substituents independently selected from Calkyl Chaloalkyl Ccycanoalkyl halo CN OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O NRR NRC O OR C NR NRR NRC NR NRR S O R S O NRR S O R NRS O R NR O NRR and S O NRR 

or any Rand Rtogether with the N atom to which they are attached form a 4 5 6 or 7 membered heterocycloalkyl group optionally substituted with 1 2 or 3 substituents independently selected from Calkyl Ccycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl 5 6 membered heteroaryl Chaloalkyl halo CN OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O NRR NRC O OR C NR NRR NRC NR NRR S O R S O NRR S O R NRS O R NRS O NRR and S O NRR wherein said Calkyl Ccycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl and 5 6 membered heteroaryl are optionally substituted by 1 2 or 3 substituents independently selected from halo Calkyl Chaloalkyl Ccyanoalkyl CN OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O NRR NRC O OR C NR NRR NRC NR NRR S O R S O NRR S O R NRS O R NRS O NRR and S O NRR 

or any Rand Rtogether with the N atom to which they are attached form a 4 5 6 or 7 membered heterocycloalkyl group optionally substituted with 1 2 or 3 substituents independently selected from Calkyl Ccycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl and 5 6 membered heteroaryl Chaloalkyl halo CN OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O NRR NRC O OR C NR NRR NRC NR NRR S O R S O NRR S O R NRS O R NRS O NRR and S O NRR wherein said Calkyl Ccycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl and 5 6 membered heteroaryl are optionally substituted by 1 2 or 3 substituents independently selected from halo Calkyl Chaloalkyl Ccyanoalkyl CN OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O NRR NRC O OR C NR NRR NRC NR NRR S O R S O NRR S O R NRS O R NRS O NRR and S O NRR 

or any Rand Rtogether with the N atom to which they are attached form a 4 5 6 or 7 membered heterocycloalkyl group optionally substituted with 1 2 or 3 substituents independently selected from Calkyl Ccycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl 5 6 membered heteroaryl Chaloalkyl halo CN OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O NRR NRC O OR C NR NRR NRC NR NRR S O R S O NRR S O R NRS O R NRS O NRR and S O NRR wherein said Calkyl Ccycloalkyl 4 7 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl and 5 6 membered heteroaryl are optionally substituted by 1 2 or 3 substituents independently selected from halo Calkyl Chaloalkyl Ccyanoalkyl CN OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O NRR NRC O OR C NR NRR NRC NR NRR S O R S O NRR S O R NRS O R NRS O NRR and S O NRR 

each R R R and Ris independently selected from H Calkyl Chaloalkyl Calkenyl and Calkynyl wherein said Calkyl Calkenyl and Calkynyl is optionally substituted with 1 2 or 3 substituents independently selected from OH CN amino halo Calkyl Calkoxy Calkylthio Calkylamino di Calkyl amino Chaloalkyl and Chaloalkoxy and

In some embodiments ring C is monocyclic 5 6 membered heteroaryl having carbon and 1 2 3 or 4 heteroatoms selected from N O and S.

In some embodiments Ris Calkyl Chaloalkyl Ccycloalkyl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl CN NRR C O OR or C O NRR wherein said Calkyl Ccycloalkyl and 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl are each optionally substituted with 1 2 3 or 4 substituents independently selected from halo Calkyl Chaloalkyl Ccyanoalkyl CN NO OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR C NR NRR NRC NR NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O OR NRC O NRR NRS O R NRS O R NRS O NRR S O R S O NRR S O R and S O NRR.

In some embodiments Ris Calkyl Chaloalkyl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl CN or C O NRR wherein said Calkyl and 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl are each optionally substituted with 1 2 3 or 4 substituents independently selected from halo Calkyl Chaloalkyl Ccyanoalkyl CN NO OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR C NR NRR NRC NR NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O OR NRC O NRR NRS O R NRS O R NRS O NRR S O R S O NRR S O R and S O NRR.

In some embodiments Ris methyl F Cl CN C O OH C O NH C O NH methyl C O N CH C O NH 2 propyl C O NH ethyl methoxy 4 methylpiperazinyl CH CN CF or a moiety of formula 

In some embodiments Ris methyl F Cl CN C O NH 2 propyl C O NH ethyl methoxy 4 methylpiperazinyl CH CN CF or a moiety of formula 

In some embodiments each Ris independently selected from halo Calkyl Chaloalkyl CN OR and C O NRR wherein said Calkyl is optionally substituted with 1 2 3 or 4 substituents independently selected from halo Calkyl Chaloalkyl Ccyanoalkyl CN NO OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR C NR NRR NRC NR NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O OR NRC O NRR NRS O R NRS O R NRS O NRR S O R S O NRR S O R and S O NRR.

In some embodiments Ris Calkyl or Caryl Calkyl wherein said Calkyl and Caryl Calkyl are each optionally substituted by halo CN or OR.

In some embodiments each R R R and Ris independently selected from H Calkyl Chaloalkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl Caryl Ccycloalkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl Calkyl and 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Calkyl wherein said Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl Caryl Ccycloalkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl Calkyl and 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Calkyl is optionally substituted with 1 2 3 4 or 5 substituents independently selected from Calkyl Chaloalkyl Ccycanoalkyl halo CN OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O NRR NRC O OR C NR NRR NRC NR NRR S O R S O NRR S O R NRS O R NRS O NRR and S O NRR.

In some embodiments each R R R and Ris independently selected from H Calkyl Chaloalkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl Caryl Ccycloalkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl Calkyl and 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Calkyl wherein said Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl Caryl Ccycloalkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl Calkyl and 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Calkyl is optionally substituted with 1 2 3 4 or 5 substituents independently selected from Calkyl Chaloalkyl Ccycanoalkyl halo CN OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O NRR NRC O OR C NR NRR NRC NR NRR S O R S O NRR S O R NRS O R NRS O NRR and S O NRR.

In some embodiments each R R R and Ris independently selected from H Calkyl Chaloalkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl Caryl Ccycloalkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl Calkyl and 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Calkyl wherein said Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl Caryl Ccycloalkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl Calkyl and 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Calkyl is optionally substituted with 1 2 3 4 or 5 substituents independently selected from Calkyl Chaloalkyl Ccycanoalkyl halo CN OR SR C O R C O NRR C O OR OC O R OC O NRR NRR NRC O R NRC O NRR NRC O OR C NR NRR NRC NR NRR S O R S O NRR S O R NRS O R NRS O NRR and S O NRR.

In some embodiments each R R R and Ris independently selected from H Calkyl Chaloalkyl Caryl Ccycloalkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl Calkyl and 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Calkyl wherein said Calkyl Caryl Ccycloalkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl Calkyl and 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Calkyl is optionally substituted with 1 2 or 3 substituents independently selected from OH CN amino halo Calkyl Calkoxy Calkylthio Calkylamino di Calkyl amino Chaloalkyl and Chaloalkoxy.

In some embodiments each R R R and Ris independently selected from H Calkyl Chaloalkyl Caryl Ccycloalkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl Calkyl and 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Calkyl wherein said Calkyl Caryl Ccycloalkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl Calkyl and 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Calkyl is optionally substituted with 1 2 or 3 substituents independently selected from OH CN amino halo Calkyl Calkoxy Calkylthio Calkylamino di Calkyl amino Chaloalkyl and Chaloalkoxy.

In some embodiments each R R R and Ris independently selected from H Calkyl Chaloalkyl Caryl Ccycloalkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl Calkyl and 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Calkyl wherein said Calkyl Caryl Ccycloalkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Caryl Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl 5 10 membered heteroaryl Calkyl and 4 10 membered heterocycloalkyl Calkyl is optionally substituted with 1 2 or 3 substituents independently selected from OH CN amino halo Calkyl Calkoxy Calkylthio Calkylamino di Calkyl amino Chaloalkyl and Chaloalkoxy.

In some embodiments the compound has a trans configuration with respect to the di substituted cyclopropyl group depicted in Formula I or any of Formulas II IIIa IIIb IVa IVb Va and Vb .

It is appreciated that certain features of the invention which are for clarity described in the context of separate embodiments can also be provided in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely various features of the invention which are for brevity described in the context of a single embodiment can also be provided separately or in any suitable subcombination.

A floating bond crossing a ring moiety in any structure or formula depicted herein is intended to show unless otherwise indicated that the bond can connect to any ring forming atom of the ring moiety. For example where ring A in Formula I is a naphthyl group an Rsubstituent if present can be substituted on either of the two rings forming the naphthyl group.

In embodiments when ring C is a fused bicyclic moiety of Formula A the phrase wherein said fused bicyclic moiety of Formula A is bonded to ring B via ring C1 and wherein Ring C substituents Rand Rare substituted on either or both of C1 and C2 is intended to denote that 1 ring B of Formula I is connected to ring C1 and not to ring C2 2 Ris substituted on either ring C1 or ring C2 and 3 any Rthat is present is substituted on either ring C1 or ring C2. The floating bond over ring C1 in Formula A is intended to show that ring C1 not ring C2 connects to ring B.

As used herein the phrase optionally substituted means unsubstituted or substituted. As used herein the term substituted means that a hydrogen atom is removed and replaced by a substituent. It is to be understood that substitution at a given atom is limited by valency. Throughout the definitions the term C indicates a range which includes the endpoints wherein i and j are integers and indicate the number of carbons. Examples include C C and the like.

The term z membered where z is an integer typically describes the number of ring forming atoms in a moiety where the number of ring forming atoms is z. For example piperidinyl is an example of a 6 membered heterocycloalkyl ring pyrazolyl is an example of a 5 membered heteroaryl ring pyridyl is an example of a 6 membered heteroaryl ring and 1 2 3 4 tetrahydro naphthalene is an example of a 10 membered cycloalkyl group.

As used herein the term Calkyl employed alone or in combination with other terms refers to a saturated hydrocarbon group that may be straight chain or branched having i to j carbons. In some embodiments the alkyl group contains from 1 to 6 carbon atoms or from 1 to 4 carbon atoms or from 1 to 3 carbon atoms. Examples of alkyl moieties include but are not limited to chemical groups such as methyl ethyl n propyl isopropyl n butyl s butyl and t butyl.

As used herein the term Calkoxy employed alone or in combination with other terms refers to a group of formula O alkyl wherein the alkyl group has i to j carbons. Example alkoxy groups include methoxy ethoxy and propoxy e.g. n propoxy and isopropoxy . In some embodiments the alkyl group has 1 to 3 carbon atoms.

As used herein Calkenyl employed alone or in combination with other terms refers to an unsaturated hydrocarbon group having one or more double carbon carbon bonds and having i to j carbons. In some embodiments the alkenyl moiety contains 2 to 6 or 2 to 4 carbon atoms. Example alkenyl groups include but are not limited to ethenyl n propenyl isopropenyl n butenyl sec butenyl and the like.

As used herein Calkynyl employed alone or in combination with other terms refers to an unsaturated hydrocarbon group having one or more triple carbon carbon bonds and having i to j carbons. Example alkynyl groups include but are not limited to ethynyl propyn 1 yl propyn 2 yl and the like. In some embodiments the alkynyl moiety contains 2 to 6 or 2 to 4 carbon atoms.

As used herein the term Calkylamino employed alone or in combination with other terms refers to a group of formula NH alkyl wherein the alkyl group has i to j carbon atoms. In some embodiments the alkyl group has 1 to 6 or 1 to 4 carbon atoms. Exemplary alkylamino groups include methylamino ethylamino and the like.

As used herein the term di C alkylamino employed alone or in combination with other terms refers to a group of formula N alkyl wherein each of the two alkyl groups has independently i to j carbon atoms. In some embodiments each alkyl group independently has 1 to 6 or 1 to 4 carbon atoms. In some embodiments the dialkylamino group is N Calkyl such as for example dimethylamino or diethylamino.

As used herein the term Calkylthio employed alone or in combination with other terms refers to a group of formula S alkyl wherein the alkyl group has i to j carbon atoms. In some embodiments the alkyl group has 1 to 6 or 1 to 4 carbon atoms. In some embodiments the alkylthio group is Calkylthio such as for example methylthio or ethylthio.

As used herein the term amino employed alone or in combination with other terms refers to a group of formula NH.

As used herein the term aryl employed alone or in combination with other terms refers to a monocyclic or polycyclic e.g. having 2 3 or 4 fused rings aromatic hydrocarbon such as but not limited to phenyl 1 naphthyl 2 naphthyl anthracenyl phenanthrenyl and the like. In some embodiments aryl is Caryl. In some embodiments the aryl group is a naphthalene ring or phenyl ring. In some embodiments the aryl group is phenyl.

As used herein the term carbonyl employed alone or in combination with other terms refers to a C O group.

As used herein the term Ccyanoalkyl employed alone or in combination with other terms refers to an alkyl group substituted by a CN group.

As used herein the term Ccycloalkyl employed alone or in combination with other terms refers to a non aromatic cyclic hydrocarbon moiety having i to j ring forming carbon atoms which may optionally contain one or more alkenylene groups as part of the ring structure. Cycloalkyl groups can include mono or polycyclic e.g. having 2 3 or 4 fused rings ring systems. Also included in the definition of cycloalkyl are moieties that have one or more aromatic rings fused i.e. having a bond in common with to the cycloalkyl ring for example benzo derivatives of cyclopentane cyclopentene cyclohexane and the like. One or more ring forming carbon atoms of a cycloalkyl group can be oxidized to form carbonyl linkages. In some embodiments cycloalkyl is Ccycloalkyl Ccycloalkyl or Ccycloalkyl. Exemplary cycloalkyl groups include cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl cycloheptyl cyclopentenyl cyclohexenyl cyclohexadienyl cycloheptatrienyl norbornyl norpinyl norcarnyl and the like. Further exemplary cycloalkyl groups include cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl and cyclohexyl.

As used herein Chaloalkoxy employed alone or in combination with other terms refers to a group of formula O haloalkyl having i to j carbon atoms. An example haloalkoxy group is OCF. An additional example haloalkoxy group is OCHF. In some embodiments the haloalkoxy group is fluorinated only. In some embodiments the alkyl group has 1 to 6 or 1 to 4 carbon atoms. In some embodiments the haloalkoxy group is Chaloalkoxy.

As used herein the term halo employed alone or in combination with other terms refers to a halogen atom selected from F Cl I or Br. In some embodiments halo refers to a halogen atom selected from F Cl or Br. In some embodiments the halo substituent is F.

As used herein the term Chaloalkyl employed alone or in combination with other terms refers to an alkyl group having from one halogen atom to 2s 1 halogen atoms which may be the same or different where s is the number of carbon atoms in the alkyl group wherein the alkyl group has i to j carbon atoms. In some embodiments the haloalkyl group is fluorinated only. In some embodiments the haloalkyl group is fluoromethyl difluoromethyl or trifluoromethyl. In some embodiments the haloalkyl group is trifluoromethyl. In some embodiments the alkyl group has 1 to 6 or 1 to 4 carbon atoms.

As used herein the term heteroaryl employed alone or in combination with other terms refers to a monocyclic or polycyclic e.g. having 2 3 or 4 fused rings aromatic heterocylic moiety having one or more heteroatom ring members selected from nitrogen sulfur and oxygen. In some embodiments the heteroaryl group has 1 2 3 or 4 heteroatom ring members. In some embodiments the heteroaryl group has 1 2 or 3 heteroatom ring members. In some embodiments the heteroaryl group has 1 or 2 heteroatom ring members. In some embodiments the heteroaryl group has 1 heteroatom ring member. In some embodiments the heteroaryl group is 5 to 10 membered or 5 to 6 membered. In some embodiments the heteroaryl group is 5 membered. In some embodiments the heteroaryl group is 6 membered. In some embodiments the heteroaryl ring has or comprises carbon and 1 2 3 or 4 heteroatoms selected from N O and S. When the heteroaryl group contains more than one heteroatom ring member the heteroatoms may be the same or different. The nitrogen atoms in the ring s of the heteroaryl group can be oxidized to form N oxides. Example heteroaryl groups include but are not limited to pyridinyl pyrimidinyl pyrazinyl pyridazinyl pyrrolyl pyrazolyl azolyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl isothiazolyl imidazolyl furanyl thiophenyl triazolyl tetrazolyl thiadiazolyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl indolyl benzothiophenyl benzofuranyl benzisoxazolyl imidazo 1 2 b thiazolyl purinyl triazinyl and the like.

A 5 membered heteroaryl is a heteroaryl group having five ring forming atoms wherein one or more of the ring forming atoms are independently selected from N O and S. In some embodiments the 5 membered heteroaryl group has 1 2 or 3 heteroatom ring members. In some embodiments the 5 membered heteroaryl group has 1 or 2 heteroatom ring members. In some embodiments the 5 membered heteroaryl group has 1 heteroatom ring member. Example ring forming members include CH N NH O and S. Example five membered ring heteroaryls are thienyl furyl pyrrolyl imidazolyl thiazolyl oxazolyl pyrazolyl isothiazolyl isoxazolyl 1 2 3 triazolyl tetrazolyl 1 2 3 thiadiazolyl 1 2 3 oxadiazolyl 1 2 4 triazolyl 1 2 4 thiadiazolyl 1 2 4 oxadiazolyl 1 3 4 triazolyl 1 3 4 thiadiazolyl and 1 3 4 oxadiazolyl.

A 6 membered heteroaryl is a heteroaryl group having six ring forming atoms wherein one or more of the ring forming atoms is N. In some embodiments the 6 membered heteroaryl group has 1 2 or 3 heteroatom ring members. In some embodiments the 6 membered heteroaryl group has 1 or 2 heteroatom ring members. In some embodiments the 6 membered heteroaryl group has 1 heteroatom ring member. Example ring forming members include CH and N. Example six membered ring heteroaryls are pyridyl pyrazinyl pyrimidinyl triazinyl and pyridazinyl.

As used herein the term heterocycloalkyl employed alone or in combination with other terms refers to non aromatic heterocyclic ring system which may optionally contain one or more unsaturations as part of the ring structure and which has at least one heteroatom ring member independently selected from nitrogen sulfur and oxygen. In some embodiments the heterocycloalkyl group has 1 2 3 or 4 heteroatom ring members. In some embodiments the heterocycloalkyl group has 1 2 or 3 heteroatom ring members. In some embodiments the heterocycloalkyl group has 1 or 2 heteroatom ring members. In some embodiments the heterocycloalkyl group has 1 heteroatom ring member. In some embodiments the heterocycloalkyl group has or comprises carbon and 1 2 or 3 heteroatoms selected from N O and S. When the heterocycloalkyl group contains more than one heteroatom in the ring the heteroatoms may be the same or different. Example ring forming members include CH CH C O N NH O S S O and S O . Heterocycloalkyl groups can include mono or polycyclic e.g. having 2 3 or 4 fused rings ring systems including spiro systems. Also included in the definition of heterocycloalkyl are moieties that have one or more aromatic rings fused i.e. having a bond in common with to the non aromatic ring for example 1 2 3 4 tetrahydro quinoline dihydrobenzofuran and the like. The carbon atoms or heteroatoms in the ring s of the heterocycloalkyl group can be oxidized to form a carbonyl sulfinyl or sulfonyl group or other oxidized linkage or a nitrogen atom can be quaternized. In some embodiments the heterocycloalkyl is 5 to 10 membered 4 to 10 membered or 4 to 7 membered. Examples of heterocycloalkyl groups include 1 2 3 4 tetrahydro quinolinyl dihydrobenzofuranyl azetidinyl azepanyl pyrrolidinyl piperidinyl piperazinyl morpholinyl thiomorpholinyl and pyranyl.

The compounds described herein can be asymmetric e.g. having one or more stereocenters . All stereoisomers such as enantiomers and diastereoisomers are intended unless otherwise indicated. Compounds of the present invention that contain asymmetrically substituted carbon atoms can be isolated in optically active or racemic forms. Methods on how to prepare optically active forms from optically inactive starting materials are known in the art such as by resolution of racemic mixtures or by stereoselective synthesis. Many geometric isomers of olefins C N double bonds and the like can also be present in the compounds described herein and all such stable isomers are contemplated in the present invention. Cis and trans geometric isomers of the compounds of the present invention are described and may be isolated as a mixture of isomers or as separated isomeric forms.

When the compounds of the invention contain a chiral center the compounds can be any of the possible stereoisomers. In compounds with a single chiral center the stereochemistry of the chiral center can be R or S . In compounds with two chiral centers the stereochemistry of the chiral centers can each be independently R or S so the configuration of the chiral centers can be R and R R and S S and R or S and S . In compounds with three chiral centers the stereochemistry each of the three chiral centers can each be independently R or S so the configuration of the chiral centers can be R R and R R R and S R S and R R S and S S R and R S R and S S S and R or S S and S .

Resolution of racemic mixtures of compounds can be carried out by any of numerous methods known in the art. An example method includes fractional recrystallization using a chiral resolving acid which is an optically active salt forming organic acid. Suitable resolving agents for fractional recrystallization methods are for example optically active acids such as the D and L forms of tartaric acid diacetyltartaric acid dibenzoyltartaric acid mandelic acid malic acid lactic acid or the various optically active camphorsulfonic acids such as camphorsulfonic acid. Other resolving agents suitable for fractional crystallization methods include stereoisomerically pure forms of methylbenzylamine e.g. S and R forms or diastereoisomerically pure forms 2 phenylglycinol norephedrine ephedrine N methylephedrine cyclohexylethylamine 1 2 diaminocyclohexane and the like.

Resolution of racemic mixtures can also be carried out by elution on a column packed with an optically active resolving agent e.g. dinitrobenzoylphenylglycine . Suitable elution solvent composition can be determined by one skilled in the art.

Compounds of the invention also include tautomeric forms. Tautomeric forms result from the swapping of a single bond with an adjacent double bond together with the concomitant migration of a proton. Tautomeric forms include prototropic tautomers which are isomeric protonation states having the same empirical formula and total charge. Example prototropic tautomers include ketone enol pairs amide imidic acid pairs lactam lactim pairs amide imidic acid pairs enamine imine pairs and annular forms where a proton can occupy two or more positions of a heterocyclic system for example 1H and 3H imidazole 1H 2H and 4H 1 2 4 triazole 1H and 2H isoindole and 1H and 2H pyrazole. Tautomeric forms can be in equilibrium or sterically locked into one form by appropriate substitution.

Compounds of the invention can also include all isotopes of atoms occurring in the intermediates or final compounds. Isotopes include those atoms having the same atomic number but different mass numbers.

The term compound as used herein is meant to include all stereoisomers geometric isomers tautomers and isotopes of the structures depicted. Compounds herein identified by name or structure as one particular tautomeric form are intended to include other tautomeric forms unless otherwise specified e.g. in the case of purine rings unless otherwise indicated when the compound name or structure has the 9H tautomer it is understood that the 7H tautomer is also encompassed .

All compounds and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof can be found together with other substances such as water and solvents e.g. hydrates and solvates or can be isolated.

In some embodiments the compounds of the invention or salts thereof are substantially isolated. By substantially isolated is meant that the compound is at least partially or substantially separated from the environment in which it was formed or detected. Partial separation can include for example a composition enriched in a compound of the invention. Substantial separation can include compositions containing at least about 50 at least about 60 at least about 70 at least about 80 at least about 90 at least about 95 at least about 97 or at least about 99 by weight of the compounds of the invention or salt thereof. Methods for isolating compounds and their salts are routine in the art.

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable is employed herein to refer to those compounds materials compositions and or dosage forms which are within the scope of sound medical judgment suitable for use in contact with the tissues of human beings and animals without excessive toxicity irritation allergic response or other problem or complication commensurate with a reasonable benefit risk ratio.

The expressions ambient temperature and room temperature as used herein are understood in the art and refer generally to a temperature e.g. a reaction temperature that is about the temperature of the room in which the reaction is carried out for example a temperature from about 20 C. to about 30 C.

The present invention also includes pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the compounds described herein. As used herein pharmaceutically acceptable salts refers to derivatives of the disclosed compounds wherein the parent compound is modified by converting an existing acid or base moiety to its salt form. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable salts include but are not limited to mineral or organic acid salts of basic residues such as amines alkali or organic salts of acidic residues such as carboxylic acids and the like. The pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the present invention include the conventional non toxic salts of the parent compound formed for example from non toxic inorganic or organic acids. The pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the present invention can be synthesized from the parent compound which contains a basic or acidic moiety by conventional chemical methods. Generally such salts can be prepared by reacting the free acid or base forms of these compounds with a stoichiometric amount of the appropriate base or acid in water or in an organic solvent or in a mixture of the two generally non aqueous media like ether ethyl acetate alcohols e.g. methanol ethanol iso propanol or butanol or acetonitrile MeCN are preferred. Lists of suitable salts are found in 17Ed. Mack Publishing Company Easton 1985 p. 1418 Berge et al. 1977 66 1 1 19 and in Stahl et al. Wiley 2002 .

The following abbreviations may be used herein AcOH acetic acid AcO acetic anhydride aq. aqueous atm. atmosphere s Boc t butoxycarbonyl BOP benzotriazol 1 yloxy tris dimethylamino phosphonium hexafluorophosphate br broad Cbz carboxybenzyl calc. calculated d doublet dd doublet of doublets DBU 1 8 diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undec 7 ene DCM dichloromethane DIAD N N diisopropyl azidodicarboxylate DIEA N N diisopropylethylamine DIPEA N N diisopropylethylamine DMF N N dimethylformamide Et ethyl EtOAc ethyl acetate g gram s h hour s HATU N N N N tetramethyl O 7 azabenzotriazol 1 yl uronium hexafluorophosphate HCl hydrochloric acid HPLC high performance liquid chromatography Hz hertz J coupling constant LCMS liquid chromatography mass spectrometry m multiplet M molar mCPBA 3 chloroperoxybenzoic acid MS Mass spectrometry Me methyl MeCN acetonitrile MeOH methanol mg milligram s min. minutes s mL milliliter s mmol millimole s N normal nM nanomolar NMP N methylpyrrolidinone NMR nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy OTf trifluoromethanesulfonate Ph phenyl pM picomolar RP HPLC reverse phase high performance liquid chromatography s singlet t triplet or tertiary TBS tert butyldimethylsilyl tert tertiary tt triplet of triplets TFA trifluoroacetic acid THF tetrahydrofuran g microgram s L microliter s M micromolar wt weight percent .

Compounds of the invention including salts thereof can be prepared using known organic synthesis techniques and can be synthesized according to any of numerous possible synthetic routes.

The reactions for preparing compounds of the invention can be carried out in suitable solvents which can be readily selected by one of skill in the art of organic synthesis. Suitable solvents can be substantially non reactive with the starting materials reactants the intermediates or products at the temperatures at which the reactions are carried out e.g. temperatures which can range from the solvent s freezing temperature to the solvent s boiling temperature. A given reaction can be carried out in one solvent or a mixture of more than one solvent. Depending on the particular reaction step suitable solvents for a particular reaction step can be selected by the skilled artisan.

Preparation of compounds of the invention can involve the protection and deprotection of various chemical groups. The need for protection and deprotection and the selection of appropriate protecting groups can be readily determined by one skilled in the art. The chemistry of protecting groups can be found for example in P. G. M. Wuts and T. W. Greene 4Ed. Wiley Sons Inc. New York 2006 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Protecting groups in the synthetic schemes are typically represented by PG. 

Reactions can be monitored according to any suitable method known in the art. For example product formation can be monitored by spectroscopic means such as nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy e.g. H or C infrared spectroscopy spectrophotometry e.g. UV visible mass spectrometry or by chromatographic methods such as high performance liquid chromatography HPLC liquid chromatography mass spectroscopy LCMS or thin layer chromatography TLC . Compounds can be purified by those skilled in the art by a variety of methods including high performance liquid chromatography HPLC Karl F. Blom Brian Glass Richard Sparks Andrew P. Combs 2004 6 6 874 883 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety and normal phase silica chromatography.

Compounds of formula 3 can be prepared following the synthetic route as outlined in Scheme 1. The union of cyclopropylamine derivatives of formula 1 with aldehydes of formula 2 can be accomplished through reductive amination under standard conditions employing borohydride reducing reagents such as but not limited to sodium triacetoxyborohydride. If any functional groups in compound 1 or 2 are protected to avoid any side reactions a subsequent deprotection step can be performed to obtain the final product of formula 3. The deprotection conditions can be found in the literature or detailed in the specific examples described below. The starting materials of formula 1 or 2 are either commercially available or can be prepared as described herein or prepared following methods disclosed in the literature.

Compounds of formula 3a can be alternatively synthesized by the methods outlined in Scheme 2. Reductive amination of cyclopropylamine derivatives of formula 1 with aldehydes of formula 4 using similar conditions as described in Scheme 1 can give compounds of formula 5. The free amine group in compound 5 can then be protected with a suitable protecting group PG such as but not limited to CFCO and Cbz followed by selective removal of the Boc protecting group by acid to give compound 6. Coupling of compound 6 with a hetero aryl halide 7 can be achieved via direct displacement of the halide such as fluoride in compound 7 by the piperidine in compound 6 in the presence of a suitable base such as KCOor NaH etc in a polar solvent such as DMF. The union of piperidine derivatives of formula 6 with hetero aryl halide 7 can also be achieved via palladium catalyzed amination reactions to give compounds of formula 8 which can be deprotected to give compounds of formula 3a.

Compounds of formula 3b can be prepared by the methods outlined in Scheme 3 starting from compounds of formula 1 and ketones of formula 9 by reductive amination in a suitable solvent such as DCM or THF using a reducing agent such as but not limited to sodium triacetoxyborohydride optionally in the presence of an acid such as acetic acid. If any functional groups in compound 1 or 9 are protected to avoid any side reactions a subsequent deprotection step can be performed to obtain the final product of formula 3b.

To synthesize cyclopropylamine derivatives of formula 1 cyclopropanation reactions can be initially carried out on unsaturated esters of formula 10 R is e.g. alkyl such as ethyl under commonly applied conditions e.g. Corey Chaykovsky Cyclopropanation or Pd OAc and diazomethane . The ester functional group can then be converted to a primary amine via a three step sequence namely saponification e.g. LiOH in HO EtOH to elaborate carboxylic acid 11 followed by Curtius rearrangement e.g. PhO P O N EtN t BuOH and deprotection of the amine moiety e.g. HCl in HO 1 4 dioxane to give the desired cyclopropylamine derivatives of formula 1 See Scheme 4 .

Compounds of the invention are LSD1 inhibitors and thus are useful in treating diseases and disorders associated with activity of LSD1. For the uses described herein any of the compounds of the invention including any of the embodiments thereof may be used.

In some embodiments the compounds of the invention are selective for LSD1 over LSD2 meaning that the compounds bind to or inhibit LSD1 with greater affinity or potency compared to LSD2. In general selectivity can be at least about 5 fold at least about 10 fold at least about 20 fold at least about 50 fold at least about 100 fold at least about 200 fold at least about 500 fold or at least about 1000 fold.

As inhibitors of LSD1 the compounds of the invention are useful in treating LSD1 mediated diseases and disorders. The term LSD1 mediated disease or LSD1 mediated disorder refers to any disease or condition in which LSD1 plays a role or where the disease or condition is associated with expression or activity of LSD1. The compounds of the invention can therefore be used to treat or lessen the severity of diseases and conditions where LSD1 is known to play a role.

Diseases and conditions treatable using the compounds of the invention include generally cancers inflammation autoimmune diseases viral induced pathogenesis beta globinopathies and other diseases linked to LSD1 activity.

Cancers treatable using compounds according to the present invention include for example hematological cancers sarcomas lung cancers gastrointestinal cancers genitourinary tract cancers liver cancers bone cancers nervous system cancers gynecological cancers and skin cancers.

Example hematological cancers include for example lymphomas and leukemias such as acute lymphoblastic leukemia ALL acute myelogenous leukemia AML acute promyelocytic leukemia APL chronic lymphocytic leukemia CLL chronic myelogenous leukemia CML diffuse large B cell lymphoma DLBCL mantle cell lymphoma Non Hodgkin lymphoma including relapsed or refractory NHL and recurrent follicular Hodgkin lymphoma myeloproliferative diseases e.g. primary myelofibrosis PMF polycythemia vera PV essential thrombocytosis ET myelodysplasia syndrome MDS and multiple myeloma.

Example sarcomas include for example chondrosarcoma Ewing s sarcoma osteosarcoma rhabdomyosarcoma angiosarcoma fibrosarcoma liposarcoma myxoma rhabdomyoma fibroma lipoma harmatoma and teratoma.

Example lung cancers include for example non small cell lung cancer NSCLC bronchogenic carcinoma squamous cell undifferentiated small cell undifferentiated large cell adenocarcinoma alveolar bronchiolar carcinoma bronchial adenoma chondromatous hamartoma and mesothelioma.

Example gastrointestinal cancers include for example cancers of the esophagus squamous cell carcinoma adenocarcinoma leiomyosarcoma lymphoma stomach carcinoma lymphoma leiomyosarcoma pancreas ductal adenocarcinoma insulinoma glucagonoma gastrinoma carcinoid tumors vipoma small bowel adenocarcinoma lymphoma carcinoid tumors Kaposi s sarcoma leiomyoma hemangioma lipoma neurofibroma fibroma large bowel adenocarcinoma tubular adenoma villous adenoma hamartoma leiomyoma and colorectal cancer.

Example genitourinary tract cancers include for example cancers of the kidney adenocarcinoma Wilm s tumor nephroblastoma bladder and urethra squamous cell carcinoma transitional cell carcinoma adenocarcinoma prostate adenocarcinoma sarcoma and testis seminoma teratoma embryonal carcinoma teratocarcinoma choriocarcinoma sarcoma interstitial cell carcinoma fibroma fibroadenoma adenomatoid tumors lipoma .

Example liver cancers include for example hepatoma hepatocellular carcinoma cholangiocarcinoma hepatoblastoma angiosarcoma hepatocellular adenoma and hemangioma.

Example bone cancers include for example osteogenic sarcoma osteosarcoma fibrosarcoma malignant fibrous histiocytoma chondrosarcoma Ewing s sarcoma malignant lymphoma reticulum cell sarcoma multiple myeloma malignant giant cell tumor chordoma osteochronfroma osteocartilaginous exostoses benign chondroma chondroblastoma chondromyxofibroma osteoid osteoma and giant cell tumors

Example nervous system cancers include for example cancers of the skull osteoma hemangioma granuloma xanthoma osteitis deformans meninges meningioma meningiosarcoma gliomatosis brain astrocytoma meduoblastoma glioma ependymoma germinoma pinealoma glioblastoma multiform oligodendroglioma schwannoma retinoblastoma congenital tumors and spinal cord neurofibroma meningioma glioma sarcoma as well as neuroblastoma and Lhermitte Duclos disease.

Example gynecological cancers include for example cancers of the uterus endometrial carcinoma cervix cervical carcinoma pre tumor cervical dysplasia ovaries ovarian carcinoma serous cystadenocarcinoma mucinous cystadenocarcinoma unclassified carcinoma granulosa thecal cell tumors Sertoli Leydig cell tumors dysgerminoma malignant teratoma vulva squamous cell carcinoma intraepithelial carcinoma adenocarcinoma fibrosarcoma melanoma vagina clear cell carcinoma squamous cell carcinoma botryoid sarcoma embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma and fallopian tubes carcinoma .

Example skin cancers include for example melanoma basal cell carcinoma squamous cell carcinoma Kaposi s sarcoma moles dysplastic nevi lipoma angioma dermatofibroma and keloids.

The compounds of the invention can further be used to treat cancer types where LSD1 may be overexpressed including for example breast prostate head and neck laryngeal oral and thyroid cancers e.g. papillary thyroid carcinoma .

The compounds of the invention can further be used to treat genetic disorders such as Cowden syndrome and Bannayan Zonana syndrome.

The compounds of the invention can further be used to treat viral diseases such as herpes simplex virus HSV varicella zoster virus VZV human cytomegalovirus hepatitis B virus HBV and adenovirus.

The compounds of the invention can further be used to treat beta globinopathies including for example beta thalassemia and sickle cell anemia.

As used herein the term contacting refers to the bringing together of indicated moieties in an in vitro system or an in vivo system. For example contacting a LSD1 protein with a compound of the invention includes the administration of a compound of the present invention to an individual or patient such as a human having a LSD1 protein as well as for example introducing a compound of the invention into a sample containing a cellular or purified preparation containing the LSD1 protein.

As used herein the term individual or patient used interchangeably refers to any animal including mammals preferably mice rats other rodents rabbits dogs cats swine cattle sheep horses or primates and most preferably humans.

As used herein the phrase therapeutically effective amount refers to the amount of active compound or pharmaceutical agent that elicits the biological or medicinal response that is being sought in a tissue system animal individual or human by a researcher veterinarian medical doctor or other clinician.

As used herein the term treating or treatment refers to inhibiting the disease for example inhibiting a disease condition or disorder in an individual who is experiencing or displaying the pathology or symptomatology of the disease condition or disorder i.e. arresting further development of the pathology and or symptomatology or ameliorating the disease for example ameliorating a disease condition or disorder in an individual who is experiencing or displaying the pathology or symptomatology of the disease condition or disorder i.e. reversing the pathology and or symptomatology such as decreasing the severity of disease.

As used herein the term preventing or prevention refers to preventing the disease for example preventing a disease condition or disorder in an individual who may be predisposed to the disease condition or disorder but does not yet experience or display the pathology or symptomatology of the disease.

The compounds of the invention can be used in combination treatments where the compound of the invention is administered in conjunction with other treatments such as the administration of one or more additional therapeutic agents. The additional therapeutic agents are typically those which are normally used to treat the particular condition to be treated. The additional therapeutic agents can include e.g. chemotherapeutics anti inflammatory agents steroids immunosuppressants as well as Bcr Abl Flt 3 RAF FAK JAK PIM PI3K inhibitors for treatment of LSD1 mediated diseases disorders or conditions. The one or more additional pharmaceutical agents can be administered to a patient simultaneously or sequentially.

In some embodiments the compounds of the invention can be used in combination with a therapeutic agent that targets an epigenetic regulator. Examples of epigenetic regulators include the histone lysine methyltransferases histone arginine methyl transferases histone demethylases histone deacetylases histone acetylases and DNA methyltransferases. Histone deacetylase inhibitors include e.g. vorinostat.

For treating cancer and other proliferative diseases the compounds of the invention can be used in combination with chemotherapeutic agents or other anti proliferative agents. The compounds of the invention can also be used in combination with medical therapy such as surgery or radiotherapy e.g. gamma radiation neutron beam radiotherapy electron beam radiotherapy proton therapy brachytherapy and systemic radioactive isotopes. Examples of suitable chemotherapeutic agents include any of abarelix aldesleukin alemtuzumab alitretinoin allopurinol altretamine anastrozole arsenic trioxide asparaginase azacitidine bendamustine bevacizumab bexarotene bleomycin bortezombi bortezomib busulfan intravenous busulfan oral calusterone capecitabine carboplatin carmustine cetuximab chlorambucil cisplatin cladribine clofarabine cyclophosphamide cytarabine dacarbazine dactinomycin dalteparin sodium dasatinib daunorubicin decitabine denileukin denileukin diftitox dexrazoxane docetaxel doxorubicin dromostanolone propionate eculizumab epirubicin erlotinib estramustine etoposide phosphate etoposide exemestane fentanyl citrate filgrastim floxuridine fludarabine fluorouracil fulvestrant gefitinib gemcitabine gemtuzumab ozogamicin goserelin acetate histrelin acetate ibritumomab tiuxetan idarubicin ifosfamide imatinib mesylate interferon alfa 2a irinotecan lapatinib ditosylate lenalidomide letrozole leucovorin leuprolide acetate levamisole lomustine meclorethamine megestrol acetate melphalan mercaptopurine methotrexate methoxsalen mitomycin C mitotane mitoxantrone nandrolone phenpropionate nelarabine nofetumomab oxaliplatin paclitaxel pamidronate panitumumab panobinostat pegaspargase pegfilgrastim pemetrexed disodium pentostatin pipobroman plicamycin procarbazine quinacrine rasburicase rituximab ruxolitinib sorafenib streptozocin sunitinib sunitinib maleate tamoxifen temozolomide teniposide testolactone thalidomide thioguanine thiotepa topotecan toremifene tositumomab trastuzumab tretinoin uracil mustard valrubicin vinblastine vincristine vinorelbine vorinostat and zoledronate.

For treating cancer and other proliferative diseases the compounds of the invention can be used in combination with ruxolitinib.

For treating cancer and other proliferative diseases the compounds of the invention can be used in combination with targeted therapies including JAK kinase inhibitors Ruxolitinib JAK1 selective Pim kinase inhibitors PI3 kinase inhibitors including PI3K delta selective and broad spectrum PI3K inhibitors MEK inhibitors Cyclin Dependent kinase inhibitors b RAF inhibitors mTOR inhibitors Proteasome inhibitors Bortezomib Carfilzomib HDAC inhibitors Panobinostat Vorinostat DNA methyl transferase inhibitors dexamethasone bromo and extra terminal family members inhibitors and indoleamine 2 3 dioxygenase inhibitors.

For treating autoimmune or inflammatory conditions the compound of the invention can be administered in combination with a corticosteroid such as triamcinolone dexamethasone fluocinolone cortisone prednisolone or flumetholone.

For treating autoimmune or inflammatory conditions the compound of the invention can be administered in combination with an immune suppressant such as fluocinolone acetonide Retisert rimexolone AL 2178 Vexol Alcon or cyclosporine Restasis .

For treating autoimmune or inflammatory conditions the compound of the invention can be administered in combination with one or more additional agents selected from Dehydrex Holles Labs Civamide Opko sodium hyaluronate Vismed Lantibio TRB Chemedia cyclosporine ST 603 Sirion Therapeutics ARG101 T testosterone Argentis AGR1012 P Argentis ecabet sodium Senju Ista gefarnate Santen 15 s hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid 15 S HETE cevilemine doxycycline ALTY 0501 Alacrity minocycline iDestrin NP50301 Nascent Pharmaceuticals cyclosporine A Nova22007 Novagali oxytetracycline Duramycin MOLI1901 Lantibio CF101 2S 3S 4R 5R 3 4 dihydroxy 5 6 3 iodophenyl methylamino purin 9 yl N methyl oxolane 2 carbamyl Can Fite Biopharma voclosporin LX212 or LX214 Lux Biosciences ARG103 Agentis RX 10045 synthetic resolvin analog Resolvyx DYN15 Dyanmis Therapeutics rivoglitazone DE011 Daiichi Sanko TB4 RegeneRx OPH 01 Ophtalmis Monaco PCS101 Pericor Science REV1 31 Evolutec Lacritin Senju rebamipide Otsuka Novartis OT 551 Othera PAI 2 University of Pennsylvania and Temple University pilocarpine tacrolimus pimecrolimus AMS981 Novartis loteprednol etabonate rituximab diquafosol tetrasodium INS365 Inspire KLS 0611 Kissei Pharmaceuticals dehydroepiandrosterone anakinra efalizumab mycophenolate sodium etanercept Embrel hydroxychloroquine NGX267 TorreyPines Therapeutics or thalidomide.

In some embodiments the compound of the invention can be administered in combination with one or more agents selected from an antibiotic antiviral antifungal anesthetic anti inflammatory agents including steroidal and non steroidal anti inflammatories and anti allergic agents. Examples of suitable medicaments include aminoglycosides such as amikacin gentamycin tobramycin streptomycin netilmycin and kanamycin fluoroquinolones such as ciprofloxacin norfloxacin ofloxacin trovafloxacin lomefloxacin levofloxacin and enoxacin naphthyridine sulfonamides polymyxin chloramphenicol neomycin paramomycin colistimethate bacitracin vancomycin tetracyclines rifampin and its derivatives rifampins cycloserine beta lactams cephalosporins amphotericins fluconazole flucytosine natamycin miconazole ketoconazole corticosteroids diclofenac flurbiprofen ketorolac suprofen cromolyn lodoxamide levocabastin naphazoline antazoline pheniramine or azalide antibiotic.

Other examples of agents one or more of which a provided compound may also be combined with include a treatment for Alzheimer s Disease such as donepezil and rivastigmine a treatment for Parkinson s Disease such as L DOPA carbidopa entacapone ropinirole pramipexole bromocriptine pergolide trihexyphenidyl and amantadine an agent for treating multiple sclerosis MS such as beta interferon e.g. Avonex and Rebif glatiramer acetate and mitoxantrone a treatment for asthma such as albuterol and montelukast an agent for treating schizophrenia such as zyprexa risperdal seroquel and haloperidol an anti inflammatory agent such as a corticosteroid such as dexamethasone or prednisone a TNF blocker IL 1 RA azathioprine cyclophosphamide and sulfasalazine an immunomodulatory agent including immunosuppressive agents such as cyclosporin tacrolimus rapamycin mycophenolate mofetil an interferon a corticosteroid cyclophosphamide azathioprine and sulfasalazine a neurotrophic factor such as an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor an MAO inhibitor an interferon an anti convulsant an ion channel blocker riluzole or an anti Parkinson s agent an agent for treating cardiovascular disease such as a beta blocker an ACE inhibitor a diuretic a nitrate a calcium channel blocker or a statin an agent for treating liver disease such as a corticosteroid cholestyramine an interferon and an anti viral agent an agent for treating blood disorders such as a corticosteroid an anti leukemic agent or a growth factor or an agent for treating immunodeficiency disorders such as gamma globulin.

Biological drugs such as antibodies and cytokines used as anticancer angents can be combined with the compounds of the invention. In addition drugs modulating microenvironment or immune responses can be combined with the compounds of the invention. Examples of such drugs are anti Her2 antibodies anti CD20 antibodies anti CTLA1 anti PD 1 anti PDL1 and other immunotherapeutic drugs.

When employed as pharmaceuticals the compounds of the invention can be administered in the form of pharmaceutical compositions. These compositions can be prepared in a manner well known in the pharmaceutical art and can be administered by a variety of routes depending upon whether local or systemic treatment is desired and upon the area to be treated. Administration may be topical including transdermal epidermal ophthalmic and to mucous membranes including intranasal vaginal and rectal delivery pulmonary e.g. by inhalation or insufflation of powders or aerosols including by nebulizer intratracheal or intranasal oral or parenteral. Parenteral administration includes intravenous intraarterial subcutaneous intraperitoneal intramuscular or injection or infusion or intracranial e.g. intrathecal or intraventricular administration. Parenteral administration can be in the form of a single bolus dose or may be for example by a continuous perfusion pump. Pharmaceutical compositions and formulations for topical administration may include transdermal patches ointments lotions creams gels drops suppositories sprays liquids and powders. Conventional pharmaceutical carriers aqueous powder or oily bases thickeners and the like may be necessary or desirable.

This invention also includes pharmaceutical compositions which contain as the active ingredient the compound of the invention or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof in combination with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers excipients . In some embodiments the composition is suitable for topical administration. In making the compositions of the invention the active ingredient is typically mixed with an excipient diluted by an excipient or enclosed within such a carrier in the form of for example a capsule sachet paper or other container. When the excipient serves as a diluent it can be a solid semi solid or liquid material which acts as a vehicle carrier or medium for the active ingredient. Thus the compositions can be in the form of tablets pills powders lozenges sachets cachets elixirs suspensions emulsions solutions syrups aerosols as a solid or in a liquid medium ointments containing for example up to 10 by weight of the active compound soft and hard gelatin capsules suppositories sterile injectable solutions and sterile packaged powders.

In preparing a formulation the active compound can be milled to provide the appropriate particle size prior to combining with the other ingredients. If the active compound is substantially insoluble it can be milled to a particle size of less than 200 mesh. If the active compound is substantially water soluble the particle size can be adjusted by milling to provide a substantially uniform distribution in the formulation e.g. about 40 mesh.

The compounds of the invention may be milled using known milling procedures such as wet milling to obtain a particle size appropriate for tablet formation and for other formulation types. Finely divided nanoparticulate preparations of the compounds of the invention can be prepared by processes known in the art e.g. see International App. No. WO 2002 000196.

Some examples of suitable excipients include lactose dextrose sucrose sorbitol mannitol starches gum acacia calcium phosphate alginates tragacanth gelatin calcium silicate microcrystalline cellulose polyvinylpyrrolidone cellulose water syrup and methyl cellulose. The formulations can additionally include lubricating agents such as talc magnesium stearate and mineral oil wetting agents emulsifying and suspending agents preserving agents such as methyl and propylhydroxy benzoates sweetening agents and flavoring agents. The compositions of the invention can be formulated so as to provide quick sustained or delayed release of the active ingredient after administration to the patient by employing procedures known in the art.

The compositions can be formulated in a unit dosage form each dosage containing from about 5 to about 1 000 mg 1 g more usually about 100 mg to about 500 mg of the active ingredient. The term unit dosage forms refers to physically discrete units suitable as unitary dosages for human subjects and other mammals each unit containing a predetermined quantity of active material calculated to produce the desired therapeutic effect in association with a suitable pharmaceutical excipient.

The active compound may be effective over a wide dosage range and is generally administered in a pharmaceutically effective amount. It will be understood however that the amount of the compound actually administered will usually be determined by a physician according to the relevant circumstances including the condition to be treated the chosen route of administration the actual compound administered the age weight and response of the individual patient the severity of the patient s symptoms and the like.

For preparing solid compositions such as tablets the principal active ingredient is mixed with a pharmaceutical excipient to form a solid preformulation composition containing a homogeneous mixture of a compound of the present invention. When referring to these preformulation compositions as homogeneous the active ingredient is typically dispersed evenly throughout the composition so that the composition can be readily subdivided into equally effective unit dosage forms such as tablets pills and capsules. This solid preformulation is then subdivided into unit dosage forms of the type described above containing from for example about 0.1 to about 1000 mg of the active ingredient of the present invention.

The tablets or pills of the present invention can be coated or otherwise compounded to provide a dosage form affording the advantage of prolonged action. For example the tablet or pill can comprise an inner dosage and an outer dosage component the latter being in the form of an envelope over the former. The two components can be separated by an enteric layer which serves to resist disintegration in the stomach and permit the inner component to pass intact into the duodenum or to be delayed in release. A variety of materials can be used for such enteric layers or coatings such materials including a number of polymeric acids and mixtures of polymeric acids with such materials as shellac cetyl alcohol and cellulose acetate.

The liquid forms in which the compounds and compositions of the present invention can be incorporated for administration orally or by injection include aqueous solutions suitably flavored syrups aqueous or oil suspensions and flavored emulsions with edible oils such as cottonseed oil sesame oil coconut oil or peanut oil as well as elixirs and similar pharmaceutical vehicles.

Compositions for inhalation or insufflation include solutions and suspensions in pharmaceutically acceptable aqueous or organic solvents or mixtures thereof and powders. The liquid or solid compositions may contain suitable pharmaceutically acceptable excipients as described supra. In some embodiments the compositions are administered by the oral or nasal respiratory route for local or systemic effect. Compositions can be nebulized by use of inert gases. Nebulized solutions may be breathed directly from the nebulizing device or the nebulizing device can be attached to a face masks tent or intermittent positive pressure breathing machine. Solution suspension or powder compositions can be administered orally or nasally from devices which deliver the formulation in an appropriate manner.

Topical formulations can contain one or more conventional carriers. In some embodiments ointments can contain water and one or more hydrophobic carriers selected from for example liquid paraffin polyoxyethylene alkyl ether propylene glycol white vaseline and the like. Carrier compositions of creams can be based on water in combination with glycerol and one or more other components e.g. glycerinemonostearate PEG glycerinemonostearate and cetylstearyl alcohol. Gels can be formulated using isopropyl alcohol and water suitably in combination with other components such as for example glycerol hydroxyethyl cellulose and the like. In some embodiments topical formulations contain at least about 0.1 at least about 0.25 at least about 0.5 at least about 1 at least about 2 or at least about 5 wt of the compound of the invention. The topical formulations can be suitably packaged in tubes of for example 100 g which are optionally associated with instructions for the treatment of the select indication e.g. psoriasis or other skin condition.

The amount of compound or composition administered to a patient will vary depending upon what is being administered the purpose of the administration such as prophylaxis or therapy the state of the patient the manner of administration and the like. In therapeutic applications compositions can be administered to a patient already suffering from a disease in an amount sufficient to cure or at least partially arrest the symptoms of the disease and its complications. Effective doses will depend on the disease condition being treated as well as by the judgment of the attending clinician depending upon factors such as the severity of the disease the age weight and general condition of the patient and the like.

The compositions administered to a patient can be in the form of pharmaceutical compositions described above. These compositions can be sterilized by conventional sterilization techniques or may be sterile filtered. Aqueous solutions can be packaged for use as is or lyophilized the lyophilized preparation being combined with a sterile aqueous carrier prior to administration. The pH of the compound preparations typically will be between 3 and 11 more preferably from 5 to 9 and most preferably from 7 to 8. It will be understood that use of certain of the foregoing excipients carriers or stabilizers will result in the formation of pharmaceutical salts.

The therapeutic dosage of a compound of the present invention can vary according to for example the particular use for which the treatment is made the manner of administration of the compound the health and condition of the patient and the judgment of the prescribing physician. The proportion or concentration of a compound of the invention in a pharmaceutical composition can vary depending upon a number of factors including dosage chemical characteristics e.g. hydrophobicity and the route of administration. For example the compounds of the invention can be provided in an aqueous physiological buffer solution containing about 0.1 to about 10 w v of the compound for parenteral administration. Some typical dose ranges are from about 1 g kg to about 1 g kg of body weight per day. In some embodiments the dose range is from about 0.01 mg kg to about 100 mg kg of body weight per day. The dosage is likely to depend on such variables as the type and extent of progression of the disease or disorder the overall health status of the particular patient the relative biological efficacy of the compound selected formulation of the excipient and its route of administration. Effective doses can be extrapolated from dose response curves derived from in vitro or animal model test systems.

The compositions of the invention can further include one or more additional pharmaceutical agents such as a chemotherapeutic steroid anti inflammatory compound or immunosuppressant examples of which are listed hereinabove.

The compounds of the invention can be provided with or used in combination with a companion diagnostic. As used herein the term companion diagnostic refers to a diagnostic device useful for determining the safe and effective use of a therapeutic agent. For example a companion diagnostic may be used to customize dosage of a therapeutic agent for a given subject identify appropriate subpopulations for treatment or identify populations who should not receive a particular treatment because of an increased risk of a serious side effect.

In some embodiments the companion diagnostic is used to monitor treatment response in a patient. In some embodiments the companion diagnostic is used to identify a subject that is likely to benefit from a given compound or therapeutic agent. In some embodiments the companion diagnostic is used to identify a subject having an increased risk of adverse side effects from administration of a therapeutic agent compared to a reference standard. In some embodiments the companion diagnostic is an in vitro diagnostic or imaging tool selected from the list of FDA cleared or approved companion diagnostic devices. In some embodiments the companion diagnostic is selected from the list of tests that have been cleared or approved by the Center for Devices and Radiological Health.

Another aspect of the present invention relates to labeled compounds of the invention radio labeled fluorescent labeled etc. that would be useful not only in imaging techniques but also in assays both in vitro and in vivo for localizing and quantitating LSD1 in tissue samples including human and for identifying LSD1 ligands by inhibition binding of a labeled compound. Accordingly the present invention includes LSD1 assays that contain such labeled compounds.

The present invention further includes isotopically labeled compounds of the invention. An isotopically or radio labeled compound is a compound of the invention where one or more atoms are replaced or substituted by an atom having an atomic mass or mass number different from the atomic mass or mass number typically found in nature i.e. naturally occurring . Suitable radionuclides that may be incorporated in compounds of the present invention include but are not limited to H also written as T for tritium C C C N N O O O F S Cl Br Br Br Br I I I and I. The radionuclide that is incorporated in the instant radio labeled compounds will depend on the specific application of that radio labeled compound.

It is to be understood that a radio labeled or labeled compound is a compound that has incorporated at least one radionuclide. In some embodiments the radionuclide is selected from the group consisting of H C I S and Br. In some embodiments the compound incorporates 1 2 or 3 deuterium atoms.

The present invention can further include synthetic methods for incorporating radio isotopes into compounds of the invention. Synthetic methods for incorporating radio isotopes into organic compounds are well known in the art and an ordinary skill in the art will readily recognize the methods applicable for the compounds of invention.

A labeled compound of the invention can be used in a screening assay to identify evaluate compounds. For example a newly synthesized or identified compound i.e. test compound which is labeled can be evaluated for its ability to bind LSD1 by monitoring its concentration variation when contacting with LSD1 through tracking of the labeling. For example a test compound labeled can be evaluated for its ability to reduce binding of another compound which is known to bind to LSD1 i.e. standard compound . Accordingly the ability of a test compound to compete with the standard compound for binding to LSD1 directly correlates to its binding affinity. Conversely in some other screening assays the standard compound is labeled and test compounds are unlabeled. Accordingly the concentration of the labeled standard compound is monitored in order to evaluate the competition between the standard compound and the test compound and the relative binding affinity of the test compound is thus ascertained.

The invention will be described in greater detail by way of specific examples. The following examples are offered for illustrative purposes and are not intended to limit the invention in any manner. Those of skill in the art will readily recognize a variety of non critical parameters which can be changed or modified to yield essentially the same results. The compounds of the Examples were found to be inhibitors of LSD1 as described below.

Experimental procedures for compounds of the invention are provided below. Preparatory LC MS purifications of some of the compounds prepared were performed on Waters mass directed fractionation systems. The basic equipment setup protocols and control software for the operation of these systems have been described in detail in the literature. See e.g. Two Pump At Column Dilution Configuration for Preparative LC MS K. Blom 4 295 2002 Optimizing Preparative LC MS Configurations and Methods for Parallel Synthesis Purification K. Blom R. Sparks J. Doughty G. Everlof T. Hague A. Combs 5 670 2003 and Preparative LC MS Purification Improved Compound Specific Method Optimization K. Blom B. Glass R. Sparks A. Combs 6 874 883 2004 . The compounds separated were typically subjected to analytical liquid chromatography mass spectrometry LCMS for purity check under the following conditions Instrument Agilent 1100 series LC MSD Column Waters Sunfire C5 m particle size 2.1 5.0 mm Buffers mobile phase A 0.025 TFA in water and mobile phase B acetonitrile gradient 2 to 80 of B in 3 minutes with flow rate 2.0 mL minute.

Some of the compounds prepared were also separated on a preparative scale by reverse phase high performance liquid chromatography RP HPLC with MS detector or flash chromatography silica gel as indicated in the Examples. Typical preparative reverse phase high performance liquid chromatography RP HPLC column conditions are as follows 

pH 2 purifications Waters Sunfire C5 m particle size 19 100 mm column eluting with mobile phase A 0.1 TFA trifluoroacetic acid in water and mobile phase B acetonitrile the flow rate was 30 mL minute the separating gradient was optimized for each compound using the Compound Specific Method Optimization protocol as described in the literature see Preparative LCMS Purification Improved Compound Specific Method Optimization K. Blom B. Glass R. Sparks A. Combs 6 874 883 2004 . Typically the flow rate used with the 30 100 mm column was 60 mL minute.

pH 10 purifications Waters XBridge C5 m particle size 19 100 mm column eluting with mobile phase A 0.15 NHOH in water and mobile phase B acetonitrile the flow rate was 30 mL minute the separating gradient was optimized for each compound using the Compound Specific Method Optimization protocol as described in the literature See Preparative LCMS Purification Improved Compound Specific Method Optimization K. Blom B. Glass R. Sparks A. Combs 6 874 883 2004 . Typically the flow rate used with 30 100 mm column was 60 mL minute.

To the solution of tert butyl 3 formylazetidine 1 carboxylate 556 mg 3.00 mmol Alfa Aesar Cat H52794 and 2 phenylcyclopropanamine hydrochloride 600. mg 3.54 mmol trans racemic J W PharmLab Cat 20 0073S Lot JW152 128A in DCM 10 mL was added acetic acid 510 L 9.0 mmol . The resulting yellow solution was stirred at room temperature overnight then Na OAc BH 1.9 g 9.0 mmol was added. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h then diluted with DCM washed with saturated NaCO water and brine. The organic layer was dried over NaSOthen concentrated. The residue was purified on silica gel column eluting with 0 to 100 EtOAc Hexanes to give the desired product 513 mg 57 as a light yellow oil. LC MS calculated for CHNO M Bu 2H m z 247.1. found 247.2.

To a solution of tert butyl 3 trans 2 phenylcyclopropyl amino methylazetidine 1 carboxylate 187 mg 0.618 mmol in DCM 5 mL at 0 C. was added triethylamine 0.431 mL 3.09 mmol followed by dropwise addition of trifluoroacetic anhydride 114 L 0.804 mmol . The resulting yellow solution was stirred at 0 C. for 1 h then quenched with saturated NaHCOsolution and extracted with DCM. The combined extracts were dried over NaSOthen concentrated. The residue was purified on silica gel column eluting with 0 to 60 EtOAc Hexanes to give the desired product 228 mg 93 as a yellow oil. LC MS calculated for CHFNO M Bu 2H m z 343.1. found 343.2.

To the solution of tert butyl 3 trans 2 phenylcyclopropyl trifluoroacetypamino methylazetidine 1 carboxylate 228 mg 0.572 mmol in DCM 3 mL was added TFA 3 mL . The resulting light yellow solution was stirred at room temperature for 1 h then concentrated. The residue TFA salt was used in the next step without further purification. LC MS calculated for CHFNO M H m z 299.1. found 299.2.

A mixture of N azetidin 3 ylmethyl 2 2 2 trifluoro N trans 2 phenylcyclopropypacetamide 20 mg 0.048 mmol 3 4 difluorobenzonitrile 6.7 mg 0.048 mmol and potassium carbonate 16 mg 0.12 mmol in DMF 0.5 mL was stirred at 120 C. for 2 h. The reaction mixture was then cooled to room temperature diluted with EtOAc filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to afford the crude product which was used in the next step without further purification. LC MS calculated for CHFNO M H m z 418.2. found 418.1.

The crude product from Step 4 was dissolved in THF 0.5 mL and MeOH 0.5 mL then 1 N sodium hydroxide in water 0.5 mL was added. The reaction mixture was stirred at 40 C. for 1 h then cooled to room temperature filtered and purified by prep. HPLC pH 10 acetonitrile water NHOH to afford the desired product. LC MS calculated for CHFN M H m z 322.2. found 322.1.

This compound was prepared using procedures analogous to those described for the synthesis of Example 1 with 3 4 5 trifluorobenzonitrile replacing 3 4 difluorobenzonitrile in Step 4. LC MS calculated for CHFN M H m z 340.2. found 340.1.

This compound was prepared using procedures analogous to those described for the synthesis of Example 1 with 2 4 5 trifluoro N isopropylbenzamide prepared using similar methods as disclosed in the literature such as WO 2012 177606 replacing 3 4 difluorobenzonitrile in Step 4. LC MS calculated for CHFNO M H m z 400.2. found 400.2.

This compound was prepared using procedures analogous to those described for the synthesis of Example 1 with 6 fluoro 2 methylnicotinonitrile replacing 3 4 difluorobenzonitrile in Step 4. LC MS calculated for CHN M H m z 319.2. found 319.1.

This compound was prepared using procedures analogous to those described for the synthesis of Example 1 with 5 chloro N ethylpyrazine 2 carboxamide prepared using similar methods as disclosed in the literature such as WO 2012 177606 replacing 3 4 difluorobenzonitrile in Step 4. LC MS calculated for CHNO M H m z 352.2. found 352.2.

This compound was prepared using procedures analogous to those described for the synthesis of Example 1 with 3 4 5 trifluoro N isopropylbenzamide prepared using similar methods as disclosed in the literature such as WO 2012 177606 replacing 3 4 difluorobenzonitrile in Step 4. LC MS calculated for CHFNO M H m z 400.2. found 400.2.

This compound was prepared using procedures analogous to those described for the synthesis of Example 1 with 2 4 6 trifluoro N isopropylbenzamide prepared using similar methods as disclosed in the literature such as WO 2012 177606 replacing 3 4 difluorobenzonitrile in Step 4. LC MS calculated for CHFNO M H m z 400.2. found 400.2.

A container with a mixture of N azetidin 3 ylmethyl 2 2 2 trifluoro N trans 2 phenylcyclopropl acetamide 23 mg 0.056 mmol prepared as described in Example 1 Step 3 4 bromo 2 3 difluoro N isopropylbenzamide 24 mg 0.084 mmol prepared using similar methods as disclosed in the literature such as WO 2012 177606 palladium acetate 1 mg 0.006 mmol R 2 2 bis diphenylphosphino 1 1 binaphthyl 4 mg 0.006 mmol and cesium carbonate 55 mg 0.17 mmol in 1 4 dioxane 1 mL was evacuated then refilled with nitrogen. After stirring at 125 C. overnight the reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature then 1N NaOH 0.5 mL and MeOH 1 mL were added. The resulting mixture was stirred at 40 C. for 1 h then cooled to room temperature filtered and purified by prep HPLC pH 10 acetonitrile water NHOH to afford the desired product. LC MS calculated for CHFNO M H m z 400.2. found 400.1.

This compound was prepared using procedures analogous to those described for the synthesis of Example 8 with 4 bromo 2 chloro 5 fluoro N isopropylbenzamide prepared using similar methods as disclosed in the literature such as WO 2012 177606 replacing 4 bromo 2 3 difluoro N isopropylbenzamide. LC MS calculated for CHClFNO M H m z 416.2. found 416.1.

This compound was prepared using procedures analogous to those described for the synthesis of Example 8 with 4 bromo 3 fluoro N isopropylbenzamide prepared using similar methods as disclosed in the literature such as WO 2012 177606 replacing 4 bromo 2 3 difluoro N isopropylbenzamide. LC MS calculated for CHFNO M H m z 382.2. found 382.2.

This compound was prepared using procedures analogous to those described for the synthesis of Example 8 with 4 bromo 2 fluoro N isopropylbenzamide prepared using similar methods as disclosed in the literature such as WO 2012 177606 replacing 4 bromo 2 3 difluoro N isopropylbenzamide. LC MS calculated for CHFNO M H m z 382.2. found 382.2.

This compound was prepared using procedures analogous to those described for the synthesis of Example 8 with 4 bromo 2 fluoro N isopropyl 5 methylbenzamide prepared using similar methods as disclosed in the literature such as WO 2012 177606 replacing 4 bromo 2 3 difluoro N isopropylbenzamide. LC MS calculated for CHFNO M H m z 396.2. found 396.4.

This compound was prepared using procedures analogous to those described for the synthesis of Example 8 with 4 bromo N isopropyl 2 methoxybenzamide prepared using similar methods as disclosed in the literature such as WO 2012 177606 replacing 4 bromo 2 3 difluoro N isopropylbenzamide. LC MS calculated for CHNO M H m z 394.2. found 394.4.

This compound was prepared using procedures analogous to those described for the synthesis of Example 8 with 4 bromo 3 chloro N isopropylbenzamide prepared using similar methods as disclosed in the literature such as WO 2012 177606 replacing 4 bromo 2 3 difluoro N isopropylbenzamide. LC MS calculated for CHClNO M H m z 398.2. found 398.2.

This compound was prepared using procedures analogous to those described for the synthesis of Example 8 with 5 bromo N 1 trifluoromethyl cyclopropyl pyridine 2 carboxamide prepared using similar methods as disclosed in the literature such as WO 2012 177606 replacing 4 bromo 2 3 difluoro N isopropylbenzamide. LC MS calculated for CHFNO M H m z 431.2. found 431.2.

This compound was prepared using procedures analogous to those described for the synthesis of Example 8 with 4 chloro 6 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl pyrimidine Combi Blocks cat QA 3632 replacing 4 bromo 2 3 difluoro N isopropylbenzamide. LC MS calculated for CHN M H m z 379.3. found 379.4.

This compound was prepared using procedures analogous to those described for the synthesis of Example 8 with 4 bromo 1 methyl 1H pyrazole replacing 4 bro mo 2 3 difluoro N isopropylbenzamide. LC MS calculated for CHN M H m z 283.2. found 283.2.

To a solution of 1 tert butyl 4 methyl piperidine 1 4 dicarboxylate 0.97 g 4.0 mmol in THF 20 mL at 40 C. was added 2.0 M LDA in THF 2.8 mL 5.6 mmol dropwise. The resulting mixture was stirred at 40 C. for 30 min then bromoacetonitrile 0.44 mL 6.4 mmol was added. The reaction mixture was stirred at 40 C. for 2 h then quenched with water. The mixture was warmed to room temperature then diluted with EtOAc washed with water and brine. The organic layer was dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by flash chromatography on a silica gel column eluting with EtOAc in hexane 0 30 to give the desired product. LC MS calculated for CHNO M Bu 2H m z 227.1. found 227.2.

To the solution of 1 tert butyl 4 methyl 4 cyanomethyl piperidine 1 4 dicarboxylate 0.60 g 2.1 mmol in THF 4.0 mL MeOH 4.0 mL water 1.0 mL was added lithium hydroxide monohydrate 0.44 g 11 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h then acidified with cold 1 N HCl and extracted with EtOAc. The extract was washed with water brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was used in the next step without further purification. LC MS calculated for CHNO M Bu 2H m z 213.1. found 213.1.

To a solution of 1 tert butoxycarbonyl 4 cyanomethyl piperidine 4 carboxylic acid 0.50 g 1.9 mmol and triethylamine 0.52 mL 3.7 mmol in THF 6 mL at 0 C. was added ethyl chloroformate 0.21 mL 2.2 mmol . The resulting mixture was stirred for 30 min then filtered and washed with THF 2 mL . The filtrate was cooled to 0 C. and then sodium tetrahydroborate 0.14 g 3.7 mmol in methanol 1 mL water 1 mL was added. The mixture was warmed to room temperature then stirred for 30 min. The mixture was diluted with EtOAc washed with saturated NaHCO water and brine. The organic layer was dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was used in the next step without further purification. LC MS calculated for CHNO M Bu 2H m z 199.1. found 199.1.

To a solution of tert butyl 4 cyanomethyl 4 hydroxymethyl piperidine 1 carboxylate 400.0 mg 1.573 mmol in DCM 8 mL was added Dess Martin periodinane 1.0 g 2.4 mmol . The resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 h then saturated NaSOaqueous solution was added and stirred for 10 min. The mixture was diluted with DCM washed with 1N NaOH water and brine. The organic layer was dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by flash chromatography on a silica gel column eluting with EtOAc in hexane 0 30 to give the desired product. LC MS calculated for CHNO M Bu 2H m z 197.1. found 197.1.

To the solution of tert butyl 4 cyanomethyl 4 formylpiperidine 1 carboxylate 180.0 mg 0.7134 mmol and 2 phenylcyclopropanamine 114 mg 0.856 mmol trans racemic J W PharmLab Cat 20 0073S in DCM 3.0 mL was added acetic acid 0.061 mL 1.1 mmol . The mixture was stirred at r.t. for 2 h then sodium triacetoxyborohydride 300 mg 1.4 mmol was added. The resulting mixture was stirred at r.t. for 2 h then diluted with DCM washed with saturated NaHCO water and brine. The organic layer was dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by flash chromatography on a silica gel column eluting with methanol in methylene chloride 0 8 to give the desired product. LC MS calculated for CHNO M H m z 370.2. found 370.3.

To a solution of tert butyl 4 cyanomethyl 4 trans 2 phenylcyclopropyl amino methylpiperidine 1 carboxylate 0.18 g 0.49 mmol and DIEA 0.17 mL 0.97 mmol in DCM 2.4 mL at 0 C. was added dropwise trifluoroacetic anhydride 0.08 mL 0.58 mmol . The mixture was warmed to room temperature and stirred for 1 h then diluted with DCM washed with saturated NaHCO water and brine. The organic layer was dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by flash chromatography on a silica gel column eluting with EtOAc in hexane 0 20 to give the desired product. LC MS calculated for CHFNO M Bu 2H m z 410.2. found 410.1.

To a solution of tert butyl 4 cyanomethyl 4 trans 2 phenylcyclopropyl trifluoroacetyl amino methylpiperidine 1 carboxylate 0.16 g 0.34 mmol in DCM 0.2 mL was added 4.0 M hydrogen chloride in dioxane 0.8 mL 3.2 mmol . The resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 30 min then concentrated. The residue was used in the next step without further purification. LC MS calculated for CHFNO M H m z 366.2. found 366.1.

To a solution of N 4 cyanomethyl piperidin 4 yl methyl 2 2 2 trifluoro N trans 2 phenylcyclopropyl acetamide 15.0 mg 0.0410 mmol and 2 chloro 6 fluorobenzonitrile 13 mg 0.082 mmol in NMP 0.4 mL was added DIEA 29 L 0.16 mmol . The resulting mixture was stirred at 140 C. for 3 h then cooled to room temperature and 1 N NaOH 1.0 mL was added. The mixture was stirred at 40 C. for 2 h then cooled to room temperature and purified by prep HPLC pH 2 acetonitrile water TFA to afford the desired product as TFA salt. LC MS calculated for CHClN M H m z 405.2. found 405.1.

This compound was prepared using procedures analogous to those described for the synthesis of Example 18 with 2 chloro 3 trifluoromethyl pyridine replacing 2 chloro 6 fluorobenzonitrile. LC MS calculated for CHFN M H m z 415.2. found 415.3.

To a solution of N N diisopropylamine 4.9 mL 35 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 80 mL at 78 C. was added n butyllithium 2.5 M in hexanes 14 mL 35 mmol . The resulting mixture was warmed to 20 C. and stirred for 10 min then cooled to 78 C. and a solution of 1 tert butyl 4 methyl piperidine 1 4 dicarboxylate AstaTech cat B56857 6.08 g 25.0 mmol in THF 10 mL was slowly added. The reaction mixture was slowly warmed to 40 C. and stirred for 1 h. The mixture was then cooled to 78 C. and bromo 4 fluorotoluene 4.9 mL 40. mmol was added. The reaction mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 1 h then quenched with saturated NHCl warmed to room temperature and diluted with ethyl ether. The mixture was then washed with water brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by flash chromatography on a silica gel column eluting with EtOAc in hexane 0 20 to give the desired product 6.5 g 74 . LC MS calculated for CHFNO M Bu 2H m z 296.1. found 296.1.

To a solution of 1 tert butyl 4 methyl 4 4 fluorobenzyl piperidine 1 4 dicarboxylate 6.5 g 18 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 90 mL at 0 C. was added LiAlH 1 M in THF 24 mL 24 mmol slowly. The resulting mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 30 min then water 0.9 mL was added followed by NaOH 15 wt in water 0.9 mL and water 0.9 mL . The mixture was stirred for 20 min then filtered and washed with THF. The filtrate was concentrated and the residue 5.8 g 97 was used in the next step without further purification. LC MS calculated for CHFNO M Bu 2H m z 268.1. found 268.1.

A solution of dimethyl sulfoxide 4.3 mL 60. mmol in methylene chloride 6 mL was added to a solution of oxalyl chloride 2.6 mL 30 mmol in methylene chloride at 78 C. over 10 min and then the resulting mixture was warmed to 60 C. over 25 min. A solution of tert butyl 4 4 fluorobenzyl 4 hydroxymethyl piperidine 1 carboxylate 5.2 g 16 mmol in methylene chloride 6 mL was slowly added and then warmed to 45 C. over 30 mins. N N Diisopropylethylamine 21 mL 120 mmol was then added and the mixture was warmed to 0 C. over 15 min. The mixture was poured into a cold 1 N HCl aqueous solution and then extracted with ethyl ether. The combined extracts were dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by flash chromatography on a silica gel column eluting with EtOAc in hexane 0 20 to give the desired product 4.3 g 83 . LC MS calculated for CHFNO M Bu 2H m z 266.1. found 266.1.

To a solution of tert butyl 4 4 fluorobenzyl 4 formylpiperidine 1 carboxylate 4.2 g 13 mmol and 1R 2S 2 phenylcyclopropanamine 1.96 g 14.7 mmol prepared using procedures as described in 2011 21 4429 in 1 2 dichloroethane 50 mL was added acetic acid 1.1 mL 20. mmol . The resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h then sodium triacetoxyborohydride 5.7 g 27 mmol was added. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 5 h then diluted with methylene chloride washed with 1 N NaOH aqueous solution water and brine. The organic layer was dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by flash chromatography on a silica gel column eluting with MeOH in DCM 0 6 to give the desired product 5.0 g 87 . LC MS calculated for CHFNO M H m z 439.3. found 439.2.

Trifluoroacetic anhydride 2.08 mL 14.7 mmol was added to a solution of tert butyl 4 4 fluorobenzyl 4 1R 2S 2 phenylcyclopropyl aminomethyl piperidine 1 carboxylate 4.3 g 9.8 mmol and N N diisopropylethylamine 4.3 mL 24 mmol in methylene chloride 40 mL at 0 C. The resulting mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 1 h then diluted with ether and washed with 1 N HCl water and brine. The organic layer was dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by flash chromatography on a silica gel column eluting with EtOAc in hexanes 0 30 to give the desired product 4.6 g 88 . LC MS calculated for CHFNO M Bu 2H m z 479.2. found 479.2.

Hydrogen chloride 4 M in 1 4 dioxane 20 mL 80 mmol was added to a solution of tert butyl 4 4 fluorobenzyl 4 1R 2S 2 phenylcyclopropyl trifluoroacetyl amino methyl piperidine 1 carboxylate 4.6 g 8.6 mmol in methylene chloride 6 mL . The resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 30 min then concentrated. The residue was used in the next step without further purification. LC MS calculated for CHFNO M H m z 435.2. found 435.2.

N N Diisopropylethylamine 0.040 mL 0.23 mmol was added to a mixture of 2 2 2 trifluoro N 4 4 fluorobenzyl piperidin 4 yl methyl N 1R 2S 2 phenylcyclopropyl acetamide 25.0 mg 0.0575 mmol and methyl 6 fluoropyridine 2 carboxylate Aldirch cat 697842 0.018 g 0.12 mmol in dimethyl sulfoxide 0.3 mL . The resulting mixture was stirred at 140 C. for 1.5 h then cooled to room temperature and NaOH 15 wt in water 0.5 mL was added. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h then purified by prep HPLC pH 2 acetonitrile water TFA to give the desired product as the TFA salt. LC MS calculated for CHFNO M H m z 460.2. found 460.2.

This compound was prepared using similar procedures as described for Example 20 with methyl 5 fluoropyridine 2 carboxylate Combi Blocks cat PY 1211 replacing methyl 6 fluoropyridine 2 carboxylate. The mixture was purified by prep HPLC pH 2 acetonitrile water TFA to give the desired product as the TFA salt. LC MS calculated for CHFNO M H m z 460.2. found 460.2.

To a mixture of 2 2 2 trifluoro N 4 4 fluorobenzyl piperidin 4 yl methyl N 1R 2S 2 phenylcyclopropyl acetamide Example 20 Step 6 25 mg 0.058 mmol palladium acetate 0.6 mg 0.003 mmol R 2 2 Bis diphenylphosphino 1 1 binaphthyl 35 mg 0.056 mmol and cesium carbonate 56 mg 0.17 mmol in 1 4 dioxane 0.29 mL 3.8 mmol was added methyl 1 4 bromophenyl cyclopropanecarboxylate Combi Blocks cat HC 3048 22 mg 0.086 mmol . The resulting mixture was purged with nitrogen then stirred at 130 C. for overnight. The mixture was cooled to room temperature diluted with acetonitrile and then filtered. The filtrate was purified by prep HPLC pH 2 acetonitrile water TFA to give the desired intermediate. The intermediate was dissolved in MeOH THF 0.2 0.2 mL and then NaOH 15 wt in water 1.0 mL was added. The resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 6 h then purified by prep HPLC pH 2 acetonitrile water TFA to give the desired product as the TFA salt. LC MS calculated for CHFNO M H m z 499.3. found 499.2.

To a solution of 1 tert butyl 4 methyl piperidine 1 4 dicarboxylate AstaTech cat B56857 2.43 g 10.0 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 30 mL at 40 C. was added lithium diisopropylamide 2 M in THF 5.8 mL 12 mmol . The resulting mixture was stirred at 40 C. for 30 min then chloromethyl methyl ether 1.2 mL 16 mmol was added. The reaction mixture was stirred at 40 C. for 1 h then quenched with saturated NHCl aqueous solution and warmed to room temperature. The mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate washed with saturated NaHCOaqueous solution water and brine. The organic layer was dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The crude material was purified via flash chromatography on a silica gel column 0 to 20 EtOAc in hexanes to give the desired product 2.6 g 90 . LC MS calculated for CHNO M Boc 2H m z 188.1. found 188.1.

To a solution of 1 tert butyl 4 methyl 4 methoxymethyl piperidine 1 4 dicarboxylate 2.3 g 8.0 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 40 mL at 0 C. was added LiAlH 1 Min THF 10. mL 10. mmol slowly. The resulting mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 30 min then quenched with addition of water 0.1 mL NaOH 15 wt in water 0.1 mL and water 0.1 mL . The mixture was stirred for 10 min then filtered and washed with THF. The filtrate was concentrated and the residue was used in the next step without further purification. LC MS calculated for CHNO M tBu 2H m z 204.1. found 204.1.

Dimethyl sulfoxide 1.7 mL 24 mmol in methylene chloride 2 mL was added to a solution of oxalyl chloride 1.0 mL 12 mmol in methylene chloride 3 mL at 78 C. over 10 min. The resulting mixture was warmed to 60 C. over 25 min then a solution of tert butyl 4 hydroxymethyl 4 methoxymethyl piperidine 1 carboxylate 1.6 g 6.0 mmol in methylene chloride 5 mL was slowly added. The mixture was warmed to 45 C. over 30 min then triethylamine 6.7 mL 48 mmol was added. The mixture was warmed to 0 C. over 15 min. The reaction mixture was then poured into a cold 1 N HCl aqueous solution and extracted with diethyl ether. The combined extracts were dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified via flash chromatography on a silica gel column eluting with 0 to 20 EtOAc in hexanes to give the desired product 1.3 g 84 . LC MS calculated for CHNO M Boc 2H m z 158.1. found 158.1.

A mixture of tert butyl 4 formyl 4 methoxymethyl piperidine 1 carboxylate 1.3 g 5.0 mmol acetic acid 0.43 mL 7.5 mmol and 1R 2S 2 phenylcyclopropanamine 699 mg 5.25 mmol in 1 2 dichloroethane 20 mL was stirred at room temperature for 1 h then sodium triacetoxyborohydride 2.1 g 10. mmol was added. The resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h then diluted with methylene chloride washed with saturated NaHCOaqueous solution water and brine. The organic layer was dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified via flash chromatography on a silica gel column eluting with 0 to 8 methanol in DCM to give the desired product 1.7 g 91 . LC MS calculated for CHNO M H m z 375.3. found 375.2.

Trifluoroacetic anhydride 0.96 mL 6.8 mmol was added to a solution of tert butyl 4 methoxymethyl 4 1R 2S 2 phenylcyclopropyl aminomethyl piperidine 1 carboxylate 1.7 g 4.5 mmol and N N diisopropylethylamine 1.6 mL 9.1 mmol in methylene chloride 25 mL at 0 C. The resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h then diluted with methylene chloride washed with sat. NaHCOaqueous solution water and brine. The organic layer was dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified via flash chromatography on a silica gel column eluting with 0 to 20 EtOAc in hexanes to give the desired product 1.8 g 84 . LC MS calculated for CHFNO M Boc 2H m z 371.2. found 371.1.

4.0 M Hydrogen chloride in dioxane 7 mL 28 mmol was added to a solution of tert butyl 4 methoxymethyl 4 1R 2S 2 phenylcyclopropyl trifluoroacetypamino methyl piperidine 1 carboxylate 1.8 g 3.8 mmol in methylene chloride 4 mL . The resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 30 min then concentrated. The residue was used in the next step without further purification. LC MS calculated for CHFNO M H m z 371.2. found 371.2.

To a solution of 2 2 2 trifluoro N 4 methoxymethyl piperidin 4 yl methyl N 1R 2S 2 phenylcyclopropyl acetamide 90. mg 0.24 mmol and methyl 4 fluoropyridine 2 carboxylate 0.075 g 0.48 mmol in dimethyl sulfoxide 0.5 mL was added N N diisopropylethylamine 0.17 mL 0.97 mmol . The resulting mixture was stirred at 140 C. for 1.5 h then cooled to room temperature and NaOH 15 wt in water 0.5 mL was added. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 5 h then purified by prep HPLC pH 2 acetonitrile water TFA to give the desired product as the TFA salt. LC MS calculated for CHNO M H m z 396.2. found 396.2.

This compound was prepared using procedures analogous to those described for Example 23 with methyl 6 fluoropyridine 2 carboxylate replacing methyl 4 fluoropyridine 2 carboxylate. The reaction mixture was purified by prep HPLC pH 2 acetonitrile water TFA to give the desired product as the TFA salt. LC MS calculated for CHNO M H m z 396.2. found 396.2.

A mixture of tert butyl 4 formyl 4 methylpiperidine 1 carboxylate Synnovator cat PBN2011767 2.50 g 11.0 mmol acetic acid 0.94 mL 16 mmol and 1R 2S 2 phenylcyclopropanamine 1.54 g 11.5 mmol in 1 2 dichloroethane 40 mL was stirred at room temperature for 1 h then sodium triacetoxyborohydride 4.7 g 22 mmol was added. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h then diluted with methylene chloride washed with saturated NaHCO3 water and brine. The organic layer was dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified via flash chromatography on a silica gel column eluting with 0 to 8 MeOH in DCM to give the desired product 3.4 g 90 . LC MS calculated for CHNO M H m z 345.3. found 345.2.

Trifluoroacetic anhydride 0.96 mL 6.8 mmol was added to a solution of tert butyl 4 methyl 4 1R 2S 2 phenylcyclopropyl aminomethyl piperidine 1 carboxylate 1.6 g 4.5 mmol and N N diisopropylethylamine 1.6 mL 9.1 mmol in methylene chloride 25 mL at 0 C. The resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h then diluted with methylene chloride washed with saturated NaHCO water and brine. The organic layer was dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified via flash chromatography on a silica gel column eluting with 0 to 20 EtOAc in hexanes to give the desired product 1.8 g 90 . LC MS calculated for CHFNO M Bu 2H m z 385.2. found 385.2.

To a solution of tert butyl 4 methyl 4 1R 2S 2 phenylcyclopropyl trifluoroacetyl amino methylpiperidine 1 carboxylate 1.5 g 3.4 mmol in methylene chloride 3 mL was added hydrogen chloride 4 M in 1 4 dioxane 6 mL 24 mmol . The resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h then concentrated. The residue was used in the next step without further purification. LC MS calculated for CHFNO M H m z 341.2. found 341.2.

N N Diisopropylethylamine 61 L 0.35 mmol was added to a solution of 2 2 2 trifluoro N 4 methylpiperidin 4 yl methyl N 1R 2S 2 phenylcyclopropyl acetamide 30. mg 0.088 mmol and methyl 5 fluoropyridine 2 carboxylate 27 mg 0.18 mmol in N methylpyrrolidinone 0.5 mL . The resulting mixture was stirred at 130 C. for overnight then cooled to room temperature and concentrated. The residue was dissolved in THF 1.0 mL then 1 N NaOH 1.0 mL was added. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 5 h then purified by prep HPLC pH 2 acetonitrile water TFA to give the desired product as the TFA salt. LC MS calculated for CHNO M H m z 366.2. found 366.2. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO 8.35 d J 2.9 Hz 1H 7.88 d J 8.9 Hz 1H 7.41 dd J 9.0 2.9 Hz 1H 7.35 7.26 m 2H 7.26 7.12 m 3H 3.70 3.53 m 2H 3.36 3.21 m 2H 3.18 3.08 m 2H 3.06 2.93 m 1H 2.57 2.50 m 1H 1.68 1.57 m 2H 1.57 1.44 m 3H 1.34 1.24 m 1H 1.11 s 3H .

N N Diisopropylethylamine 0.15 mL 0.86 mmol was added to a mixture of 2 2 2 trifluoro N 4 methylpiperidin 4 yl methyl N 1R 2S 2 phenylcyclopropyl acetamide Example 25 Step 3 74 mg 0.22 mmol and methyl 6 fluoropyridine 2 carboxylate 67 mg 0.43 mmol in dimethyl sulfoxide 0.5 mL . The resulting mixture was stirred at 140 C. for 1.5 h then cooled to room temperature and NaOH 15 wt in water 0.5 mL was added. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 5 h then purified by prep HPLC pH 2 acetonitrile water TFA to give the desired product as the TFA salt. LC MS calculated for CHNO M H m z 366.2. found 366.2. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO 8.58 br 2H 7.65 dd J 8.6 7.3 Hz 1H 7.35 7.24 m 3H 7.25 7.14 m 3H 7.07 d J 8.5 Hz 1H 4.00 3.81 m 2H 3.43 3.29 m 2H 3.16 3.07 m 2H 3.07 2.97 m 1H 2.56 2.49 m 1H 1.63 1.49 m 3H 1.48 1.37 m 2H 1.35 1.22 m 1H 1.11 s 3H .

This compound was prepared using procedures analogous to those described for Example 26. The mixture was purified by prep HPLC pH 2 acetonitrile water TFA to give the desired product as the TFA salt. LC MS calculated for CHNO M H m z 366.2. found 366.2.

To a solution of 5 4 methyl 4 1R 2S 2 phenylcyclopropyl aminomethyl piperidin 1 yl pyridine 2 carboxylic acid Example 25 9.2 mg 0.025 mmol and benzotriazol 1 yloxy tripyrrolidinophosphonium hexafluorophosphate 21.0 mg 0.0403 mmol in N N dimethylformamide 0.6 mL was added dimethylamine 2 M in THF 0.2 mL 0.5 mmol followed by triethylamine 24. L 0.17 mmol . The resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h then purified by prep HPLC pH 2 acetonitrile water TFA to give the desired product as the TFA salt. LC MS calculated for CHNO M H m z 393.3. found 393.3. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO 8.60 br 2H 8.26 d J 2.8 Hz 1H 7.49 d J 8.8 Hz 1H 7.40 dd J 8.8 2.9 Hz 1H 7.35 7.26 m 2H 7.26 7.15 m 3H 3.57 3.47 m 2H 3.25 3.16 m 2H 3.15 3.09 m 2H 3.08 2.91 m 7H 2.54 2.50 m 1H 1.68 1.58 m 2H 1.57 1.45 m 3H 1.34 1.25 m 1H 1.10 s 3H .

This compound was prepared using procedures analogous to those described for Example 28. The reaction mixture was purified by prep HPLC pH 2 acetonitrile water TFA to give the desired product as the TFA salt. LC MS calculated for CHNO M H m z 379.2. found 379.2.

To the mixture of 2 chloropyrimidin 4 amine 130 mg 1.00 mmol and piperidin 4 one hydrochloride hydrate 169 mg 1.10 mmol in isopropyl alcohol 5 mL was added N N diisopropylethylamine 435 L 2.50 mmol . The resulting suspension was heated to 100 C. and stirred for overnight. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature then diluted with EtOAc and washed with water and brine. The organic layer was dried over NaSOthen concentrated to give the desired product as a yellow solid which was used in the next step without further purification. LC MS calculated for CHNO M H m z 193.1. found 193.2.

To the solution of 1R 2S 2 phenylcyclopropanamine 24. mg 0.18 mmol and 1 4 aminopyrimidin 2 yl piperidin 4 one 34 mg 0.18 mmol in methylene chloride 1 mL was added acetic acid 30. L 0.53 mmol . The resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for overnight then sodium triacetoxyborohydride 75 mg 0.35 mmol was added. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h then diluted with DCM and washed with saturated NaHCOaqueous solution water and brine. The organic layer was dried over NaSOthen concentrated. The residue was dissolved in acetonitrile then purified by prep HPLC pH 10 acetonitrile water NHOH to give the desire product as a white solid. LC MS calculated for CHN M H m z 310.2. found 310.1.

This compound was prepared using procedures analogous to those described for Example 30 with 1S 2R 2 phenylcyclopropanamine prepared using procedures as described in 2011 21 4429 replacing 1R 2S 2 phenylcyclopropanamine. The reaction mixture was purified by prep HPLC pH 10 acetonitrile water NHOH to give the desired product as a white solid. LC MS calculated for CHN M H m z 310.2. found 310.1.

LANCE LSD1 KDM1A demethylase assay 10 L of 1 nM LSD 1 enzyme ENZO BML SE544 0050 in the assay buffer 50 mM Tris pH 7.5 0.01 Tween 20 25 mM NaCl 5 mM DTT were preincubated for 1 hour at 25 C. with 0.8 L compound DMSO dotted in black 384 well polystyrene plates. Reactions were started by addition of 10 L of assay buffer containing 0.4 M Biotin labeled Histone H3 peptide substrate ART K Me1 QTARKSTGGKAPRKQLA GGK Biotin SEQ ID NO 1 AnaSpec 64355 and incubated for 1 hour at 25 C. Reactions were stopped by addition of 10 L 1 LANCE Detection Buffer PerkinElmer CR97 100 supplemented with 1.5 nM Eu anti unmodified H3K4 Antibody PerkinElmer TRF0404 and 225 nM LANCE Ultra Streptavidin PerkinElmer TRF102 along with 0.9 mM Tranylcypromine HCl Millipore 616431 . After stopping the reactions plates were incubated for 30 minutes and read on a PHERAstar FS plate reader BMG Labtech . Compounds having an ICof 1 M or less were considered active. ICdata for the example compounds is provided in Table 1 refers to IC 100 nM refers to IC 100 nM and 500 nM .

Various modifications of the invention in addition to those described herein will be apparent to those skilled in the art from the foregoing description. Such modifications are also intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims. Each reference including all patent patent applications and publications cited in the present application is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

