---

title: Trainable transceiver and mobile communications device systems and methods
abstract: A trainable transceiver for installation in a vehicle and for controlling a remote device includes a transceiver circuit configured, based on training information, to control the remote device, a communications device configured to communicate with a mobile communications device, an output device, and a control circuit coupled to the transceiver circuit, coupled to the communications device, and coupled to the output device. The control circuit is configured to receive notification information from the mobile communications device via the communications device, and wherein the control circuit is configured to generate an output using the output device based on the notification information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09620005&OS=09620005&RS=09620005
owner: GENTEX CORPORATION
number: 09620005
owner_city: Zeeland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150417
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 981 504 filed Apr. 18 2014 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates generally to the field of trainable transceivers for inclusion within a vehicle. A trainable transceiver generally sends and or receives wireless signals using a transmitter receiver and or transceiver. The wireless signals may be used to control other devices. For example a trainable transceiver may send a wireless control signal to operate a garage door opener. A trainable transceiver may be trained to operate with a particular device. Training may include providing the trainable transceiver with control information for use in generating a control signal. A trainable transceiver may be incorporated in a vehicle integrally or contained within the vehicle and used to control devices outside the vehicle. It is challenging an difficult to develop trainable transceivers which are easy to train to operate a variety of devices. It is further challenging and difficult to develop a trainable transceiver which provides additional useful functions to a user. Additionally it is challenging and difficult to develop a trainable transceiver which may control other devices for purposes other than providing activation signals. Furthermore it is challenging and difficult to develop a trainable transceiver which controls other devices based on input or information received from other devices and or using other hardware.

One embodiment relates to a trainable transceiver for installation in a vehicle and for controlling a remote device includes a transceiver circuit configured based on training information to control the remote device a communications device configured to communicate with a mobile communications device an output device and a control circuit coupled to the transceiver circuit coupled to the communications device and coupled to the output device. The control circuit is configured to receive notification information from the mobile communications device via the communications device and wherein the control circuit is configured to generate an output using the output device based on the notification information.

Another embodiment relates to a trainable transceiver for installation in a vehicle and for controlling a remote device including a transceiver circuit configured based on training information to communicate with the remote device a communications device configured to communicate with a mobile communications device an input mechanism and a control circuit coupled to the transceiver circuit coupled to the communications device and coupled to the input mechanism. The control circuit is configured to send a transmission to the mobile communications device via the communications device and in response to an input received via the input mechanism and wherein the transmission controls the mobile communications device and causes the mobile communications device to perform an action.

Another embodiment relates to a trainable transceiver for installation in a vehicle and for controlling a remote device including a transceiver circuit configured based on training information to communicate with the remote device a radio frequency transceiver configured to communicate with a mobile communications device and a control circuit coupled to the transceiver circuit and coupled to the radio frequency transceiver. The control circuit is configured to configured to prevent communication with the remote device unless a key has been received via the radio frequency transceiver from the mobile communications device.

The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. In addition to the illustrative aspects embodiments and features described above further aspects embodiments and features will become apparent by reference to the drawings and the following detailed description.

Generally a trainable transceiver controls one or more home electronic devices and or remote devices. For example the trainable transceiver may be a Homelink trainable transceiver. Home electronic devices may include devices such as a garage door opener gate opener lights security system and or other device which is configured to receive activation signals and or control signals. A home electronic device need not be associated with a residence but can also include devices associated with businesses government buildings or locations or other fixed locations. Remote devices may include mobile computing devices such as mobile phones smartphones tablets laptops computing hardware in other vehicles and or other devices configured to receive activation signals and or control signals.

Activation signals may be wired or preferably wireless signals transmitted to a home electronic device and or remote device. Activation signals may include control signals control data encryption information e.g. a rolling code rolling code seed look a head codes secret key fixed code or other information related to an encryption technique or other information transmitted to a home electronic device and or remote device. Activation signals may have parameters such as frequency or frequencies of transmission e.g. channels encryption information e.g. a rolling code fixed code or other information related to an encryption technique identification information e.g. a serial number make model or other information identifying a home electronic device remote device and or other device and or other information related to formatting an activation signal to control a particular home electronic device and or remote device.

In some embodiments the trainable transceiver receives information from one or more home electronic devices and or remote devices. The trainable transceiver may receive information using the same transceiver user to send activation signals and or other information to home electronic devices and or remote devices. The same wireless transmission scheme protocol and or hardware may be used from transmitting and receiving. The trainable transceiver may have two way communication with home electronic devices and or remote devices. In other embodiments the trainable transceiver includes additional hardware for two way communication with devices and or receiving information from devices. In some embodiments the trainable transceiver has only one way communication with a home electronic device and or remote device e.g. sending activation signals to the device . The trainable transceiver may receive information about the home electronic device and or remote device using additional hardware. The information about the home electronic device and or remote device may be received from an intermediary device such as an additional remote device and or mobile communication device.

A trainable transceiver may also receive information from and or transmit information to other devices configured to communicate with the trainable transceiver. For example a trainable transceiver may receive information for cameras e.g. imaging information may be received and or other sensors. The cameras and or other sensors may communicate with a trainable transceiver wirelessly e.g. using one or more transceivers or through a wired connection. In some embodiments a trainable transceiver may communicate with mobile communications devices e.g. cell phones tablets smartphones or other communication devices . In some embodiments mobile communications devices may include other mobile electronics devices such as laptops personal computers and or other devices. In still further embodiments the trainable transceiver is configured to communicate with networking equipment such as routers servers switches and or other hardware for enabling network communication. The network may be the internet and or a cloud architecture.

In some embodiments the trainable transceiver transmits and or receives information e.g. activation signals control signals control data status information or other information using a radio frequency signal. For example the transceiver may transmit and or receive radio frequency signals in the ultra high frequency range typically between 260 and 960 megahertz MHz although other frequencies may be used. In other embodiments a trainable transceiver may include additional hardware for transmitting and or receiving signals e.g. activation signals and or signals for transmitting and or receiving other information . For example a trainable transceiver may include a light sensor and or light emitting element a microphone and or speaker a cellular transceiver an infrared transceiver or other communication device.

A trainable transceiver may be configured e.g. trained to send activation signals and or other information to a particular device and or receive control signals and or information from a particular device. The trainable transceiver may be trained by a user to work with particular remote devices and or home electronic devices e.g. a garage door opener . For example a user may manually input control information into the trainable transceiver to configure the trainable transceiver to control the device. A trainable transceiver may also learn control information from an original transmitter. A trainable transceiver may receive a signal containing control information from an original transmitter e.g. a remote sold with a home electronic device and determine control information from the received signal. Training information e.g. activation signal frequency device identification information encryption information modulation scheme used by the device or other information related to controlling a device via an activation signal may also be received by a trainable transceiver from a remote device mobile communications device or other source.

A trainable transceiver may be mounted or otherwise attached to a vehicle in a variety of locations. For example a trainable transceiver may be integrated into a dashboard or center stack e.g. infotainment center of a vehicle. The trainable transceiver may be integrated into the vehicle by a vehicle manufacturer. A trainable transceiver may be located in other peripheral locations. For example a trainable transceiver may be removably mounted to a visor. The trainable transceiver may include mounting hardware such as a clip. A trainable transceiver may be mounted to other surfaces of a vehicle e.g. dashboard windshield door panel or other vehicle component . For example a trainable transceiver may be secured with adhesive. In some embodiments a trainable transceiver is integrated in a rear view mirror of the vehicle. A vehicle manufacturer may include a trainable transceiver in the rear view mirror.

In other embodiments a vehicle may be retrofit to include a trainable transceiver. This may include attaching a trainable transceiver to a vehicle surface using a clip adhesive or other mounting hardware as described above. Alternatively it may include replacing a vehicle component with one that includes an integrated trainable transceiver and or installing a vehicle component which includes an integrated trainable transceiver. For example an aftermarket rear view mirror vehicle camera system e.g. one or more cameras and one or more display screens and or infotainment center may include an integrated trainable transceiver. In further embodiments one or more components of a trainable transceiver may be distributed within the vehicle.

Referring now to a trainable transceiver may communicate with a home electronics device . In some embodiments the trainable transceiver and home electronics device communicate using two way communication. For example the trainable transceiver may transmit activation signals control signals requests for information data and or other information to the home electronics device . The home electronics device may transmit status information responses to requests for information data requests for information and or other information to the trainable transceiver . The same and or similar two way communication may be made between the trainable transceiver and a remote device. In other embodiments there is only one way communication between the trainable transceiver and the home electronics device and or remote device. For example the trainable transceiver transmits activation signals control signals data and or other information to the home electronics device and or remote device and the trainable transceiver does not receive transmissions from the home electronics device or remote device.

In some embodiments an original transmitter may communicate with the home electronics device and or remote device. In one embodiment the original transmitter communicates with the home electronics device and or remote device using one way communication. For example the original transmitter may transmit an activation signal to the home electronics device and or remote device. In some embodiments the original transmitter may be the source of an activation signal activation signal parameters and or other information related to controlling the home electronics device and or remote device. This information may be received by a mobile communications device as discussed in greater detail herein. In alternative embodiments the original transmitter is capable of two way communication. In some embodiments the trainable transceiver may be configured to receive an activation signal and or other information from the original transmitter .

In one embodiment the trainable transceiver is capable of two way communication with the mobile communications device . For example a smartphone may be paired with the trainable transceiver such that the trainable transceiver and smartphone communicate using wireless transceivers e.g. using radio frequency transceivers and or a protocol such as Bluetooth communication . The trainable transceiver and mobile communications device may exchange information such as status notifications activation signals training information activation signal parameters device identification information e.g. the serial number make and or model of the home electronics device and or other information.

In some embodiments the communication described herein with respect to is wireless communication. In other embodiments communication may be wired communication. For example communication between two or more devices may use a wireless network wireless transceiver and or wireless communication protocol e.g. WiFi Zigbee Bluetooth cellular etc. a wired interface and or protocol e.g. Ethernet universal serial bus USB Firewire etc. or other communications connection e.g. infrared optical ultrasound etc. .

Referring now to an exemplary embodiment of the trainable transceiver is illustrated along with an exemplary embodiment of the mobile communications device . In one embodiment the trainable transceiver includes an operator input device . The operator input device may be one or more buttons. For example the operator input device may be three hard key buttons. In some embodiments the operator input device may include input devices such as touchscreen displays switches microphones knobs touch sensor e.g. projected capacitance sensor resistance based touch sensor resistive touch sensor or other touch sensor proximity sensors e.g. projected capacitance infrared ultrasound infrared or other proximity sensor or other hardware configured to generate an input from a user action. In additional embodiments the operator input device may display data to a user or other provide outputs. For example the operator input device may include a display screen e.g. a display as part of a touchscreen liquid crystal display e ink display plasma display light emitting diode LED display or other display device speaker haptic feedback device e.g. vibration motor LEDs or other hardware component for providing an output. In some embodiments the operator input device is connected to a control circuit . The control circuit may send information and or control signals or instructions to the operator input device . For example the control circuit may send output instructions to the operator input device causing the display of an image. The control circuit may also receive input signals instructions and or data from the operator input device .

The control circuit may include various types of control circuitry digital and or analog and may include a microprocessor microcontroller application specific integrated circuit ASIC graphics processing unit GPU or other circuitry configured to perform various input output control analysis and other functions to be described herein. In other embodiments the control circuit may be a SoC individually or with additional hardware components described herein. The control circuit may further include in some embodiments memory e.g. random access memory read only memory flash memory hard disk storage flash memory storage solid state drive memory etc. . In further embodiments the control circuit may function as a controller for one or more hardware components included in the trainable transceiver . For example the control circuit may function as a controller for a touchscreen display or other operator input device a controller for a transceiver transmitter receiver or other communication device e.g. implement a Bluetooth communications protocol .

In some embodiments the control circuit receives inputs from operator input devices and processes the inputs. The inputs may be converted into control signals data inputs to be sent to the base station etc. The control circuit may control a transceiver circuit and use the transceiver circuit to communicate e.g. receive signals and or transmit signals with one or more of original transmitters home electronic devices mobile communications devices and or remote devices. The control circuit may also be used to in the training process.

The control circuit is coupled to memory . The memory may be used to facilitate the functions of the trainable transceiver described herein. Memory may be volatile and or non volatile memory. For example memory may be random access memory read only memory flash memory hard disk storage flash memory storage solid state drive memory etc. In some embodiments the control circuit reads and writes to memory . Memory may include computer code modules data computer instructions or other information which may be executed by the control circuit or otherwise facilitate the functions of the trainable transceiver described herein. For example memory may include encryption codes pairing information identification information a device registry etc.

The transceiver circuit allows the trainable transceiver to transmit and or receive wireless communication signals. The wireless communication signals may be transmitted to or received from a variety of wireless devices e.g. the original transmitter home electronic device mobile communications device and or remote device . The transceiver circuit may be controlled by the control circuit . For example the control circuit may turn on or off the transceiver circuit the control circuit may send data using the transceiver circuit format information an activation signal control signal and or other signal or data for transmission via the transceiver circuit or otherwise control the transceiver circuit . Inputs from the transceiver circuit may also be received by the control circuit . In some embodiments the transceiver circuit may include additional hardware such as processors memory integrated circuits antennas etc. The transceiver circuit may process information prior to transmission or upon reception and prior to passing the information to the control circuit . In some embodiments the transceiver circuit may be coupled directly to memory e.g. to store encryption data retrieve encryption data etc. . In further embodiments the transceiver circuit may include one or more transceivers transmitters receivers etc. For example the transceiver circuit may include an optical transceiver near field communication NFC transceiver etc. In some embodiments the transceiver circuit may be implemented as a SoC.

In further embodiments the control circuit is coupled to additional transceiver circuits receivers and or transmitters. In one embodiment the transceiver circuit is used for communicating with transmitting to and or receiving from home electronic devices and or remote devices. In some embodiments the transceiver circuit may be or include a cellular transceiver. The trainable transceiver may use the transceiver circuit and or an additional transceiver e.g. a cellular transceiver to access the internet other networks and or network hardware. In other embodiments the trainable transceiver may access the internet other networks and or network hardware through an intermediate device in communication with the trainable transceiver such as the mobile communications device .

Additional transceivers may be used to communicate with other devices e.g. mobile communications devices cameras network devices or other wireless devices . The transceiver circuit and other transceivers may operate using different frequency transmission spectrums protocols and or otherwise transmit and or receive signals using different techniques. For example the transceiver circuit may be configured to send activation signals to the home electronic device e.g. a garage door opener using an encrypted radio wave transmission and an additional transceiver may communicate with a remote communications device e.g. a smartphone using a Bluetooth transceiver and Bluetooth communications protocol.

The trainable transceiver may communicate with original transmitters home electronic devices remote devices mobile communications devices network devices and or other devices as described above using the transceiver circuit and or other additional transceiver circuits or hardware. The devices with which the trainable transceiver communicates may include transceivers transmitters and or receivers. The communication may be one way or two way communication.

With continued reference to the trainable transceiver may include a power source . The power source provides electrical power to the components of the trainable transceiver . In one embodiment the power source is self contained. For example the power source may be a battery solar cell or other power source not requiring a wired connection to another source of electrical power. In other embodiments the power source may be a wired connection to another power source. For example the power source may be a wired connection to a vehicle power supply system. The power source may be integrated into the vehicle electrical system. This may allow the trainable transceiver to draw electrical power from a vehicle battery be turned on or off by a vehicle electrical system e.g. turned off when the vehicle is turned off turned on when a vehicle door is opened etc. draw power provided by a vehicle alternator or otherwise be integrated with the electrical power systems s of the vehicle.

In some embodiments the trainable transceiver includes a near field communication NFC transceiver . The NFC transceiver may be used to communicate with the mobile communications device and or other device. For example the NFC transceiver may be used to pair the mobile communications device such as a smartphone and the trainable transceiver . The pairing process may be conducted using NFC. In some embodiments additional information may be communicated between the trainable transceiver and the mobile communications device and or other device using NFC.

In some embodiments the trainable transceiver includes a Bluetooth Low Energy BLE transceiver . The BLE transceiver may be a radio frequency transceiver configured to communicate using the Bluetooth Low Energy protocol. In other embodiments the BLE transceiver may be a radio frequency transceiver configured to communicate using a different protocol such as a Bluetooth protocol e.g. v2.0 v3.0 v4.0 etc. . The BLE transceiver may facilitate pairing of the trainable transceiver and the mobile communications device . For example the trainable transceiver and mobile communications device may establish a communication connection using the BLE transceiver and exchange information relevant to pairing the two devices for further communication using a BLE protocol. Upon pairing e.g. using the BLE transceiver NFC transceiver and or other techniques the trainable transceiver may communicate with the mobile communications device using the BLE transceiver .

In further embodiments the trainable transceiver may include a speaker and or microphone. The speaker may be used to provide audio output to a user. The microphone may be used receive user inputs e.g. voice commands . In further embodiments the microphone and or speaker may be used to receive and or send information using sound waves.

The mobile communications device which may communicate with the trainable transceiver in some embodiments of the trainable transceiver may be a device purchased by a consumer separately from the trainable transceiver . For example the mobile communications device may be a cell phone purchased from a third party retailer. In some embodiments the mobile communications device e.g. smartphone tablet cellular telephone laptop key fob dongle etc. includes a control circuit . The control circuit may contain circuitry hardware and or software for facilitating and or performing the functions described herein. The control circuit may handle inputs process inputs run programs handle instructions route information control memory control a processor process data generate outputs communicate with other devices or hardware and or otherwise perform general or specific computing tasks. In some embodiments the control circuit includes a processor. In some embodiments the control circuit includes memory. The control circuit may handle computation tasks associated with placing phone calls running an operating system running applications displaying information general computing and or tasks associated with providing smartphone tablet laptop and or other device functions. In some embodiments the control circuit may include and or be one more systems on a chip SoCs application specific integrated circuits ASICs one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGAs a digital signal processor DSP a group of processing components and or other suitable electronic processing components.

The mobile communications device may include memory . Memory is one or more devices e.g. RAM ROM Flash Memory hard disk storage etc. for storing data and or computer code for facilitating the various processes described herein. Memory may be or include non transient volatile memory or non volatile memory. Memory may include database components object code components script components or any other type of information structure for supporting various activities and information structures described herein. Memory may be communicably connected to the control circuit and provide computer code and or instructions to the control circuit for executing the processes described herein. For example memory may contain computer code instructions and or other information of implementing an operating system one or more applications and or other programs.

In some embodiments the mobile communications device includes one or more sensors. The sensors may be controlled by the control circuit provide inputs to the control circuit and or otherwise interact with the control circuit . In some embodiments sensors include one or more accelerometers cameras light sensors microphones and or other sensors or input devices. Sensors may further include a global positioning system GPS receiver . The GPS receiver may receive position information from another source e.g. a satellite . The position may be based on GPS coordinates.

The mobile communications device may include output devices. In some embodiments the output devices are controlled by the control circuit provide input to the control circuit communicate output from the control circuit to a user or other device and or are otherwise in communication with the control circuit . Output devices may include a display . The display allows for visual communication with a user. The display may be configured to output a visual representation based on computer instructions control signals computer code frame buffers and or other electronic signals or information. In some embodiments the display includes a graphics processing unit GPU controller and or other hardware to facilitate the handling of and display of graphics information. In other embodiments the display does not include hardware for processing images or image data. The display may be any hardware configured to display images using the emission of light or another technique. For example the display may be a liquid crystal display e ink display plasma display light emitting diode LED display or other display device. In some embodiments the display may be part of or otherwise integrated with a user input device such as a touchscreen display e.g. projected capacitance touchscreen resistance based touchscreen and or touchscreen based on other touch sensing technology . The display may be a touchscreen display. Output devices may also include a speaker for providing audio outputs. Output devices may further include a flash . The flash may be associated with the camera and may be an LED or other light source.

The mobile communications device may include a transceiver circuit . The transceiver circuit may be a radio frequency transceiver cellular transceiver and or other transceiver. The transceiver circuit may provide communication between the mobile communications device and a cell tower voice network data network communication network other device and or other hardware components used in communication. The mobile communications device may access the internet and or other networks using the transceiver circuit . In some embodiments the trainable transceiver and mobile communications device communicate using the transceiver circuit of the mobile communications device and the transceiver circuit of the trainable transceiver . Other intermediary devices and or hardware e.g. network components may facilitate communication between the mobile communications device and the trainable transceiver . In some embodiments the mobile communications device may have access to activation signal parameters training information e.g. device identification information and or other information related to the home electronics device and or remote device. The mobile communications device may have access to this information through a variety of sources and techniques as discussed in more detail herein. The mobile communications device may transmit activation signal parameters training information e.g. device identification information and or other information related to the home electronics device and or remote device using the transceiver circuit of the mobile communications device . This information may be received by the trainable transceiver using the transceiver circuit of the trainable transceiver .

In some embodiments the mobile communications device includes an NFC transceiver . The NFC transceiver may allow the mobile communications device to wirelessly communicate with the trainable transceiver using NFC. As discussed above the NFC transceiver of the mobile communications device and the NFC transceiver of the trainable transceiver may allow for wireless communication between the trainable transceiver and the mobile communications device . In some embodiments the wireless communication via the NFC transceivers allows for the trainable transceiver and mobile communications device to be paired and therefore allow for further communication using the NFC transceivers and or other transceivers described herein. In some embodiments the mobile communications device may have access to activation signal parameters training information e.g. device identification information and or other information related to the home electronics device and or remote device. The mobile communications device may have access to this information through a variety of sources and techniques as discussed in more detail herein. The mobile communications device may transmit activation signal parameters training information e.g. device identification information and or other information related to the home electronics device and or remote device using the NFC transceiver of the mobile communications device . This information may be received by the trainable transceiver using the NFC transceiver of the trainable transceiver .

In some embodiments the mobile communications device includes a BLE transceiver . The BLE transceiver may allow the mobile communications device to wirelessly communicate with the trainable transceiver using a Bluetooth protocol such as BLE. As discussed above the BLE transceiver of the mobile communications device and the BLE transceiver of the trainable transceiver may allow for wireless communication between the trainable transceiver and the mobile communications device . In some embodiments the wireless communication via the BLE transceivers allows for the trainable transceiver and mobile communications device to be paired and therefore allow for further communication using the BLE transceivers and or other transceivers described herein. Alternatively the trainable transceiver and the mobile communications device may be paired by another technique e.g. using the NFC transceivers which allows for further communication using BLE transceivers. In some embodiments the mobile communications device may have access to activation signal parameters training information e.g. device identification information and or other information related to the home electronics device and or remote device. The mobile communications device may have access to this information through a variety of sources and techniques as discussed in more detail herein. The mobile communications device may transmit activation signal parameters training information e.g. device identification information and or other information related to the home electronics device and or remote device using the BLE transceiver of the mobile communications device . This information may be received by the trainable transceiver using the BLE transceiver of the trainable transceiver .

With continued reference to the trainable transceiver may include a light sensor e.g. photodetector in some embodiments. As described above the mobile communications device may include the light sensor and the display flash and or other light source. The light sensor of the trainable transceiver may be configured to receive information transmitted from a source such as the mobile communications device using light.

Referring now to the trainable transceiver may be coupled to integrated with and or otherwise be in communication with a rear view mirror of the vehicle. Advantageously this may allow the trainable transceiver to use hardware associated with the rear view mirror rather than duplicating the same hardware for use with the trainable transceiver . This may save cost simplify the manufacturing process and or otherwise improve the trainable transceiver system. The rear view mirror may be installed in a vehicle as part of an original vehicle manufacturing process as an additional piece of hardware as part of a retrofit instillation to replace an existing mirror or otherwise be added to a vehicle. The rear view mirror may be uninstalled in a vehicle e.g. packaged for sale for later installation in a vehicle .

In one embodiment the rear view mirror includes a control circuit . The control circuit may contain circuitry hardware and or software for facilitating and or performing the functions described herein. The control circuit may handle inputs process inputs run programs handle instructions route information control memory control a processor process data generate outputs communicate with other devices or hardware and or otherwise perform general or specific computing tasks. In some embodiments the control circuit includes a processor. The processor may be implemented as a general purpose processor an application specific integrated circuit ASIC one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGAs a digital signal processor DSP a group of processing components or other suitable electronic processing components.

In some embodiments the control circuit is coupled to memory . Memory is one or more devices e.g. RAM ROM Flash Memory hard disk storage etc. for storing data and or computer code for facilitating the various processes described herein. Memory may be or include non transient volatile memory or non volatile memory. Memory may include database components object code components script components or any other type of information structure for supporting various activities and information structures described herein. Memory may be communicably connected to the control circuit and provide computer code or instructions to the control circuit for executing the processes described herein.

In some embodiments the rear view mirror includes one or more front facing cameras and or one or more rear facing cameras . The front facing camera may be used alone or in conjunction with the control circuit of the rear view mirror to perform a variety of functions. For example the front facing camera may be used to provide driver aids such as automatically dimming headlights when oncoming cars are detected e.g. by the headlights of the oncoming car .

In one embodiment the rear view mirror includes a display . The display allows for visual communication with a user. The display may be configured to output a visual representation based on computer instructions control signals computer code frame buffers and or other electronic signals or information. In some embodiments the display includes a graphics processing unit GPU controller and or other hardware to facilitate the handling of and display of graphics information. In other embodiments the display does not include hardware for processing images or image data. The display may be any hardware configured to display images using the emission of light or another technique. For example the display may be a liquid crystal display e ink display plasma display light emitting diode LED display or other display device. In some embodiments the display may be part of or otherwise integrated with a user input device such as a touchscreen display e.g. projected capacitance touchscreen resistance based touchscreen and or touchscreen based on other touch sensing technology . The display be a touchscreen display. In some embodiments the display is controlled by the control circuit of the rear view mirror . The display may be used for functions such as displaying weather information backup camera video feeds warnings compass heading road information e.g. current speed limit navigation information vehicle information e.g. if a passenger is not wearing a seat belt or information accessible by the vehicle and or a vehicle connected device e.g. paired smartphone . The display may be located behind the glass of the mirror assembly itself. The display may be used to display images but when not in use function as part of the mirror allowing a user to see towards the rear of the vehicle.

In some embodiments the rear view mirror includes an operator input device . The operator input device may allow a user to provide inputs to the control circuit of the rear view mirror . The operator input device may include soft keys touch screens projected capacitance based buttons resistance based buttons etc. and or hard keys e.g. buttons switches knobs etc. microphones and or other hardware configured to accept user inputs. The operator input device may allow a user to control functions associated with the rear view mirror such as dimming turning on or off auto dimming placing an emergency call etc. The operator input device of the rear view mirror is coupled to the control circuit of the rear view mirror . The rear view mirror may process inputs received from the operator input device e.g. change the display dim the mirror play a sound using the speaker or otherwise take an action process the input and or generate an output .

In one embodiment the rear view mirror includes a power source . The power source may be a replaceable or rechargeable battery. In other embodiments the power source may be a connection to a vehicle electrical system. For example the components of the rear view mirror may draw electrical power from a controller area network CAN bus vehicle battery vehicle alternator and or other vehicle system to which the components of the rear view mirror are electrically connected.

In some embodiments the rear view mirror includes an integral transceiver such as a cellular transceiver Bluetooth transceiver etc. or a connection to a transceiver coupled to the vehicle in which the rear view mirror is or will be mounted. Using this transceiver and or additional hardware the rear view mirror may have or be capable of providing access to the internet and or communication to other devices and or hardware e.g. using radio frequency transmissions .

The rear view mirror may include one or more sensors. For example the rear view mirror may include light sensors temperature sensors accelerometers humidity sensors microphones and or other sensors. Sensors may be used to display information to an occupant of vehicle e.g. current weather conditions using the display of the rear view mirror and or other displays in the vehicle e.g. center stack display gauge cluster display heads up display HUD etc. . Sensors may also be used to accept user input and or measure parameters related to the vehicle. For example the microphone may be used to accept voice commands from an occupant of the vehicle. In some embodiments the control circuit of the rear view mirror may transmit communicate and or otherwise pass sensor data signals outputs and or other information to other hardware e.g. the trainable transceiver .

With continued reference to the trainable transceiver includes a rear view mirror interface in some embodiments. The rear view mirror interface may allow for communication between the trainable transceiver and the control circuit of the rear view mirror . In one embodiment rear view mirror interface includes physical connection such as ports connectors wiring and or other hardware used to create an electrical connection between the control circuit of the trainable transceiver and the control circuit of the rear view mirror . In alternative embodiments the control circuit of the trainable transceiver and the control circuit of the rear view mirror are directly connected e.g. wired such that outputs from one control circuit are received as inputs at the other control circuit and or vice versa . In further embodiments the rear view mirror interface may include and or be implemented by computer programming code instructions or other software stored in memory in the trainable transceiver and or rear view mirror . Advantageously the connection between the trainable transceiver and the rear view mirror may allow for components of the rear view mirror to serve two or more functions thus increasing the usefulness of these components reducing cost and or eliminating the need for duplicate components to provide additional functions to the trainable transceiver . For example the display of the rear view mirror may be used to communicate information relevant to the operation of the rear view mirror e.g. weather information if the mirror is set to automatically dim vehicle warnings etc. and information relevant to the trainable transceiver e.g. training steps pairing information whether an activation signal has been received status information regarding a home electronics device mobile communications device and or remote device and or other information related to the trainable transceiver .

The connection between the trainable transceiver and the rear view mirror hardware may allow the trainable transceiver to control the hardware included in the rear view mirror send control signals and or instructions to the control circuit of the rear view mirror receive images and or image data from the camera s and or included in the rear view mirror e.g. via the control circuit of the rear view mirror receive control signals and or instructions receive sensor information from sensors included in the rear view mirror e.g. via the control circuit of the rear view mirror and or otherwise interact with the rear view mirror and or components thereof.

The trainable transceiver may be configured to control communicate or otherwise operate in conjunction with the control circuit of the rear view mirror to facilitate and or perform the functions described herein. In one embodiment the trainable transceiver communicates with the control circuit of the rear view mirror through the rear view mirror interface . In other embodiments the trainable transceiver communicates with the control circuit of the rear view mirror directly e.g. the control circuit of the trainable transceiver communicates with the control circuit of the rear view mirror . The trainable transceiver may communicate and or control the control circuit of the rear view mirror using a variety of techniques. For example the trainable transceiver may communicate with the rear view mirror through outputs from the trainable transceivers received as inputs at the control circuit of the rear view mirror sending the rear view mirror a location in memory which contains information instructions data or other information which is read by the control circuit of the rear view mirror sending the control circuit of the rear view mirror data instructions or other information through a bus port or other connection or otherwise providing instructions data or information to the control circuit of the rear view mirror.

In some embodiments the control circuit of the rear view mirror communicates with the control circuit of the trainable transceiver using similar techniques. In other embodiments the communication is one way with the trainable transceiver sending instructions data or other information to the control circuit of the rear view mirror . The trainable transceiver may extract data instructions or other information from the control circuit of the rear view mirror by reading the memory of the rear view mirror and or requesting from the control circuit of the rear view mirror an address for a location in memory in which the relevant information can be read. Alternatively the control circuit of the rear view mirror may send information to the trainable transceiver but only when requested by the trainable transceiver .

In one embodiment the trainable transceiver is configured to provide output to a vehicle occupant using the display and or speaker of the rear view mirror . The trainable transceiver may control the output of the rear view mirror by sending control signals instructions information and or data to the rear view mirror or otherwise control the display and or speaker of the rear view mirror . In one embodiment the trainable transceiver controls the output of the rear view mirror using the rear view mirror interface . For example the rear view mirror interface may format instructions control signals and or information such that it can be received and or processed by the control circuit of the rear view mirror . In other embodiments the control circuit of the trainable transceiver may communicate directly with the control circuit of the rear view mirror . The control circuit of the rear view mirror may handle process output forward and or otherwise manipulate instructions control signals data and or other information from the trainable transceiver . In other embodiments the control circuit of the rear view mirror forwards routes or otherwise directs the instructions control signals outputs data and or other information to other components of the rear view mirror without additional processing or manipulation. For example the trainable transceiver may output a frame buffer to the control circuit of the rear view mirror which then routes the frame buffer to the display without further manipulation. This may include storing the frame buffer in memory included in the control circuit of the rear view mirror and sending an address corresponding to the frame buffer to the display . As described in greater detail with respect to later figures the display may be used by the trainable transceiver to communicate information to a vehicle occupant regarding the home electronics device remote device mobile communications device or other device controlled by and or in communication with the trainable transceiver .

Advantageously displaying information related to the trainable transceiver using the display of the rear view mirror may make a user more likely to view the information. Vehicle occupants particularly the driver are accustomed to looking at the rear view mirror frequently. A vehicle driver may be particularly likely to look at the rear view mirror while reversing out of a garage and or down a driveway. As such a vehicle driver is more likely to see information from the trainable transceiver related to the home electronics device e.g. a garage door opener if the information is displayed on the rear view mirror rather than in another location.

The trainable transceiver may be configured to receive inputs from the sensors of the rear view mirror and or control sensors of the rear view mirror . The trainable transceiver may access sensor data and or control sensor data through the rear view mirror interface and or the control circuit of the rear view mirror . In other embodiments sensor data may be accessed and or sensors controlled by the control circuit of the trainable transceiver and or the control circuit of the rear view mirror . The trainable transceiver may receive sensor data and process transmit format send data to other devices and or otherwise manipulate the sensor data. The trainable transceiver may also control sensors. For example the trainable transceiver may turn sensors on or off calibrate sensors and or otherwise manipulate sensors. In some embodiments the trainable transceiver receives commands instructions data and or other information through one or more sensors. For example the trainable transceiver may receive voice commands from a user through the microphone. Continuing the example data may be optically received using the light sensor. In some embodiments the trainable transceiver receives information e.g. information input through physical interaction with the rear view mirror through the accelerometer of the rear view mirror.

In some embodiments the trainable transceiver receives inputs from the operator input device of the rear view mirror e.g. via the control circuit of the rear view mirror and or the rear view mirror interface . The trainable transceiver may send a control signal instructions information or otherwise communicate with the control circuit of the rear view mirror to cause inputs to be communicated to the trainable transceiver . The trainable transceiver may use the operator input device of the rear view mirror to augment or replace the operator input device associated with the trainable transceiver .

In some embodiments the trainable transceiver draws electrical power through a connection with the power source included in the rear view mirror . As explained above the power source may provide power to the rear view mirror from the electrical system of the vehicle and or a battery. The trainable transceiver may draw power from the power source as well. For example the trainable transceiver may be connected to the power source through the rear view mirror interface . Alternatively components of the trainable transceiver may draw power from direct connections to the power source . In other embodiments the trainable transceiver draws power from the control circuit of the rear view mirror which in turn draws power from the power source .

In one embodiment the trainable transceiver may use a transceiver included in the rear view mirror and or coupled to the rear view mirror e.g. a transceiver mounted in the vehicle to send and or receive activation signals control signals images image data and or other information. For example the trainable transceiver may configure the transceiver and or control circuit of the rear view mirror such that the trainable transceiver has access to the internet other networks and or networking hardware. In some embodiments the trainable transceiver may use a transceiver associated with the rear view mirror to access other devices e.g. home electronic devices remote devices mobile communications devices networking devices etc. .

Referring now to the trainable transceiver is illustrated according to an exemplary embodiment including a connection to a vehicle electronics system . The connection to the vehicle electronics system may be made using a vehicle electronics system interface included in the trainable transceiver . In some embodiments the vehicle electronics system interface includes physical connection such as ports connectors wiring and or other hardware used to create an electrical connection between the control circuit of the trainable transceiver and the vehicle electronics system . In alternative embodiments the control circuit of the trainable transceiver and the vehicle electronics system are directly connected e.g. wired such that outputs from one control circuit are received as inputs at the other control circuit and or vice versa . In further embodiments the vehicle electronics system interface may include and or be implemented by computer programming code instructions or other software stored in memory in the trainable transceiver and or rear view mirror. Advantageously the connection between the trainable transceiver and the vehicle electronics system may allow for the trainable transceiver to access control provide outputs to receive inputs from and or otherwise communicate with components of the vehicle. The connection between the trainable transceiver and the vehicle electronics system may provide an advantage of allowing the trainable transceiver to make use of existing vehicle hardware for use with functions of the trainable transceiver . Duplicative hardware may not be required thereby reducing cost and or complexity of the trainable transceiver by making use of existing hardware.

The vehicle electronics system may include processors e.g. electronic control units ECU engine control modules ECM or other vehicle processors memory buses e.g. controller area network CAN bus sensors on board diagnostics equipment e.g. following the OBD II standard or other protocol cameras displays transceivers infotainment systems and or other components integrated with a vehicle s electronics systems or otherwise networked e.g. a controller area network of vehicle components . For example the vehicle electronics system may include be coupled to and or otherwise communicate with a GPS interface . The GPS interface may be configured to receive position information e.g. from a GPS satellite source . Using the vehicle electronics system vehicle electronics system interface and or control circuit the trainable transceiver may have access to position information from the GPS interface e.g. GPS coordinates corresponding to the current location of the vehicle .

Continuing the example the vehicle electronics system may include be coupled to and or otherwise communicate with a display of the vehicle. The display may include or be a dashboard display instrument panel display infotainment display rear view mirror display rear seat display and or other displays in the vehicle. Using the vehicle electronics system vehicle electronics system interface and or control circuit the trainable transceiver may have access to the display of the vehicle. The trainable transceiver may output images e.g. using a frame buffer to one or more displays of the vehicle. The trainable transceiver may output information related to training the trainable transceiver e.g. steps procedures instructions current progress etc. information related to a home electronics device and or remote device e.g. status information training information identification information etc. diagnostic information and or other information accessible to the trainable transceiver directly or through an intermediate device.

Continuing the example the vehicle electronics system may include be coupled to and or otherwise communicate with input output devices of the vehicle. Input output devices may include hardware for receiving user input and providing output to a user. Input output device may include operator input devices hardkey buttons softkey buttons touchscreens microphones speakers displays and or other hardware. Using the vehicle electronics system vehicle electronics system interface and or control circuit the trainable transceiver may receive inputs from and or generate outputs using input output devices of the vehicle.

Continuing the example the vehicle electronics system may include be coupled to and or otherwise communicate with additional transceivers included in the vehicle. Additional transceivers may include NFC transceivers e.g. used for pairing the mobile communications device with an infotainment system BLE transceivers e.g. used for wireless communication between the mobile communications device and an infotainment system cellular transceivers e.g. used for accessing the internet with the vehicle infotainment system and or other hardware radio transceivers e.g. for FM radio AM radio high definition radio satellite radio etc. and or other transceivers. Using the vehicle electronics system vehicle electronics system interface and or control circuit the trainable transceiver may receive information from send information to control communicate and or otherwise interact with additional transceivers of the vehicle. In some embodiments the trainable transceiver may use additional transceivers of the vehicle to communicate with other devices such as home electronics devices remote devices and or mobile devices. In further embodiments the trainable transceiver may use additional transceivers of the vehicle to access the internet communicate with servers access other networks and or otherwise communicate with network hardware.

Referring now to the trainable transceiver may include two modules a remote user interface module and a base station . In one embodiment the trainable transceiver is a distributed system. The remote user interface module may contain operator input devices a power source a control circuit memory output devices and or communications hardware. The remote user interface module may communicate with the base station located apart from the remote user interface module . For example the remote user interface module may include a transceiver circuit used to communicate with the base station . The base station may communicate with the remote user interface module using a transceiver circuit and or an additional transceiver such as those discussed above. The remote user interface module may process user inputs and send information to the base station with the transceiver circuit configured to send an activation signal and or other signal to another device. The transceiver circuit in the base station may be more powerful e.g. longer range than the transceiver circuit s in the remote user interface module .

In some embodiments the remote user interface module may contain a transceiver configured to allow communication between the remote user interface module and another device such as a remote device and or mobile communications device . The remote user interface module may serve as a communication bridge between the remote device or mobile communications device and another device such as the base station or the home electronics device or remote device in communication with the base station .

In other embodiments the base station may include a transceiver configured to allow communication between the remote user interface module and another device such as the remote device and or mobile communications device . In some embodiments the remote user interface module includes a training pairing device and or the base station include a training pairing device . The training pairing devices and may be or include one or more transceivers e.g. NFC transceiver BLE transceiver etc. microphones speakers light sensors light sources and or other hardware for communication between devices. The training pairing devices and may allow for communication using one or more of the techniques described above with reference to e.g. BLE communication NFC communication light based communication sound based communication etc. . The training pairing device of the remote user interface module may allow the remote user interface module to communicate with the mobile communications device and or the base station . The training pairing device of the base station may allow the base station to communicate with the mobile communications device and or the remote user interface module . Communication may include pairing the mobile communications device such that communications with the mobile communications device are possible pairing the remote user interface module and the base station such that communication between the two is possible sending and or receiving data and or other communication. In some embodiments activation signal parameters training information e.g. device identification information and or other information related to the home electronics device and or remote device are communicated between the mobile communications device and the remote user interface module and or base station . In further embodiments activation signal parameters training information e.g. device identification information and or other information related to the home electronics device and or remote device are communicated between a remote user interface module and base station . Communication may be unidirectional or bi directional.

In some embodiments the base station is coupled to connected to and or otherwise in communication with a system of the vehicle. For example the base station may be plugged into a power source of the vehicle such as a USB port 12 volt power port cigarette lighter and or other power source of the vehicle. In further embodiments the base station may be in communication with a vehicle electronics system. The remote user interface module may be located within the vehicle remote from the base station . For example the remote user interface module may be coupled to a vehicle visor rear view mirror windshield center counsel and or other vehicle component.

Referring generally to the mobile communications device includes an application configured to interact with the mobile communications device and the trainable transceiver in some embodiments. For example the application may control a transceiver of the mobile communications device for the function of communicating with the trainable transceiver . The application may facilitate communication between the mobile communications device and the trainable transceiver allow a user to configure or train the trainable transceiver be used to acquire activation signal parameters stored locally e.g. with the application in memory and or remotely e.g. on a server accessible to the application using a connection to the internet provided by the mobile communications device be used to transmit activation signal parameter to the trainable transceiver and or perform other functions described herein with respect to the mobile communications device and or trainable transceiver .

In some embodiments the trainable transceiver may access the internet using a communications connection with the mobile communications device . For example the trainable transceiver may transmit requests control instructions and or other information to the mobile communications device causing the mobile communications device to access information send information and or otherwise retrieve information using an internet connection e.g. through a cellular transceiver and or other transceiver . The mobile communications device may transmit the resulting information and or data to the trainable transceiver . The mobile communications device may serve as intermediary device which is used by the trainable transceiver to communicate with other devices e.g. servers networking equipment other mobile communications device home electronics devices remote devices and or other devices . In some embodiments the trainable transceiver may use the mobile communications device to retrieve activation signal parameters training information e.g. device identification information and or other information related to the home electronics device and or remote device .

In some embodiments the trainable transceiver may communicate with other devices e.g. mobile communications devices home electronics devices remote devices network hardware and or other devices using other techniques. These techniques may be used in addition to or in place of those previously described. For example short message service SMS messages internet communication protocols inductive coupling mini access point protocols e.g. a device may be or include a mini access point that allows communication without requiring a connection to the internet web based interfaces and or other communications techniques may be used.

In some embodiments free space optical communication techniques and or techniques in which data is encoded onto light emitted by a light source through modulation of the light source e.g. frequency modulation amplitude modulation etc. may be used for wireless communications between one or more of the devices illustrated in . For example the devices may include light sources such as light emitting diodes and light sensors e.g. a camera photodector used to generate light based signals and to receive light based signals. This and or other hardware e.g. control circuit or software may allow two or more devices to communicate using light. In other embodiments two or more of the devices illustrated in communicate using sound based communication. For example a modulated sound wave technique technique based on the frequency wavelength amplitude Decibel and or other parameters of the sound wave s protocol e.g. fax protocol and or other technique may be used to communicate using sound waves. The sound waves may be in the ultrasound frequency spectrum acoustic e.g. audible spectrum infrasound spectrum and or other spectrum. The devices may include hardware and or software used in communicating with sound such as control circuits speakers microphones and or other hardware and or software used to facilitate sound based communication. In further embodiments other types of communication may be used. For example two devices may communicate by exchanging machine readable images containing encoded information e.g. a display of a first device displays a machine readable image read by a camera of a second device an decoded using a control circuit by exchanging text messages by exchanging e mails and or using other types of communication.

Referring generally to the trainable transceiver may perform one or more auxiliary functions using one or more of the communication methods described above and or one or more additional devices e.g. the mobile communications device or hardware e.g. networking hardware . Auxiliary functions may be performed in addition to or in place of functions associated with controlling the home electronics device remote device and or other device e.g. sending activation signals formatted to control a device receiving status information from a device communicating with a device etc. .

Referring now to the trainable transceiver includes an indicator light in some embodiments. The trainable transceiver may be in communication with the mobile communications device using one or more of the communication techniques described herein e.g. using a BLE transceiver of the mobile communications device and the BLE transceiver of the trainable transceiver . The mobile communications device may provide the trainable transceiver with information related to the mobile communications device e.g. phone calls messages notifications and or other information associated with the mobile communications device and or an application running thereon . In response to information received from the mobile communications device the trainable transceiver may illuminate the indicator light e.g. by processing information received from the mobile communications device using the control circuit of the trainable transceiver and illuminating the indicator light in response to the control circuit . The indicator light may be an output device of the trainable transceiver rear view mirror and or vehicle electronics system and may include hardware such as LED lights displays speakers e.g. the trainable transceiver may produce a noise to indicate a received message etc. For example if the mobile communications device receives a SMS message text message e mail phone call voice mail and or other communication e.g. using an internet connection cellular transceiver etc. the mobile communications device may communicate this status to the trainable transceiver e.g. using a Bluetooth protocol . In response the trainable transceiver may process the communication and illuminate the indicator light e.g. using the control circuit . Advantageously a vehicle occupant can be made aware of a communication received by the mobile communications device without having to look at the mobile communications device . For example the indicator light may be part of the rear view mirror which the vehicle occupant looks at while driving the vehicle. This provides an advantage in that the vehicle occupant can view the status of the mobile communications device e.g. that a message has been received without altering the diver s normal driving routine e.g. checking the rear view mirror to look at the mobile communications device .

Referring now to the trainable transceiver may include a plurality of indicator lights . For example each indicator light may correspond to a particular communication which may be received by the mobile communications device. As depicted in an indicator light may correspond to an e mail text message phone call and voicemail received by the mobile communications device . Upon receiving a communication the mobile communications device may communicate information about the communication to the trainable transceiver . For example the mobile communications device may communicate to the trainable transceiver information identifying the type of communication received by the mobile communications device . The trainable transceiver may in turn use this information to illuminate a corresponding indicator light . Advantageously the trainable transceiver may provide a vehicle occupant with information as to the type of communication received as well as the information that a communication has been received.

In some embodiments the mobile communications device may provide more detailed information to the trainable transceiver . For example the mobile communications device may provide an image e.g. a frame buffer corresponding to message text an application icon corresponding to a received communication and or other information. Using a display included in the trainable transceiver and or accessible to the trainable transceiver e.g. a display in an integrated rear view mirror system the trainable transceiver may display the more detailed information to a vehicle occupant. For example the trainable transceiver e.g. using the control circuit to receive information from the mobile communications device process the information control a display etc. may display to the vehicle occupant information corresponding to the communications received by the mobile communications device . As discussed above the indicator light and or other hardware used to relay information received by the mobile communications device to a vehicle occupant using the trainable transceiver may be or include a display of the trainable transceiver display of a rear view mirror display of a vehicle electronics system e.g. infotainment system and or other hardware configured to provide an output to a vehicle occupant.

Referring now to the trainable transceiver may provide inputs to the mobile communications device to control one or more features of the mobile communications device and or applications running on the mobile communications device . In some embodiments the trainable transceiver includes an input mechanism and or operator input device as discussed above. The input mechanism and or operator input device may serve two functions. For example the input mechanism may be used to provide inputs which control functions and or features of the trainable transceiver described herein e.g. sending an activation signal and the input mechanism may be used to provide inputs which control functions and or features of the mobile communications device . The trainable transceiver may arbitrate between inputs e.g. using the control circuit memory and or other hardware to determine if an input controls the trainable transceiver and or the mobile communications device . The trainable transceiver may arbitrate between inputs using one or more factors such as inputs selecting which function the user wishes to control e.g. a button to switch between functions what function the previous input output or other action was related to geographic proximity to a device controlled by the functions of the trainable transceiver and or other factors. In other embodiments the operator input device and or input mechanism may include hardware dedicated to receiving user inputs form controlling functions of the trainable transceiver and a second set of hardware dedicated to receiving using inputs form controlling functions related to the mobile communications device .

In some embodiments the input mechanism and or operator input device is or includes hard key buttons softkey buttons a touchscreen display microphone e.g. using voice commands and or other hardware configured to accept user inputs. In some embodiments the input received by the operator input device and or input mechanism may be interpreted by the control circuit and or memory of the trainable transceiver . For example a user may press a button of the trainable transceiver . The control circuit may determine that this button corresponds to a command to place a call to a particular contact located in a phonebook of the mobile communications device . The control circuit may communicate information instructions a control signal and or other data to the mobile communications device e.g. using a BLE transceiver configured to cause the mobile communications device to place the call. The mobile communications device may receive the communication from the trainable transceiver and take a corresponding action e.g. placing a call to a particular contact . In some embodiments the trainable transceiver may cause the mobile communications device to take one or more of a variety of actions. These actions may include placing a call sending a message dismissing a notification updating a status and or otherwise using the mobile communications device and or an application running thereon to take an action.

In some embodiments the trainable transceiver is customizable such that a user may select a particular function related to the mobile communications device which the trainable transceiver and mobile communications device carry out in response to a particular input e.g. pushing a particular button of the trainable transceiver . In one embodiment the functions of the input mechanism may be assigned using input mechanisms and or operator input devices of the trainable transceiver . For example a user may select from a list of available functions to associate with a particular button using buttons of the trainable transceiver e.g. input buttons illustrated in and a display associated with the trainable transceiver . The mobile communications device may be in communication with the trainable transceiver such that the trainable transceiver provides a list of assignable functions based on information from the mobile communications device . For example the mobile communications device may provide a list of functions for which the mobile communications device may receive commands which control the functions e.g. placing a phone call sending a message etc. . In other embodiments the trainable transceiver and functions for controlling the mobile communications device may be configured using the mobile communications device in communication with the trainable transceiver and or an application running on the mobile communications device . For example a user may use an application on the mobile communications device to assign functions of the mobile communications device to particular trainable transceiver inputs which when selected carry out the assigned function. The mobile communications device and or the application may communicate this configuration information to the trainable transceiver . The trainable transceiver may in turn be configured by and or use this information to configure itself to control functions of the mobile communications device . In further embodiments hardware associated with the vehicle electronic system e.g. an infotainment system may be used in conjunction with or in place of one or more of the configuration techniques described above.

Using one or more of the above described techniques the buttons of the trainable transceiver may be used to control one or more functions of a mobile communications device . In this way buttons of the trainable transceiver may act as hot keys e.g. shortcut keys which when pressed cause the mobile communications device to perform a particular function. Advantageously this may allow a user to control the mobile communications device without taking his or her eyes of the road e.g. the trainable transceiver is integrated with a rear view mirror . This configuration may also provide an advantage in that the vehicle occupant need not have access to the mobile communications device in order to control the mobile communications device . For example the mobile communications device may be in a pocket or handbag of the vehicle occupant e.g. driver . It may be inconvenient and or dangerous for a vehicle occupant to access the mobile communication device while driving but it may be more convenient and or safer to control the mobile communications device using a hot key of the trainable transceiver .

Referring now to the trainable transceiver may determine whether an input controls functions of the trainable transceiver or functions of the mobile communications device based on the location of the trainable transceiver in relationship to one or more of the devices the trainable transceiver is trained to control. The trainable transceiver may receive position information from one or more of the sources previously described. For example the current position of the trainable transceiver may be determined using a GPS device included in the trainable transceiver a GPS device accessible by the trainable transceiver dead reckoning techniques etc. The position of devices which the trainable transceiver is configured to control may be determined using one or more of the techniques previously described. For example the location of the device may be stored in memory based on GPS position information retrieved during the training process. In other embodiments the trainable transceiver may determine its position relative to more or more devices based on the signal range of the transceiver circuit. For example the trainable transceiver may send a signal to the home electronics device . If the home electronics device does not send an acknowledgement signal the trainable transceiver may determine that is not in signal range of the home electronics device . Conversely if an acknowledgement signal is received the trainable transceiver may determine that it is within signal range of the device.

The flow chart illustrated in illustrated one embodiment of a flow chart describing the logical process carried out by the trainable transceiver to determine the appropriate function to be controlled by the trainable transceiver . The trainable transceiver may receive a user input step . For example the user input may be a button press. The trainable transceiver may then determine its position relative to the home electronics device and or other device which the trainable transceiver is programmed to control e.g. by sending an activation signal in response to the user input e.g. the button press step . If the trainable transceiver determines that it is within range of the home electronics device and or other device associated with the user input e.g. using position information and or the reception of an acknowledgement signal the trainable transceiver may send an activation signal to the home electronics device and or other device step . For example the trainable transceiver may send an activation signal to the home electronics devices associated with the button the user has pressed.

If the trainable transceiver determines that it is not in range of the home electronics device and or other device associated with the button e.g. using position information the trainable transceiver may determine the hot key function corresponding to the user input device step . For example the control circuit may read memory in order to determine which function of the mobile communications device is associated with the particular button pressed by the user. The trainable transceiver may then send an instruction and or other information to the mobile electronics device in order to carry out the function associated with the user input received step . For example the trainable transceiver may determine that the button pressed corresponds to placing a call to a particular contact in the phonebook of the mobile communications device . The trainable transceiver may send an instruction to the mobile communications device e.g. using a Bluetooth protocol which the mobile communication device carries out e.g. the mobile communications device places the call .

Referring now to the mobile electronics device may function as a key for the trainable transceiver in some embodiments. The trainable transceiver may be configured such that no activation signals are sent unless the trainable transceiver receives information from the mobile communications device . The information received from the mobile communications device may be a unique key which when received by the trainable transceiver allows the trainable transceiver to function. Other cryptographic techniques may be used such that the trainable transceiver does not function unless in communication with the or a particular mobile communications device.

Referring now to the mobile communications device and or an application running on the mobile communications device transmit a key e.g. data and or information which when received by the trainable transceiver allows the trainable transceiver to send activation signals and or otherwise communicate with devices . The mobile communications device may transmit the key continuously intermittently when the mobile communications device is paired with the trainable transceiver and or in response to a user input provided through an input mechanism associated with the mobile communications device e.g. a touchscreen .

Referring to the trainable transceiver will not send activation signals in response to user input if the key has not been received by the trainable transceiver in some embodiments. The trainable transceiver may check to see if the key has been received every time a user provides an input at a certain time interval since the key was last received e.g. 10 minutes since the key was received continuously and or at other times or using other techniques. In some embodiments if the trainable transceiver is outside the transmission range of signal from the mobile communications device e.g. outside the range of the BLE transceiver included in the mobile communications device the trainable transceiver will not send activation signals in response to user inputs as the trainable transceiver is unable to receive a key from the mobile communications device .

Referring now to when the trainable transceiver is within the transmission range of the mobile communications device the trainable transceiver may receive the key from the mobile communications device . For example the mobile communications device may be continuously transmitting the key and the trainable transceiver may receive the key once it is within the transmission range of the mobile communications device . Alternatively the mobile communications device may pair with the trainable transceiver once the trainable transceiver is within the transmission range of the mobile communications device e.g. using a Bluetooth protocol . Upon the trainable transceiver paring with the mobile communications device the mobile communications device may send the key to the trainable transceiver . The trainable transceiver may then send activation signals in response to user input received by the trainable transceiver .

In some embodiments other functions of the trainable transceiver may be disabled when no key has been received. For example a user may be prevented from training the trainable transceiver when the trainable transceiver has not received the key. In some embodiments the trainable transceiver includes a database of keys which when transmitted to the trainable transceiver allow the trainable transceiver to function. A key may be transmitted to a mobile communications device for later use when the mobile communications device is first paired to the trainable transceiver . In some embodiments multi factor security may be used when the mobile communications device is given the key. For example the mobile communications device may be required to pair with the trainable transceiver using NFC ensuring that the user has physical access to the trainable transceiver . Additionally the key may be transmitted by e mail and or a user may be required to authenticate the mobile communications device in response to an e mail triggered by the pairing process. Other encryption techniques may be used to provide the mobile communications device with the key. Furthermore the key may be implemented by one or more encryption techniques. For example the key may be a rolling code fixed code encrypted and or otherwise be implemented with an encryption technique.

In one embodiment the trainable transceiver attempts to receive the key at start up. For example a transceiver of the trainable transceiver may be set to listen for a mobile communications device at a specific frequency e.g. 915 MHz . If the key is not received at startup e.g. or within a certain time period of the trainable transceiver starting up such as 3 minutes the trainable transceiver will not send activation signals in response to user inputs and or other features of the trainable transceiver may be disabled. In other embodiments the trainable transceiver may listen for the key at multiple frequencies and or using multiple communications protocols. The mobile communications device functioning as the key may be dedicated and or have other functions. For example a smartphone may function as the key. In further example a dongle attached to the smartphone or a key fob may function as the key.

Referring now to the trainable transceiver may send a request for the key in some embodiments. The trainable transceiver may send a transmission to the mobile communications device e.g. one paired with the trainable transceiver requesting the key from the mobile communications device . In some embodiments the trainable transceiver may send a key request transmission after failing to receive a key in response to the first key request transmission. In one embodiment the trainable transceiver sends a key request transmission periodically. In other embodiments the trainable transceiver sends a key request transmission upon the occurrence of a triggering event. For example the triggering event may be and or include powering on the trainable transceiver pairing with the mobile communications device receiving a user input corresponding to sending an activation signal detecting that the trainable transceiver is within communications range of the home electronics device or other device and or other events. In further embodiments the mobile communications device may be configured to push a key to the trainable transceiver without first receiving a request for the key. For example a user may provide an input through an application on the mobile communications device which pushes the key to the trainable transceiver . One or more of the above described techniques may be used in combination.

Referring now to if the key is not received the trainable transceiver may disable one or more functions e.g. sending activation signals . For example a key may not be received in response to a request transmission because the mobile communications device having the key is outside of the transmission range of the trainable transceiver e.g. outside the transmission range of the BLE transceiver used by the trainable transceiver to communicate with mobile communications devices .

Referring now to upon receiving a request for the key the mobile communications device may transmit the key to the trainable transceiver . Upon receiving the key the trainable transceiver may determine e.g. using the control circuit and memory that the key allows the trainable transceiver to perform one or more functions e.g. sending activation signals . For example the trainable transceiver may check the received key against a key saved in memory of the trainable transceiver . Upon determining that the key is a correct key the trainable transceiver may enable one or more functions e.g. sending an activation signal .

Advantageously the functions described above with reference to provide for secured use of the trainable transceiver . The trainable transceiver may prevent unauthorized use of the trainable transceiver by requiring a key from a user stored on the mobile communications device . In some embodiments the features described above with respect to requiring a key may be used in combination with other features functions and or applications described herein. For example the key may be used to allow the mobile communications device to work with a plurality of vehicles and trainable transceivers with the mobile communications device knowing which vehicle s trainable transceiver it is connected to. For example the key may be unique to each trainable transceiver. This may allow the mobile communications device to configure each trainable transceiver based upon the vehicle in which the trainable transceiver is located and or perform other functions discussed with reference to .

Referring generally to the techniques described in reference to may be used to provide a notification to a user that the trainable transceiver is within transmission range of the home electronics device remote device and or other device which the trainable transceiver is trained to control. Upon determining that the trainable transceiver is within transmission range of a device the trainable transceiver may provide a notification to a user and or vehicle occupant as described with reference to . For example an indicator light corresponding to the device may be illuminated information may be displayed on a display of the trainable transceiver rear view mirror and or vehicle infotainment system a speaker may be used to output an audible notification an instruction may be sent to the mobile communications device to cause the device to vibrate etc. In some embodiments a light source is illuminated corresponding to the button which sends an activation signal corresponding to the device which is in range. For example each of three buttons may be configured to send an activation signal to a different device. As each device comes within the transmission range as determined by the trainable transceiver a backlight behind the button and or a light incorporated into the button may be illuminated for the button corresponding to the device coming within the transmission range of the trainable transceiver e.g. the transceiver circuit . The light may remain illuminated until the trainable transceiver is powered off e.g. the vehicle is turned off until a predetermined amount of time has passed e.g. 10 minutes the button is pressed the device exits the transmission range of the trainable transceiver and or another event occurs. In further embodiments a backlight of the trainable transceiver may be illuminated a particular color when one or all of the devices are within transmission range. For example the backlight color may change from orange to green. In further embodiments the backlight is illuminated when one or all of the devices are within transmission range . In embodiments of the trainable transceiver using one or more profiles as described with reference to the above techniques may be used with respect to the active profile and or the device for which the trainable transceiver is currently trained to control. Alternatively or additionally the trainable transceiver may determine which set of device for which to apply the above described notification techniques based on the location of the trainable transceiver . For example the trainable transceiver may produce notifications based on the transmission range of the trainable transceiver in relationship to the group e.g. profile of devices which the trainable transceiver is closest to as determined using GPS data and or other positioning data.

The trainable transceiver may determine that a device is within the transmission range of the trainable transceiver using one or more of the techniques described with reference to . For example the trainable transceiver may determine that a device is within the transmission range based on location and or position data corresponding to the location of the device and location and or position data corresponding to the current location of the trainable transceiver . The position data corresponding to the current location of the trainable transceiver may come from dead reckoning cellular triangular a GPS sensor in communication with the trainable transceiver e.g. included in the trainable transceiver included in the mobile communications device paired to the trainable transceiver included in the vehicle etc. and or using any technique described with reference to . Similarly position and or location data corresponding to a device may be provided using one or more of the techniques described with reference to . For example the position information may be based on GPS coordinates stored in memory when the trainable transceiver was trained to control the device based on an address provided by a user corresponding to the location of the device and or other techniques described with reference to .

In some embodiments the trainable transceiver may determine if a device is the within transmission range using two way e.g. bidirectional communication with the device as described with reference to . For example the trainable transceiver may send out a request transmission to the device continuously periodically and or based on the location of the trainable transceiver relative to the device. If the trainable transceiver receives a transmission from the device in response to the request transmission the trainable transceiver may determine that the device is within the transmission range of the trainable transceiver .

Referring now to the mobile communications device with an internet connection may be used to extend the range of a trainable transceiver in some embodiments. It may be advantageous to extend the range of the trainable transceiver beyond the range of the transceiver circuit included in the trainable transceiver . This may allow the trainable transceiver to send activation signals to home electronics devices remote devices and or other devices at a greater distance. Similarly extending the range of the trainable transceiver may allow bidirectional communication between the trainable transceiver and home electronics devices remote devices and or other devices at a greater range. For example the home electronics device may transmit status information to the trainable transceiver which the trainable transceiver may process and or output to a vehicle occupant.

In one embodiment the trainable transceiver connects to the internet using a transceiver included in the trainable transceiver . For example the trainable transceiver may include a cellular transceiver which allows the trainable transceiver to connect to the internet. In other embodiments the trainable transceiver may connect to the internet via one or more vehicle electronics systems. For example the vehicle may include a cellular transceiver which the trainable transceiver is configured to control e.g. using the control circuit . In further embodiments the trainable transceiver connects to the internet via the mobile communications device and or application running thereon. For example the trainable transceiver may transmit instructions and or other information to the mobile communications device e.g. using a Bluetooth protocol and or BLE transceiver . The mobile communications device may receive the instructions and or information and access the internet using a cellular transceiver included in the mobile communications device .

Referring now to the connection to the internet e.g. directly or through an intermediate device such as the mobile communications device may be used by the trainable transceiver to communicate with the home electronics device remote device and or other device. In some embodiments the home electronics device remote device and or other device is configured to connect to the internet . For example the device may include a radio frequency transceiver allowing for communication with an internet connected WiFi router. The communication between the trainable transceiver and the device using the internet and or intermediate devices may be unidirectional or bidirectional. For example the trainable transceiver may transmit activation signals control signals data and or other information to the device. The activation signal may activate and or otherwise control the device. Continuing the example the device e.g. the home electronics device remote device and or other device may transmit information to the trainable transceiver using the internet and or intermediate devices. The information may include status information diagnostic information activation signal receipt confirmation and or other information.

Referring now to in one embodiment the transmission from the trainable transceiver using the internet and or the internet and an intermediate device e.g. the mobile communications device may be received by a second trainable transceiver . The second trainable transceiver may be connected to the internet directly or through an intermediate source. For example the second trainable transceiver may include a cellular transceiver configured to connect the trainable transceiver to the internet . Alternatively the trainable transceiver may include a wireless transceiver and or wired connection configured to connect the second trainable transceiver to a router modem and or other networking hardware configured to connect the trainable transceiver to the internet .

The second trainable transceiver may be placed such that one or more home electronic device remote devices and or other devices are within the transmission range of the transceiver circuit of the trainable transceiver and or an additional transceiver of the trainable transceiver . Upon receiving a transmission from the first trainable transceiver via the internet and or intermediate devices the second transceiver may relay the communication to one or more devices. For example the first trainable transceiver may transmit an activation signal activation signal parameters and an activation signal transmission request data instructions and or other information to the second trainable transceiver using the internet and or other hardware. The second trainable transceiver may interpret the information received from the first trainable transceiver and take further action. For example the second trainable transceiver may format an activation signal and transmit the activation signal to one or more devices based on the information received from the first trainable transceiver . This may include executing instructions received from the first trainable transceiver e.g. using a control circuit and or memory of the second trainable transceiver retransmitting an activation signal received from the first trainable transceiver retransmitting information received from the first trainable transceiver and or otherwise manipulating processing and or transmitting information based on the information received from the first trainable transceiver . In one embodiment the second trainable transceiver may be placed in a garage and or coupled to an internet connected device located in a garage. This may enable the second trainable transceiver to control devices such as a garage door opener based on information received from the first trainable transceiver while the first trainable transceiver is outside of its transmission range with the garage door opener. Advantageously this system may allow the first trainable transceiver to receive a user input and for the user input to result in controlling the garage door opener even through the garage door opener is outside of the transmission range of the transceiver circuit of the first trainable transceiver .

In some embodiments the home electronics device remote device and or other device may be configured to connect to the internet . The device may include a WiFi transceiver for connecting to a router network card wired connection to a router or modem cellular transceiver and or other hardware for accessing the internet . For example a garage door opener may include a WiFi transceiver for connecting to a router and or home network with access to the internet . The garage door opener may be configured to send status information to the mobile communications device and or trainable transceiver via the internet . The status information may be displayed to a user and or vehicle occupant. For example the mobile communications device may display the information on a display included in the mobile communications device . The mobile communications device may transmit the information to the trainable transceiver using one or more of the communication techniques described herein e.g. light based sound based using a BLE transceiver etc. . The trainable transceiver may display status information to a vehicle occupant using a display included in the trainable transceiver a vehicle display controllable by the trainable transceiver e.g. in the rear view mirror or infotainment center and or other displays. In some embodiments status information may be communicated to a user and or vehicle occupant using a speaker associated with the mobile communications device trainable transceiver rear view mirror and or vehicle electronics system. Status information may include whether the garage door is open or closed the last command received a history of activation signals received including time of reception source and or other information etc. Status information may be sent by any home electronics device remote device and or other device with access to the internet and or using another communication technique described herein. Status information may include information related to devices other than garage door openers. For example status information may include whether a home lighting system is on or whether the lights are off.

Referring now to the trainable transceiver may be configured to operate with a second trainable transceiver in physical contact with the original transmitter in some embodiments. The first trainable transceiver may send an activation signal and or other information to the second trainable transceiver which is in physical contact with the original transmitter of the home electronics device remote device and or other device. In response to the signal received from the first trainable transceiver the second trainable transceiver may physically activate the original transmitter . The original transmitter may send an activation signal to the corresponding home electronics device remote device and or other device in response to being physically activated. For example the second transceiver may include an electric motor solenoid and or other electromechanical system configured to depress a button or other input mechanism included in the original transmitter . In response to receiving the physical input of the second trainable transceiver the original transmitter may send an activation signal.

Advantageously this configuration may allow a first trainable transceiver to control the home electronics device remote device and or other device without being trained to format an activation signal for controlling the device. For example the first trainable transceiver and the second trainable transceiver may communicate using a fixed frequency or frequencies e.g. the 900 MHz band . The first trainable transceiver and the second trainable transceiver may use an encryption technique to communicate securely. For example the first trainable transceiver and the second trainable transceiver may communicate using a rolling code that is known to both trainable transceivers without requiring the trainable transceivers to be trained. For example the rolling code may be provided to a pair of trainable transceiver sold together prior to sale.

Generally the trainable transceiver and or the mobile communications device may have further auxiliary functions which make use of one or more of the communications techniques and or other operational techniques previously described herein.

In one embodiment the mobile communications device may be used to notify a user when the trainable transceiver receives status information from the home electronics device remote device and or other device in communication with the trainable transceiver . Upon receiving status information from the device the trainable transceiver may communicate this information and or an instruction or other information to the mobile communications device . The trainable transceiver may communicate with the mobile communications device using one or more of the techniques described with reference to e.g. using a Bluetooth protocol .

In response to the information and or instructions received from the trainable transceiver the mobile communications device may notify a user based on the information. In some embodiments the mobile communications device notifies the user using one or more of a display a speaker and or a vibration motor. For example a user may provide an input to the trainable transceiver causing an activation signal to be sent to close a garage door. The garage door opener may receive the activation signal and close the garage door. The garage door opener may send status information indicating the garage door is closed to the trainable transceiver using one or more of the bi directional e.g. two way communications techniques described herein e.g. the garage door opener sends information using a transceiver circuit which the trainable transceiver receives using the transceiver circuit . The trainable transceiver may then transmit this information and or an instruction e.g. to turn on the vibration motor of the mobile communications device for a set period of time to the mobile communications device e.g. using the BLE transceiver . The mobile communications device may receive the information and or instruction e.g. using the BLE transceiver . The mobile communications device may then process execute and or otherwise manipulate the instructions and or information received in order to produce a notification. For example the mobile communications device may execute an instruction to turn on the vibration motor causing the phone to shake or vibrate. This may notify the user that the garage door has been closed. In some embodiments a user may configure and or customize the notifications produced in response to particular information received from the trainable transceiver . In some embodiments the user makes this customization through an application running on the mobile communications device .

In some embodiments the mobile communication device in communication with the trainable transceiver may provide the trainable transceiver information about the current position of the trainable transceiver . The mobile communications device may receive position information from a GPS sensor and or other device included in the mobile communications device . The mobile communications device may communicate this information to the trainable transceiver using one or more of the communication techniques described in reference to . In other embodiments position information may be provided to the trainable transceiver from another source such as sensors included in the trainable transceiver a vehicle electronics system and or other hardware.

Using position information the trainable transceiver may have multiple functions associated with one operator input device of the trainable transceiver e.g. a single button . For example a single button may cause an activation signal to be transmitted or cause a mobile communications device function to be performed depending on the location e.g. position of the trainable transceiver as described with reference to . Using the trainable transceiver and or a mobile communications device a user may configure the trainable transceiver to perform particular functions based on the location of the trainable transceiver . For example the trainable transceiver may have access to position information corresponding to the locations of device for which the trainable transceiver is trained to control. For example the trainable transceiver may store position information in memory during the training process as previously described. In other embodiments position information related to the devices may be provided by a user through the mobile communications device . For example a user may provide an address and or map location corresponding to a device which the mobile communications device uses to determine position information e.g. GPS coordinates . The mobile communications device may then transmit this information to the trainable transceiver .

The trainable transceiver may determine what function to perform based on one or more of the current position of the trainable transceiver the position of the devices which the trainable transceiver is configured to control and or configuration settings parameters and or other information provided by a user. For example a user may set location boundaries in which an input to the trainable transceiver performs a particular action. For example the user may set the boundary as 20 miles from the device. Within 20 miles of the device pressing a button on the trainable transceiver may send an activation signal to the device. If the trainable transceiver is within 20 miles of a second device pressing the same button on the trainable transceiver may send an activation signal to the second device. Thus the user may set geographic areas in which the trainable transceiver performs certain functions. The geographic areas may be based on the location of one or more devices e.g. home electronics devices remote devices and or other device with the location of the trainable transceiver determined from position information provided by the trainable transceiver itself the mobile communications device a vehicle electronics system and or another source. In other embodiments the function performed by an input to the trainable transceiver may be determined by the transmission range of the trainable transceiver as discussed with reference to . Similar techniques may be used to control one or more functions of the mobile communications device and or an application running thereon. For example an application for sending control signals to device e.g. through the trainable transceiver through the internet and or through additional hardware may be reconfigured based on the location of the trainable transceiver and or mobile communications device . The buttons corresponding to device which are controllable may change based on which geographic boundary the mobile communications device is in and or based on the transmission range of the trainable transceiver e.g. which devices are within the transmission range .

In other embodiments additional techniques may be used in place of or in conjunction with those described above. For example the trainable transceiver may be configured to perform multiple functions based on a single input e.g. one button can send two different activation signals . The function which is performed by the input may be determined based on which corresponding device is closest to the trainable transceiver . For example the button may be configured to send an activation signal to one of two devices for which the trainable transceiver has access to position information. Using the position of the two devices and the current position of the trainable transceiver the trainable transceiver may send an activation signal to the closer of the two devices upon receiving the user input. Particular activation signals e.g. using codes for a particular device may be tied to GPS locations.

Advantageously the above described techniques may be used to allow the trainable transceiver to control a plurality of devices at a plurality of locations while maintain a simple and easy to user interface. For example three buttons may be used to control three devices at one location while also controlling three devices at a second third or other location. Advantageously the trainable transceiver may user location and or position data as described above to automatically predict which device the user wishes to control with the user input. By anticipating the user s intentions based on the location of the trainable transceiver the trainable transceiver may provide a simple and easy to use interface for controlling many devices.

In some embodiments one or more light sensors and or cameras and included in the rear view mirror or elsewhere in or on the vehicle are used to receive communications from sources outside the vehicle. As described in reference to free space optical communication techniques may be used by the rear view mirror and or trainable transceiver to receive and interpret communications from sources located outside the vehicle. The received light may be interpreted using a control circuit and or memory. The control circuit may be located in the trainable transceiver rear view mirror and or vehicle electronics system. In some embodiments free space optical communication is used without the trainable transceiver by the vehicle to receive communications.

Communications received from sources outside the vehicle may be used for a variety of functions. For example a light source associated with a roadway toll system may communicate toll information to the vehicle using the light source. The vehicle may process the information and display information to a vehicle occupant. For example the vehicle rear view mirror and or trainable transceiver may display the cost of the toll to a vehicle occupant. This information and or other information may be displayed on a display associated with the trainable transceiver rear view mirror e.g. integrated in the mirror and or the vehicle e.g. an infotainment system . In some embodiments a vehicle occupant may communicate information in response to the information received. For example the user may provide an input to pay the toll. Using a transceiver associated with the trainable transceiver rear view mirror the connected mobile communications device and or the vehicle payment information may be transmitted. In some embodiments the payment information may be transmitted to a source and or using signal parameters defined by the transmission received. For example the light transmission may include a code frequency and or other information which enables the trainable transceiver to format a signal to send using the transceiver circuit which may be received by a transceiver of the toll system. In other embodiments other transceivers associated with the vehicle may be used. In further embodiments one or more of the communication techniques described with reference to may be used e.g. light based sound based and or using a transceiver .

In some embodiments the same or similar techniques may be used for other applications. For example points of interest may include a transceiver or light source which provides information to the vehicle about the point of interest as the vehicle approaches. This information may be displayed to a vehicle occupant. The information may include a summary of the point of interest directions on how to get to the point of interest and or other information. Other applications may include receiving information about road side services such as the location of gas stations fuel prices etc. Traffic alerts and or other public announcement information may be conveyed to a vehicle occupant using the same or similar techniques. In some embodiments billboards and or other advertisements may include a transceiver light source etc. for communicating information to the vehicle. This information may be displayed to a vehicle occupant. Other applications of the communications techniques described herein are possible.

In some embodiments the home electronics device remote device and or other device may be and or include a wireless access point. For example the wireless access point may be a mini access point. The wireless access point may operate on a WiFi protocol e.g. an IEEE 802.11 protocol create a network and or otherwise allow for communication between the device and other devices such as the trainable transceiver . In some embodiments the device and or wireless access point is not connected to the internet. In other embodiments the device and or wireless access point is connected to the internet. In further embodiments the wireless access point may be implemented with another device such as a router to which other devices e.g. home electronics devices remote devices trainable transceivers mobile communications devices and or other devices connect to a network.

The wireless access point and or the network created by the wireless access point may be encrypted password protected and or otherwise secured e.g. using an IEEE 802.11 security algorithm such as Wired Equivalent Privacy WEP WiFi Protected Access II WPA2 etc. . In some embodiments the mobile communications device may connect to the network using a password. The trainable transceiver may also connect to the wireless network. In some embodiments the password for the wireless network may be printed on the wireless access point and or the device including the hardware creating the wireless access point. For example the wireless access point may be created by a garage door opener with the password e.g. WPA2 password printed on the garage door opener. In some embodiments the wireless access point may include software firmware computer programs executable instructions and are other information e.g. stored in memory which allows a connected device to access information about the wireless access point a device creating the wireless access point and or devices connected to the wireless access point using a web browser interface. In some embodiments the wireless access point stores in memory local to the wireless access point activation signal parameters signal parameters training information and or other information related to the device including the wireless access point. In other embodiments activation signal parameters signal parameters training information and or other information related to the home electronics device and or remote device is stored locally to the device and is accessible via a connection between that device and a wireless access point.

For example a garage door opener may establish a wireless network and function as a wireless access point. A mobile communications device may connect to the wireless network wireless access point e.g. using a WiFi transceiver . Using a web browser and or other application on the mobile communications device a user may access instructions for training the trainable transceiver to control the garage door opener. The mobile communications device may also access activation signal parameters signal parameters training information and or other information related to the garage door opener. The mobile communications device may use the information to display training instructions to a user on the display of the mobile communications device and or otherwise train the trainable transceiver . The information accessed by the mobile communications device may be stored locally on a device including a wireless access point and or connected to a wireless access point.

In some embodiments the mobile communications device may use information accessed via the wireless access point to train the trainable transceiver which is in communication with the mobile communications device . For example the mobile communications device may use the information form the wireless access point to create instructions and or information which cause the trainable transceiver to be trained to control the device using one or more the of techniques described herein e.g. the trainable transceiver executes instructions received from the mobile communications device . The mobile communications device may communicate information and or instructions to the trainable transceiver . In other embodiments a user may enter information visible through the web browser into the trainable transceiver and or an application of the mobile communications device manually. The manually entered information may be communicated to the trainable transceiver using the mobile communications device and or otherwise used by the trainable transceiver in order to configure the trainable transceiver to control the device associated with the information. In further embodiments the trainable transceiver may connect to the wireless access point directly e.g. using a WiFi transceiver . The trainable transceiver may acquire activation signal parameters signal parameters training information and or other information related to a device running the wireless access point and or connected to the wireless access point. The trainable transceiver may use this information to configure itself to control one or more devices.

In some embodiments the device creating the wireless access point and or devices connected to the wireless access point may be controlled using a web browser and an additional device connected to the wireless access point such as the trainable transceiver and or mobile communications device which runs the web browser. The device running the web browser may connect automatically to the network created by the wireless access point when the device running the web browser comes into communications range of the wireless access point e.g. the device detects the network created by the wireless access point . For example as a vehicle drives towards a garage door opener including and or functioning as a wireless access point a mobile communications device that has previously connected to the wireless access point may automatically connect to the wireless access point.

Once connected to the wireless access point e.g. through the network created by the wireless access point the device including the web browser e.g. the trainable transceiver vehicle electronics system such as infotainment system mobile communications device and or other device may control the home electronics device remote device and or other device connected to the wireless access point using a web browser. For example the web browser may be used to change a parameter of a device connected to the wireless access point send an instruction to the device and or otherwise communicate with the device. Upon receiving the communication the device may interpret the communication in such a way as to allow the device to be controlled by the web browser and associated communication. For example a garage door opener may function as or include a wireless access point. Upon connecting to the garage door opener a device running a web browser may be presented with a graphical user interface based on information communicated from the garage door opener. The web browser may then be used in conjunction with the graphical user interface to communicate instructions to the garage door opener. For example a user may use the web browser to press a button corresponding to closing the garage door. Pressing the button may send corresponding information to the garage door opener that the user has pushed the button. The garage door opener may use this information to activate the garage door opener and close the garage door.

Using the web browser interface the device creating and or including the wireless access point may transmit information to the device running the web browser and cause it to display the information via the web browser. For example the wireless access point may send information such as status information related to the home electronics device remote device and or other device that causes the web browser to refresh and display the information. Continuing the example the wireless access point may be a garage door opener which transmits e.g. serves information to the mobile communications device connected to the wireless access point. This information may be that the garage door is down. The web browser may refresh and display this information to a user on the display of the mobile communications device as part of a graphical user interface e.g. text icons images etc. .

The above described examples describe the web browser as running on the mobile communications device . In some embodiments the web browser runs on the trainable transceiver including a WiFi transceiver which allows the trainable transceiver to connect to the access point. The web browser may be displayed on a display included in the trainable transceiver and or otherwise accessible to the trainable transceiver e.g. a display in a rear view mirror . In other embodiments the web browser may be running on a vehicle electronic system such as an infotainment system where the vehicle includes a WiFi transceiver allowing the vehicle to connect to the wireless access point. Using the above described techniques a wireless access point may be used to communicate activation signal parameters signal parameters training information and or other information related to the home electronics device and or remote device to the trainable transceiver for use in training the trainable transceiver . Additionally the wireless access point may be used to control one or more home electronics device and or remote devices using a web browser.

In further embodiments one or more of the above described techniques may be used to place the home electronics device remote device and or other device into a training mode. For example a web browser on the mobile communications device may be used to send information to the wireless access point and or the home electronics device or remote device to place the device into a training mode. Upon receiving the information the device may enter a training mode. When in the training mode the device e.g. garage door opener may be configured to receive an activation signal from a transceiver. The activation signal received during the training mode may be used to configure the device e.g. garage door opener to be controlled by an activation signal having the activation signal parameters of the activation signal received during the training mode. For example the activation signal parameters of the activation signal received during the training mode may be saved in memory local to the device e.g. garage door opener . Following the training mode the garage door opener may be configured to only be controlled by an activation signal having the activation signal parameters stored in memory. In some embodiments the web browser may be used to exit the training mode. In other embodiments the training mode may end after a predetermined amount of time e.g. 30 seconds and or when an activation signal is received. Other techniques may be used to control the training mode of the device.

In some embodiments the home electronics device remote device and or other device may be controlled and or communicated with using a communication technique based on the internet and or a telephone network e.g. wired or wireless such as a cellular network . For example a device may have an internet standard messaging address be configured to receive communications using an internet message format standard be configured to receive a message using a simple mail transfer protocol receive a message using an internet instant messaging protocol receive an e mail have a host name and or otherwise receive a communication using the internet and or another network. To carry out one or more of these functions the device may include networking hardware such as a networking card be connected to internet e.g. via a wired connection to a router or modem or a wireless connection to a router or modem suing a transceiver such as a WiFi transceiver and or otherwise include hardware and or software for communicating using one or more of the above communications techniques. Alternatively or additionally the device may be configured to receive SMS messages fax messages voice over internet protocol VoIP communications and or otherwise receive communications over a wired or wireless e.g. cellular telephone and or data network. To carry out one or more of these functions the device may include a cellular transceiver wired connection to a telephone line access to the internet e.g. through a WiFi transceiver and or other hardware and or software to carry out the above described communications techniques. In some embodiments the above described communications techniques may allow the device to send communications as well as to receive communications.

Using one or more of the above described communications techniques the mobile communications device may be able to control the home electronics device remote device and or other device. Controlling the home electronics device remote device and or other device may include such actions as placing the device into a training mode causing the device to activate causing he device to change status causing the device to send a communication e.g. send status information and or otherwise causing the device to take an action. In some embodiments the device may be controlled e.g. activated based on receiving a communication using one of the above described techniques. For example a garage door opener may be configured to activate a motor to open or close the garage door upon receiving an SMS message. The mobile communications device may send the SMS message through a messaging feature and or through an application. In some embodiments the address e.g. telephone number of the garage door opener is received by the mobile communications device during a training process. In other embodiments the address may be manually entered by a user e.g. the address may be provided in a user manual printed on the device etc. . In other embodiments the content of the SMS message received controls the device. For example the content of the SMS message may include a rolling code or other encryption component and or a command component such as instruction to raise the garage door. Similar techniques e.g. controlling the device based on the presence of the communication or content of the communication may be used with other of the described communication techniques e.g. e mail wherein the device has an e mail address . The information related to controlling a device using one or more of these techniques may be provided to the mobile communications device using one or more of the training processes or techniques previously described and or other training techniques.

In other embodiments a device other than the mobile communications device may communicate with the home electronics device or remote device using one or more of the above described techniques. For example the trainable transceiver may include a cellular transceiver or other hardware which allows the trainable transceiver to communicate over the internet and or over a telephone and or data network. Continuing the example the trainable transceiver may send a SMS message to device in response to a user input via a cellular transceiver. The SMS message may control the device which receives the message. Part of the training of the trainable transceiver may include acquiring address information telephone information and or other information which allows the trainable transceiver to communicate with the device using one or more of the above described techniques.

In some embodiments one or more of the bidirectional communication techniques for communication between 1 the home electronics device remote device and or other device and 2 the trainable transceiver are used to provide the status of a device associated with one or more locking mechanisms to a vehicle occupant. The device associated with the locking mechanism may be the home electronics device . For example the device may be a smart lock configured to allow a door to be locked on unlocked wirelessly. For example the smart lock may be configured to communicate with another device e.g. the mobile communications device via a Bluetooth protocol using the internet and or using another wireless communications system e.g. by SMS message e mail etc. . In some embodiments the smart lock is a wireless access point includes a wireless access point and or is otherwise controllable using a web browser. The smart lock may be configured to connect to the internet.

Using a smart lock connected to the internet the trainable transceiver may receive status information from the smart lock. For example the trainable transceiver may use a cellular transceiver to access the internet and request status information from the smart lock. In other embodiments the smart lock sends status updates to the trainable transceiver . Status updates may be sent continuously periodically when the status changes and or at other times. One or more of the communication techniques described herein may be used to allow the smart lock and the trainable transceiver to communicate e.g. the use of intermediate devices . Status information e.g. status updates may be or include whether the door or doors are locked or unlocked when the door or doors where last locked on unlocked by whom the doors were locked or unlocked an image of the person locking or unlocking the door or doors a history of status changes including one or more of the previous and or other information related to the smart lock.

The trainable transceiver may display the status information to a user and or vehicle occupant. For example the trainable transceiver may display the status information using a display incorporated in a rear view mirror display included in the trainable transceiver vehicle display such as an infotainment system and or another display coupled to or controllable by the trainable transceiver . In some embodiments the status information may be displayed to a user via the mobile communications device . For example the trainable transceiver may communicate status information to the mobile communications device using one or more of the communication techniques described herein e.g. using a Bluetooth protocol . The mobile communications device may display the status information using a display. In embodiments where the mobile communications device is used as an intermediate device to facilitate communication between the trainable transceiver and device the mobile communications device may display status information received from the home electronics device remote device or other device. In further embodiments status information may be used to generate an audible notification e.g. using a speaker included in or controllable by the trainable transceiver and or a speaker included in the mobile communications device .

In some embodiments the trainable transceiver is configured to provide a temporary code which allows for communication e.g. sending activation signals to the home electronics device remote device and or other device. For example the trainable transceiver may generate a temporary code which may be used by another trainable transceiver to operate a garage door opener. In some embodiments the temporary code is communicated to the home electronics device and or remote device by the original trainable transceiver e.g. as an activation signal or other communication . Upon receiving the temporary code and or an instruction the device may configure itself to accept an activation signal using the original activation signal parameters and or activation signal parameters including the new code. The code may be any activation signal parameter. For example the temporary code may be a rolling code. The device which receive the temporary code may store both the temporary code and an original code. In some embodiments the original trainable transceiver includes instructions with the temporary code transmitted to the device which cause the device to erase the temporary code from memory after a certain amount of time e.g. 24 hours . In other embodiments the original trainable transceiver may be used by a user to erase the temporary code from the device after it is no longer needed. For example the user may provide an input to the original trainable transceiver which causes the trainable transceiver to transmit an instruction to the device to erase the temporary code. In other embodiments the temporary code may be generated using the mobile communications device and communicated to the device using one or more of the techniques described herein e.g. directly to the device to the device through internet to the device using the trainable transceiver paired to the mobile communications device etc. . The code may be generated using an application running on the mobile communications device .

The temporary code may also be provided to a second trainable transceiver for use by a person other than the user who generated the temporary code. For example a temporary code may be generated by the trainable transceiver or mobile communications device using one of the techniques described herein e.g. generating an encryption code and transmitting it to the device to be controlled reading an encryption code value or values from memory which correspond to codes stored by the device to be controlled and providing the value or values to as a temporary code . The generated code may then be communicated to the mobile communications device . In one embodiment the temporary code is generated by the trainable transceiver and transmitted to a first mobile communications device. The first mobile communications device may communicate the temporary code to a second mobile communications device e.g. using Bluetooth and or an application . Alternatively the trainable transceiver may generate the temporary code and transmit it directly e.g. using a Bluetooth transceiver to a second mobile communications device e.g. a mobile communications device owned by the person to receive the temporary code . In other embodiments the temporary code may be generated by a first mobile communications device in communication with the trainable transceiver . For example the first mobile communications device may be storing activation signal parameters received from the trainable transceiver which may be used to generate a temporary code. Alternatively the first mobile communications device may generate a temporary code an d transmit it to a device e.g. garage door opener via the trainable transceiver such that the device stores the temporary code as explained above. The first mobile communications device may communicate the temporary code to a second mobile communications device e.g. using Bluetooth NFC the internet etc. . In some embodiments the temporary code includes activation signal parameters training information and or other information related to a device associated with the temporary code. Alternatively this information may be transmitted along with the temporary code. The temporary code and or activation signal parameters training information and or other information related to a device associated with the temporary code may be used to control an associated device. In further embodiments a first mobile communications device may transmit the temporary code and or other information to the second mobile communications device using the internet servers a cloud architecture and or other hardware and software for allowing wireless communication between two mobile communications devices.

Upon receiving the temporary code the second mobile communications device may be used to directly or indirectly control the home electronics device remote device and or other device associated with the temporary code. In one embodiment the second mobile communications device uses the temporary code to control the home electronics device remote device and or other device associated with the temporary code directly. The second mobile communications device may communicate with a device using one or more of the techniques described herein. For example the second mobile communications device may communicate with the device using a Bluetooth protocol. The second mobile communications device may pair with the device and provide the device with a control instruction e.g. activation signal and the temporary code. Without the temporary code or other code the device may not receive or execute the activation signal or control instruction transmitted by the second mobile communications device. In some embodiments the second mobile communications device may receive pairing instructions along with the temporary code. If the device e.g. garage door opener determines that the temporary code matches a corresponding temporary code or the code stored by the device the device may be activated or otherwise controlled by the transmission from the second mobile communications device. For example the trainable transceiver may generate a temporary code which is transmitted to the garage door opener and to the second mobile communications device e.g. by a first mobile communications device which receives the temporary code from the trainable transceiver . Along with the temporary code the second mobile communications device may receive pairing information corresponding to the garage door opener. When the second mobile communications device is brought within transmission range the second mobile communications device may pair with the garage door opener. The mobile communications device may then transmit an activation signal including the temporary code. The garage door opener may check the received temporary code e.g. the temporary code from the second mobile communications device with the temporary code stored in memory e.g. the temporary code received from the trainable transceiver . If the two codes match the garage door opener may execute the instruction received from the second mobile communications device along with the temporary code e.g. open the garage door .

In other embodiments the second mobile communications device may pair with a second trainable transceiver located within transmission range of the device to which the temporary code corresponds. For example a second trainable transceiver may be located within a garage and within transmission range of one or more home electronics devices e.g. a garage door opener remote devices and or other devices. The second mobile communications device may communicate with the second trainable transceiver and provide an instruction and or information e.g. activation signal parameters device identification information etc. to the second trainable transceiver in conjunction with the temporary code. In response to the communication from the second mobile communications device the second trainable transceiver may send an activation signal including the temporary code to the device associated with the temporary code e.g. using the transceiver circuit of the second trainable transceiver . The device may be controlled based on this transmission.

In other embodiments the second mobile communications device may pair with a second trainable transceiver located within a second vehicle. The second mobile communications device may provide the second trainable transceiver with the temporary code and or other information for controlling the associated device e.g. activation signal parameters training information etc. . Using this information the second trainable transceiver may control the device. For example a user may generate a temporary code as explained above and transmit the temporary code to a mobile communications device in the possession of another person e.g. a friend . The other person may provide the information to their trainable transceiver e.g. a different trainable transceiver which is located in their vehicle . The other person may then drive to the location of the user s home and activate the device e.g. the user s garage door opener with their trainable transceiver and the activation signal parameters temporary code and or other information provided by the other person s mobile communications device to their trainable transceiver. This may allow a user to provide another person with temporary control of their device through the other person s own trainable transceiver.

In other embodiments the temporary code may be a one time use code. For example the code may be a single encryption code e.g. a fixed code one code of a roll of rolling codes etc. . In further embodiments the temporary code may be a series or plurality of codes e.g. of the next codes in the rolling code sequence . For example the trainable transceiver and or mobile communication devices may transmit one rolling code value to the second trainable transceiver e.g. through an intermediate mobile communications device or devices . When the a second trainable transceiver sends an activation signal using the rolling code value which is received by a device the device may activate as the code value matches a value expected by the device. Upon receiving the code value the device may advance the roll. The second trainable transceiver will not be able to control the device again as the second trainable transceiver does not have the new code value. In some embodiments the a second trainable transceiver may be given a fixed number of codes. For example the additional trainable transceiver may be given two codes one to open a garage door and one to close a garage door. This may allow the second trainable transceiver to send an activation signal with a first code which the device receives and then the device advances the roll to a new code. The second trainable transceiver may have another code which corresponds to the next code in the roll such that the second code of the second trainable transceiver matches the new code of the device and the second trainable transceiver may send an activation code with the correct rolling code value to control the device.

Referring now to the mobile communications device running an application may be used in conjunction with the trainable transceiver to control and or otherwise communicate with the home electronics device remote device and or other device. The trainable transceiver and mobile communications device may communicate using more or more of the techniques described herein. For example the trainable transceiver and mobile communications device may communicate using BLE transceivers and a Bluetooth protocol.

Referring now to the application running on the mobile communications device may be used to send an activation signal to and or otherwise communicate with the home electronics device remote device and or other device. A user may provide an input to the application using a graphical user interface e.g. buttons fields menus etc. . The input may correspond to controlling a device. For example a user may push a button to turn on lights at the user s home. In response to the input the mobile communications device may transmit instructions and or information to the trainable transceiver . The trainable transceiver may send an activation signal based on the instructions and or information received causing the control function associated with the user input received by the application. Continuing the example the trainable transceiver may receive the instruction to turn on the lights and format and send an activation signal to the lighting device associated with the user input. The device may receive the activation signal and or other information and be controlled according to the user input received by the application on the mobile communications device . In other embodiments the application and or mobile communications device may control and or communicate with the home electronics device remote device and or other device without the trainable transceiver . One or more of the communication techniques described herein may be used in conjunction or in place of those described above. For example an application programming interface API messaging techniques e.g. SMS message e mail etc. push notifications IP communication cellular communication and or other techniques software and hardware may be used by the mobile communications device with or without the trainable transceiver such that the application may control a device.

Referring now to the trainable transceiver may be used to control the application running on the mobile communications device which in turn controls the home electronics device remote device and or other device based on the input received from the trainable transceiver . Advantageously this may allow a vehicle occupant to control a device using the application on the mobile communications device without taking the mobile communications device out of a pocket or otherwise looking at the mobile communications device . The controls of the trainable transceiver may be more conveniently located e.g. on a headliner or rear view mirror for use while operating a vehicle. A user may provide an input to the trainable transceiver e.g. by pushing a button corresponding to a particular device speaking a voice command etc. . The trainable transceiver may communicate an instruction and or information based on the input received. For example the trainable transceiver may communicate an instruction for the application to take a particular acting using a Bluetooth protocol.

The application may receive the instruction and or information via the mobile communications device . In some embodiments an API may be used in order to coordinate communication between the trainable transceiver and the application . In response to the communication from the trainable transceiver the application may take further action to control and or otherwise communicate with a device. The application may cause the mobile communications device to send an activation signal and or otherwise communicate with the device associated with the input received by the trainable transceiver . The application may take this action based on the instructions and or information received from the trainable transceiver . For example the application and or mobile communication device may send an activation signal to the home electronics device using one or more of the communication techniques described herein e.g. via the internet using messaging such as SMS messaging or e mail using a cellular transceiver etc. . The home electronics device may receive the activation signal and be controlled according to the user input received by the trainable transceiver .

In some embodiments the above described techniques with reference to may be used to control applications on the mobile communications device unrelated to controlling the home electronics device or remote device . For example the trainable transceiver may receive a user input which the trainable transceiver communicate to a particular application running on the mobile communications device e.g. a camera application . The application may receive the user input from the trainable transceiver in the form of instructions and or information transmitted by the trainable transceiver . An API may be used to facilitate communication between the mobile communication device and the trainable transceiver . In response to the instruction and or information received the application may be controlled take and action and or otherwise be manipulated according to the instructions and or information.

One or more security features may be used in conjunction with the transfer of information from a first trainable transceiver to a second trainable transceiver. In one embodiment a time limit is placed on the transfer of information such that the transfer must be initiated within the time limit or information will not be transferred. This technique may be used in embodiments where information may be transferred using the mobile communications device . For example the application on the mobile communications device may be used to receive the information from the first trainable transceiver. The application may automatically erase the information from memory included in the mobile communication device upon the expiration of a set time period from when the information was received. For example the time period may be ten minutes. The application may communicate this time limit to a user e.g. display a prompt on the display of the mobile communications device such as you have 10 minutes to transfer to the next vehicle . If the transfer to the second trainable transceiver is initiated within the set time period the information may be transferred to the second trainable transceiver. Once the transfer is complete the mobile communications device e.g. using the application may erase the information from memory.

Generally and with reference to the above disclosure related to transferring information a biometric authentication may be required to transfer information from a first trainable transceiver to a second trainable transceiver using the mobile communications device in some embodiments. For example the application on the mobile communications device may require the user to have his or her fingerprint scanned by a fingerprint reader or other device included in the mobile communications device . The biometric authentication input may be required prior to the mobile communications device receiving the information from the first trainable transceiver. Alternatively or additionally the biometric authentication input may be required prior to the mobile communications device transferring the information to the second trainable transceiver. Other biometric authentication inputs may be used in place of or in conjunction with fingerprints. For example biometric inputs may include an image of the user s face e.g. for facial recognition palm print DNA image of the user s eye e.g. for iris recognition etc. In other embodiments a password may be used instead. The biometric authentication input and or password may be compared e.g. using a control circuit and or algorithm to a corresponding reference stored in memory of the mobile communications device . The application running on the mobile communications device may require a user to input a biometric and or password reference upon setup of the application pairing with a trainable transceiver and or at other points in time or in response to other triggers. In other embodiments the reference may be stored in and or compared with one or more of a trainable transceiver the cloud and or other hardware and software. Advantageously one or more of the security features described herein may help to keep information related to home electronics devices remote devices and or other devices secure. This may prevent unauthorized and or unintended users from controlling a device using an activation signal.

In some embodiments the trainable transceiver may connect to the mobile communications device e.g. using Bluetooth and or connect to or otherwise interface with the application associated with the home electronics device remote device and or other device running on the mobile communications device . For example an application programming interface API additional application and or other software or communication technique may be used to allow the trainable transceiver to communicate with the application associated with the home electronics device e.g. garage door opener running on the mobile communications device in communication with the trainable transceiver . This may allow the trainable transceiver to control the application . For example the trainable transceiver may receive an input which causes the trainable transceiver to communicate with the application and trigger a function of the application . In embodiments where the application is capable of controlling an associated device e.g. sending commands using the internet to the device the trainable transceiver may use communication with application to control the device using the application . For example a user may provide an input on the trainable transceiver which the trainable transceiver uses in conjunction with an API and communication with the mobile communications device to control the application such that the application is used to open or close a garage door opener. In further embodiments the trainable transceiver receives information from the home electronics device remote device and or other device through the application associated with the device on the mobile communications device . For example the home electronics device may provide information e.g. status information to the application running on the mobile communications device . The trainable transceiver may be in communication with the mobile communications device and may receive this information from the application e.g. using an API . The trainable transceiver may then convey the information to a user e.g. by displaying the information using a display .

In further embodiments the trainable transceiver may be temporarily disabled. For example a user may temporarily disable the trainable transceiver when lending their vehicle including the trainable transceiver to another person e.g. lending the vehicle to a friend having the vehicle parked by a valet etc. . In one embodiment the mobile communications device and or application running thereon may transmit an instruction to the trainable transceiver to enable or disable the trainable transceiver . Disabling the trainable transceiver may be or include preventing the transmission of signals using a transceiver circuit preventing access to one or more activation signal parameters and or otherwise preventing the trainable transceiver from sending activation signals and or communicating with a device. Enabling the trainable transceiver may reverse the effects of disabling the trainable transceiver . In some embodiments the enabling or disabling the trainable transceiver may require a user to provide the trainable transceiver with a security code. For example the user may enter a security code on the mobile communications device in communication with the trainable transceiver . In other embodiments the user may enter the security code on the trainable transceiver .

In further embodiments the mobile communications device may transfer information to another mobile communications device using a combination of accelerometers and a wireless communication technique. For example the mobile communications device may acquire activation signal parameters training information and or other information related to the home electronics device remote device and or other device using one or more of the techniques described herein. The first mobile communications device which has acquired the information may transfer the information to a second mobile communications device. For example the information may be transferred using NFC transceivers and an NFC protocol. In some embodiments a user may be required to bump the two mobile communications devices such that an accelerometer in one or more of the mobile communications devices may register a bump and allow for transfer of the information. Advantageously this input to the accelerometer may be used as a security feature which requires the two mobile communications devices to be bumped together prior to the transfer of the information. This may ensure that the transfer is intended based on the two devices being in close proximity and a near simultaneous acceleration experienced by both devices. Other communication techniques and or security actions may be used in order to transfer information form a first mobile communications device to a second communications device. In further embodiments the same or similar techniques may be used in order to transfer information from the trainable transceiver and or remote user interface module of the trainable transceiver to the mobile communications device .

In further embodiments the mobile communications device may be used to send an instruction to the trainable transceiver to send an activation signal to a particular device. For example a user may select a device to control using the application on the mobile communications device . The mobile communications device may send an instruction based on this input to the trainable transceiver e.g. using Bluetooth communication between the mobile communications device and the trainable transceiver . The trainable transceiver may send an activation signal in response to the instruction. In some embodiments the mobile communications device may transmit additional information to the trainable transceiver such as activation signal parameters training information and or other information related to the home electronics device remote device and or other device. The trainable transceiver may act as a transmitter only rather than a transceiver e.g. the transceiver circuit may be a transmitter circuit for transmitting to a device. The trainable transceiver may include an additional transceiver e.g. Bluetooth transceiver to allow communication with the mobile communications device but include only a transmitter circuit for transmitting to the home electronics device remote device and or other device.

In further embodiments the mobile communications device may be used to train the trainable transceiver without a user providing an input on the trainable transceiver . For example a user may input information into the application of the mobile communications device having been paired to the trainable transceiver and or otherwise in communication with the trainable transceiver . The mobile communications device may use one or more of the techniques described herein to retrieve information such as activation signal parameters training information and or other information related to the home electronics device remote device and or other device. The mobile communications device may transmit this information to the trainable transceiver using one or more techniques described herein. Using the information received and or in response to an instruction received the trainable transceiver may configure itself or otherwise be configured to control a device using an activation signal e.g. the trainable transceiver is trained based on the information received from the mobile communications device . Thus the trainable transceiver may be trained without first receiving a user input on the trainable transceiver . In some embodiments this function may be facilitated by one or more additional features or functions. For example the communication from the mobile communications device may have an instruction header or other information which causes the trainable transceiver to enter a training mode prior to processing the information received from the mobile communications device . In some embodiments the trainable transceiver may send a communication to the mobile communications device after being trained to confirm that the training occurred. The communication may be used to or cause the mobile communications device to display a confirmation message to a user that the trainable transceiver has been trained.

The construction and arrangement of the systems and methods as shown in the various exemplary embodiments are illustrative only. Although only a few embodiments have been described in detail in this disclosure many modifications are possible e.g. variations in sizes dimensions structures shapes and proportions of the various elements values of parameters mounting arrangements use of materials colors orientations etc. . For example the position of elements may be reversed or otherwise varied and the nature or number of discrete elements or positions may be altered or varied. Accordingly all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of the present disclosure. The order or sequence of any process or method steps may be varied or re sequenced according to alternative embodiments. Other substitutions modifications changes and omissions may be made in the design operating conditions and arrangement of the exemplary embodiments without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

The present disclosure contemplates methods systems and program products on any machine readable media for accomplishing various operations. The embodiments of the present disclosure may be implemented using existing computer processors or by a special purpose computer processor for an appropriate system incorporated for this or another purpose or by a hardwired system. Embodiments within the scope of the present disclosure include program products comprising machine readable media for carrying or having machine executable instructions or data structures stored thereon. Such machine readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer or other machine with a processor. By way of example such machine readable media can comprise RAM ROM EPROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of machine executable instructions or data structures and which can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer or other machine with a processor. When information is transferred or provided over a network or another communications connection either hardwired wireless or a combination of hardwired or wireless to a machine the machine properly views the connection as a machine readable medium. Thus any such connection is properly termed a machine readable medium. Combinations of the above are also included within the scope of machine readable media. Machine executable instructions include for example instructions and data which cause a general purpose computer special purpose computer or special purpose processing machines to perform a certain function or group of functions.

Although the figures show a specific order of method steps the order of the steps may differ from what is depicted. Also two or more steps may be performed concurrently or with partial concurrence. Such variation will depend on the software and hardware systems chosen and on designer choice. All such variations are within the scope of the disclosure. Likewise software implementations could be accomplished with standard programming techniques with rule based logic and other logic to accomplish the various connection steps processing steps comparison steps and decision steps.

