---

title: Adjustable and foldable shoulder rest for violin or viola
abstract: An adjustable and foldable shoulder rest for a violin or viola includes a shoulder-engaging body having first and second foldable forks at first and second ends of the body for attaching to the violin or viola, first and second slidable end members for supporting the first and second forks, the first and second slidable end members being slidable between retracted and extended position. In the extended position, the end member is cantilevered beyond its respective slot. The shoulder rest may have a foam cushion with openings attached to the shoulder-engaging side of the shoulder rest. The end members may define rotational housings for receiving respective rotatable drums that receive threaded stems of the forks, thereby enabling the height of the forks to be adjusted and further enabling the forks to fold.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09502016&OS=09502016&RS=09502016
owner: THE KUN SHOULDER REST INC.
number: 09502016
owner_city: Ottawa
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20151123
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 535 178 which was filed on Nov. 6 2014 entitled ADJUSTABLE AND FOLDABLE SHOULDER REST FOR VIOLIN OR VIOLA which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

A shoulder rest is an accessory device that can be attached to a violin or viola. Typically the shoulder rest has fork shaped clamping members or feet for detachably mounting the shoulder rest to the sides of the back of the violin or viola. The shoulder rest spaces the instrument at a comfortable height for the musician. The shoulder rest may have a body profile that generally conforms to the natural curves of the human shoulder and clavicle.

To accommodate both instruments of different sizes and musicians body structures and posture preferences some shoulder rests are adjustable in height and distance between the fork shaped clamping members.

Some examples of adjustable shoulder rests are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 270 474 Kun entitled Violin or the Like Shoulder Rest U.S. Pat. No. 5 419 226 Kun entitled Violin Shoulder Rest U.S. Pat. No. 5 567 893 Kun entitled Shoulder Rest for Violin or Like Instrument U.S. Pat. No. 6 031 163 Cullum et al. entitled Adjustable Shoulder Rest for Violins or the Like U.S. Pat. No. 7 265 284 Muir et al entitled Violin or the Like Instrument which are all incorporated herein by reference.

To permit more compact storage some shoulder rests are foldable or collapsible such as the one disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 731 531 Kun entitled Shoulder Rest for Violin or Like Instrument which is incorporated herein by reference.

The body or bridge of the shoulder rest may be made of different materials such as polymers composite materials metals or woods. U.S. Pat. No. 6 291 750 Farha entitled Bridge for a Violin or Viola Shoulder Rest which is incorporated herein by reference discloses a body or bridge made of a laminate that includes a plurality of wood veneers.

Other improvements in shoulder rest ergonomics are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 7 385 124 Clemente entitled Clamping Member for a Violin Shoulder Rest which is incorporated herein by reference.

Although adjustable and foldable shoulder rests are known in the art further improvements in adjustability and ergonomics remain highly desirable.

The present invention provides a novel shoulder rest that is adjustable and foldable. The shoulder rest includes two independently operable pull tab adjustment mechanisms for independently adjusting i.e. extending or retracting the foldable forks. On its shoulder engaging side the shoulder rest has a foam cushion with openings. The forks of the shoulder rest are rotationally mounted to drums encapsulated with slidable end members. Other features and aspects of the invention are described below in the detailed description and are illustrated in the accompanying drawings.

Accordingly one inventive aspect of the present disclosure is an adjustable and foldable shoulder rest for a violin or viola. The shoulder rest comprises a shoulder engaging body having a first end and a second end the body also having a shoulder engaging side and an instrument facing side. The shoulder rest comprises a first foldable fork shaped clamping member disposed at the first end for clamping the violin or viola wherein the clamping member is foldable from an engaged position to a folded position. The shoulder rest comprises a second foldable fork shaped clamping member disposed at a second end for clamping the violin or viola wherein the clamping member is foldable from an unfolded position to a folded position. The shoulder rest comprises a first slidable end member for receiving a threaded stem that supports the first clamping member the first slidable end member being slidable between a retracted position and an extended position the first slidable end member also having an arcuate channel through which the stem rotates as the clamping member is pivoted between the unfolded and folded positions wherein the first slidable end member is slidable within a first slot in the instrument facing side of the body to extend or retract the first clamping member. The shoulder rest comprises a second slidable end member for supporting the second clamping member the second slidable end member being slidable between a retracted position and an extended position the second slidable end member also having an arcuate channel through which the stem rotates as the clamping member is pivoted between the unfolded and folded positions wherein the second slidable end member is slidable within a second slot in the instrument facing side of the body to extend or retract the second clamping member. The first slidable end member comprises a first protrusion shaped to engage one of a first plurality of apertures disposed in the first slot and the second slidable end member comprises a second protrusion shaped to engage one of a second plurality of apertures disposed in the second slot.

Another inventive aspect of the present disclosure is a shoulder rest for a bowed string instrument the shoulder rest comprising a shoulder engaging body having a shoulder engaging side and an instrument facing side a first foldable fork for attaching to the instrument wherein the fork is foldable from an unfolded position to a folded position and a second foldable fork for attaching to the instrument wherein the fork is foldable from an unfolded position to a folded position. The shoulder rest comprises a first slidable end member for receiving a stem that supports the first fork the first slidable end member being slidable between a retracted position and an extended cantilevered position the first slidable end member also having an arcuate channel through which the stem rotates as the fork is pivoted between the unfolded and folded positions wherein the first slidable end member is slidable within a first slot in the instrument facing side of the body to extend or retract the first fork. The shoulder rest comprises a second slidable end member for supporting the second fork the second slidable end member being slidable between a retracted position and an extended cantilevered position the second slidable end member also having an arcuate channel through which the stem rotates as the fork is pivoted between the unfolded and folded positions wherein the second slidable end member is slidable within a second slot in the instrument facing side of the body to extend or retract the second fork. The first slidable end member comprises a first protrusion adapted to engage one of a first plurality of apertures disposed in the first slot. The second slidable end member comprises a second protrusion adapted to engage one of a second plurality of apertures disposed in the second slot.

Yet another inventive aspect of the present disclosure is a shoulder rest for a violin or viola the shoulder rest comprising a shoulder engaging body having a first end and a second end the body also having a shoulder engaging side and an instrument facing side a first foldable fork attachable to the violin or viola and foldable from an unfolded position to a folded position and a second foldable fork attachable to the violin or viola and foldable from an unfolded position to a folded position. The shoulder rest includes a first slidable end member for receiving a threaded stem that supports the first fork the first slidable end member being slidable between a retracted position and an extended position the first slidable end member also having an arcuate channel through which the stem rotates as the first fork is pivoted between the unfolded and folded positions wherein the first slidable end member is slidable within a first slot in the instrument facing side of the body to extend or retract the first fork. The shoulder rest further includes a second slidable end member for supporting the second fork the second slidable end member being slidable between a retracted position and an extended position the second slidable end member also having an arcuate channel through which the stem rotates as the second fork is pivoted between the unfolded and folded positions wherein the second slidable end member is slidable within a second slot in the instrument facing side of the body to extend or retract the fork. The shoulder rest further includes a foam cushion disposed on the shoulder engaging side. The foam cushion may comprise an optional plurality of openings.

Yet another inventive aspect of the present disclosure is a shoulder rest for a violin or viola the shoulder rest comprising a shoulder engaging body having a first end and a second end the body also having a shoulder engaging side and an instrument facing side a first foldable fork attachable to the violin or viola and foldable from an unfolded position to a folded position and a second foldable fork attachable to the violin or viola and foldable from an unfolded position to a folded position. The shoulder rest comprises a first slidable end member for receiving a threaded stem that supports the first fork the first slidable end member being slidable between a retracted position and an extended position the first slidable end member also having an arcuate channel through which the stem rotates as the first fork is pivoted between the unfolded and folded positions wherein the first slidable end member is slidable within a first slot in the instrument facing side of the body to extend or retract the first fork. The shoulder rest includes a first rotatable drum encapsulated within a rotational housing of the first slidable end member. The shoulder rest includes a second slidable end member for supporting the second fork the second slidable end member being slidable between a retracted position and an extended position the second slidable end member also having an arcuate channel through which the stem rotates as the second fork is pivoted between the unfolded and folded positions wherein the second slidable end member is slidable within a second slot in the instrument facing side of the body to extend or retract the fork. The shoulder rest includes a second rotatable drum encapsulated within a rotational housing of the second slidable end member.

This summary is provided to highlight certain significant inventive aspects but is not intended to be an exhaustive or limiting definition of all inventive aspects of the disclosure. Other inventive aspects may be disclosed in the detailed description and drawings.

It will be noted that throughout the appended drawings like features are identified by like reference numerals.

The shoulder rest depicted in is adjustable to increase or decrease the distance between the forks . The shoulder rest includes a pair of adjustment mechanisms to adjust the distance between the forks. Each adjustment mechanism in the shoulder rest of includes a slidable end member having respective pull tab adjustable sliders actuated by lifting pull tabs . The adjustment mechanism enables the slidable end members shoulder end member and clavicle end member to slide in slots relative to the base . In this manner the end members may be extended or retracted. In the end members are shown fully retracted. shows the end members partially extended. When partially or fully extended the end members are also said to be cantilevered as shown in . The slidable end members have encapsulated drums that rotationally support the forks as will be described in greater detail below.

As depicted in the body bridge is asymmetrical. Viewed from above in the body curves laterally i.e. bends to one side while the width generally increases from the clavicle end toward the shoulder end except for a rounding off at the shoulder end. Likewise when viewed from above in it is apparent that the slots or slide paths are at an angle relative to each other i.e. they are not parallel or aligned with each other . Accordingly the tongue shaped sliders are not parallel or aligned with each other as shown in .

As illustrated in the shoulder end member is shorter in height than the clavicle end member . Viewed from the side in the body curves upwardly from the clavicle end to the shoulder end. The shoulder end is convex and the clavicle end is concave as shown in . The shoulder end member is convex to match the curvature of the convex shoulder end. The clavicle end member is concave to match the curvature of the concave clavicle end. More specifically the first slot at the shoulder end is convex whereas the second slot at the clavicle end is concave. The sliding movement of the shoulder end member follows an arcuate generally convex path. The sliding movement of the clavicle end member follows an arcuate generally concave path. When viewed from the side in it is apparent that these paths are at an angle relative to each other i.e. they are not parallel or aligned .

As further illustrated in the forks are preloaded so that they clamp or grip the violin or viola with a desired gripping or clamping force. The angle of pitch of the forks determines the amount of preload. The angle of the fork changes i.e. opens when the forks are mounted to the violin or viola. In other words when attached to the instrument the angle of the forks is greater more open relative to their unattached posture. This angle of pitch varies as the forks are extended or retracted relative to the body.

Because the tongue shaped sliders slide in the recessed slots the sliders are flush with the body as can be seen in . In other words the top curved surfaces of the sliders of each of the end members is flush with the base member for an embellished appearance.

In the embodiment illustrated in the shoulder rest further comprises a foam cushion or pad attached to the instrument facing side of the body bridge to provide a cushioned or padded shoulder rest.

As depicted in the foam cushion may optionally include a plurality of apertures openings or holes . The openings may be die cut or manufactured using another technique. The foam cushion with openings provides a number of advantages. The openings make the foam cushion lighter. The openings provide more traction on the shoulder to prevent the shoulder rest from slipping on the shoulder. In other words the openings provide an enhanced grip. The openings in the cushion also embellish the appearance of the shoulder rest. The cushion may be made of NBS neoprene polychloroprene or other equivalent synthetic rubbers sponges or foams. The openings may be elongated openings as shown in the figures. The openings may be elongated and curved with the curvature increasing from the ends towards the middle. Other shapes and sizes of openings may be substituted.

As noted above the shoulder rest is both adjustable and foldable. depicts the shoulder rest with its forks retracted and unfolded in an engaged unfolded posture for mounting or clamping to a violin or viola whereas depicts the forks extended or cantilevered. The forks are independently adjustable and independently foldable or collapsible . are isometric views of the shoulder rest in the retracted and extended positions. The forks may be folded for storage or transport. show the forks folded.

In this illustrated embodiment the fork shaped clamping members or forks are asymmetric. The forks are also rotatable in this illustrated embodiment. In the illustrated embodiment the forks are threaded onto threaded stems shown in that permit the forks to be raised or lowered and that also permit the forks to be rotated relative to the base. The forks can also be folded or unfolded i.e. closed or opened .

To recap the shoulder rest further includes a first slidable end member for receiving a threaded stem that supports the first clamping member the first slidable end member being slidable between a retracted position and an extended position the first slidable end member also having an arcuate channel or slot through which the stem rotates as the clamping member is pivoted between the unfolded and folded positions. The first slidable end member is slidable within a first slot in the instrument facing side of the bridge to extend or retract the first clamping member relative to the bridge. Likewise the shoulder rest further includes a second slidable end member for supporting the second clamping member the second slidable end member being slidable between a retracted position and an extended position the second slidable end member also having an arcuate channel through which the stem rotates as the clamping member is pivoted between the unfolded and folded positions wherein the second slidable end member is slidable within a second slot in the instrument facing side of the bridge to extend or retract the second clamping member relative to the bridge.

In the illustrated embodiment there is no locking mechanism to lock the forks in the folded or unfolded postures. However in other embodiments there may be a locking mechanism to lock the forks in the folded or unfolded postures. Alternatively there may be an indexing or friction fit for the fork folding mechanism.

The shoulder rest is thus adjustable by extending or retracting the forks. The forks are also rotatable as noted above to provide further adjustability. When extended the slidable end members and their respective forks are cantilevered. When fully extended cantilevered there is some lateral and or torsional play or tolerance to provide a further degree of adjustability. In other words when extended cantilevered the slidable end members may twist to fit the instrument and or may twist when torque is applied to the attached shoulder rest.

The first slidable end member comprises a first protrusion shaped to engage one of a first plurality of apertures disposed in the first slot. Similarly the second slidable end member comprises a second protrusion shaped to engage one of a second plurality of apertures disposed in the second slot.

In the illustrated embodiment the first plurality of apertures comprises transverse grooves disposed substantially orthogonally to an axis of sliding motion of the first support member within the first slot and wherein the second plurality of apertures comprises transverse grooves disposed substantially orthogonally to an axis of sliding motion of the second support member within the second slot and wherein the protrusion is a transverse rib shaped to engage one of the transverse grooves. The transverse grooves are disposed only in an inward half of each slot in the illustrated embodiment.

In the illustrated embodiment each of the first and second slidable end members comprises a pull tab unlocking member that flexes when pulled away from the slot to disengage the protrusion from the aperture the pull tab unlocking member being elastically biased to return to an unflexed posture against the slot. In the illustrated embodiment the pull tab unlocking member comprises an elongated tab terminating in a curved rounded tip that curves away from the slot. The tab has a tab thickness less than a slidable end member thickness and the tab has a tab width less than a slidable end member width.

The body or bridge may have a chamfer along the sides of the body as illustrated in . The chamfered body makes it easier to hold and manipulate the body and also embellishes the appearance of the body. The body has first and second slots having a plurality of apertures e.g. transverse grooves . These may be disposed on a forward innermost half of the slot. A pair of guide lips or grooves extend along the sides of the slot to retain the tongue shaped slider.

The underside has a cavity C. Two protuberances are provided for snap connection to sockets shown in . The underside view of also shows the protrusion .

The structure of the clavicle end member is similar and analogous to that of the shoulder end member as can be seen from . The clavicle end member has the pull tab channels side edge lips with rounded front rotational housing defining the bore B and first and second arcuate slots . In the underside view of there is a cavity C and protuberances for snap connection to sockets of cover plate shown in . A retainer guide fin retains and guides the drum. The fin is taller than fin . The exterior face of the clavicle end member retaining plate is smooth as shown in .

As depicted in the cylindrical drum like component drum has concave sides with which to hold the drum between a finger and a thumb. As shown in the drum has recessed concave side surfaces. In other embodiments the concave drum may be replaced with another suitable rotating element that achieves the same or similar kinematics. The drum is encapsulated within a respective end member slidable support member . The drum has a bore for the stem and an arcuate slot

As depicted in the shoulder rest has the same body and foam cushion as was described above. Likewise the shoulder rest has one fork with tines prongs or fingers at the shoulder end and another fork with tines prongs or fingers at the clavicle end. The shoulder end member has a tongue shaped slider . The clavicle end member has a tongue shaped slider . A first thumbscrew fastens the first tongue shaped slider in place on the shoulder end. Similarly a second thumbscrew fastens the second tongue shaped slider in place on the shoulder end. These thumbscrew adjustment mechanisms are an alternative to the pull tab adjustment mechanisms described in the first embodiment.

The embodiments of the invention described above are intended to be exemplary only. As will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art to whom this specification is addressed many obvious variations modifications and refinements can be made to the embodiments presented herein without departing from the inventive concept s disclosed herein. The scope of the exclusive right sought by the applicant s is therefore intended to be limited solely by the appended claims.

