---

title: On-chip diffraction grating prepared by crystallographic wet-etch
abstract: Methods of forming microelectronic structures are described. Embodiments of those methods may include forming a photomask on a (110) silicon wafer substrate, wherein the photomask comprises a periodic array of parallelogram openings, and then performing a timed wet etch on the (110) silicon wafer substrate to form a diffraction grating structure that is etched into the (110) silicon wafer substrate.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09360601&OS=09360601&RS=09360601
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 09360601
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150302
---
This Application is a continuation and claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 075 422 filed on Mar. 30 2011 and entitled ON CHIP DIFFRACTION GRATING PREPARED BY CRYSTALLOGRAPHIC WET ETCH. The disclosure of the prior Application is considered part of and is incorporated by reference in the disclosure of this Application.

This invention was made with Government support under H98230 08 3 0011 awarded by Department of Defense. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

A Diffraction gratings DG is an important optical devices widely used in applications where dispersing wavelengths are required. In free space optics DG s are usually fabricated by either mechanically burnishing the grooves onto a substrate or by reactive ion beam etching the holographic pattern developed by two beam interference. In waveguide optics DG s have been fabricated by utilizing standard photolithographic and etching techniques.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings that show by way of illustration the specific embodiments which may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the embodiments. It is to be understood that the various embodiments although different are not necessarily mutually exclusive. For example a particular feature structure or characteristic described herein in connection with one embodiment may be implemented within other embodiments without departing from their spirit and scope. In addition it is to be understood that the location or arrangement of individual elements within each disclosed embodiment may be modified without departing from their spirit and scope. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the embodiments is defined only by the appended claims appropriately interpreted along with the full range of equivalents to which the claims are entitled. In the drawings like numerals refer to the same or similar functionality throughout the several views.

Methods and associated structures of forming and utilizing microelectronic structures such as a diffraction grating structures are described. Those methods and structures may include forming a photomask on a 110 silicon wafer substrate wherein the photomask comprises a periodic array of parallelogram openings and then performing a timed wet etch on the 110 silicon wafer substrate to form a diffraction grating structure that is etched into the 110 silicon wafer substrate. Various embodiments described herein enable the fabrication of plane diffraction gratings comprising ultra high optical qualities.

In an embodiment the 110 substrate may be used to fabricate an on chip DG wherein the grooves of the DG may be formed by etching the grooves into the substrate itself by using a wet etchant for example. In an embodiment a crystallographic etchant may be applied to the 110 substrate . For example wet etchants such as but not limited to KOH potassium hydroxide EDP ethylene diamene pyrocatechol TMAH tetramethylammoniumhydroxide or NH4OH ammonium hydroxide may be applied to the 110 substrate .

Upon application of the wet etchant to the 110 substrate the 111 planes of the 110 substrate form an etch stop because of the high atomic density in the directions. In an embodiment the wet etchant may perform an anisotropic etch which may be slower in the planes of the 111 silicon substrate and create vertical sidewalls. In an embodiment by utilizing an appropriately designed photomask pattern such as by using a photomask comprising a periodic array of parallelograms a sawtooth grating structure with perfectly smooth vertical sidewalls can be crystallographically wet etched into the substrate . In an embodiment a groove shaped diffraction grating may be formed etched into the substrate which may comprise a plane DG in some cases such as an Echelle grating structure for example.

In an embodiment diffraction grating structures formed by the etching process can be categorized into two cases a grating structure with a 70.6 degree angle between arms and another grating structure with a 109.4 degree 109 angle between arms . In an embodiment the blazed angles of the diffraction grating structures can be controlled by adjusting the lengths of arms and in . In an embodiment the angles and of the gratings may be between the arms and respectively. In an embodiment the arms and of the diffraction grating structures may comprise a sawtooth structure.

In an embodiment the diffraction grating structures depicted in may be used as a reflection grating wherein a metal reflective coating may be formed on the vertical sidewalls of the sawteeth structures of the diffraction grating structures and or an incident angle larger than the total internal reflection angle can be used with the diffraction gratings wherein the transmission loss of the diffraction grating structures may be significantly reduced.

The preparation of a photomask pattern is important for the formation of the diffraction grating structures depicted in . For example the arm lengths and of may be adjusted by the design of the photomask and thus the angles of the diffraction grating structures may be controlled. In an embodiment a photomask may be formed on a 110 substrate similar to the substrate of wherein the photomask may comprise a periodic array of parallelograms .

In an embodiment there may be a gap between individual parallelograms of the parallelogram array of the photomask . In an embodiment a timed etch process may be performed on the photomasked substrate utilizing a wet etch chemical such as but not limited to one of the wet etch chemicals described previously herein to form a diffraction grating . The diffraction grating may comprise arm lengths and an angle between the arms wherein the arm lengths may be defined the photomask design.

In an embodiment the diffraction grating structure may comprise a first side and a second side . In an embodiment the second side of the etched diffraction grating structure may be removed using a dry etch process for example but a wet etch may be used in other cases . In another embodiment the first side may be removed from the diffraction grating structure . Removal of either the first or second sides of the diffraction grating structure may be desired for applications wherein a light source may be incoming incident from the ambient air such as when the diffraction grating structure may be utilized in free space optical systems.

The diffraction grating structure may comprise two major advantages. First the sidewalls of the diffraction grating structure may be substantially perfectly 90 straight and may comprise a sidewall angle of about 90 degrees in an embodiment with negligible surface roughness because of the crystallographic wet etch . Such an advantage is especially significant for creating a large active area such as when a very deep etch depth is required. Secondly even in the case when the sharpness of a sawtooth structure adjacent arms with an angle between on the photomask cannot be defined perfectly the resultant etched corner will nevertheless be extremely sharp. Such an advantage is especially significant when a high groove density is used such as when the corner feature size is comparable to or smaller than the lithography resolution.

Prior art large area DGs are routinely fabricated by either mechanically burnishing the grooves onto a substrate or by reactive ion beam etching a holographic pattern developed by two beam interference for example. When integrating with waveguide based optoelectronics diffraction gratings such as Echelle gratings for example are commonly used and fabricated by standard photolithography along with dry etch. Such prior art approaches will result in undesired properties such as rough surface slanted sidewalls and blunt corners which may seriously degrade the diffraction grating device optical quality. Because the grooves of the prior art diffraction grating waveguides are prepared by dry etch techniques where rough surfaces slanted sidewalls and blunt corners typically occur such prior art waveguides typically exhibit higher than expected insertion loss especially for 10 micron to 30 micron large core waveguides.

Benefits of the diffraction grating structure include enabling the formation of on chip plane DGs wherein the crystallographic wet etching of a 110 silicon wafer can define plane DGs with ultra high optical quality. Wet etching of the 110 silicon substrate enables the fabrication of a 90 straight sidewall for the plane DG of the various embodiments herein. Thus the formation of plane DGs with straight and smooth sidewalls are enabled. For example Echelle gratings for use in coarse wave length division multiplexing CWDM applications may be formed according to the various embodiments included herein. Because the grooves are prepared by wet etch techniques DGs of the various embodiments exhibit lower insertion loss especially for 10 micron to 30 micron large core waveguides thus enabling the fabrication of ideal Echelle gratings. Such grating structures will largely increase the total link budget since a major loss of silicon photonics link comes from multiplexer and demultiplexer components.

In an embodiment on chip collimators may be incorporated with the DGs of the various embodiments to perform wavelength selection in plane DG based multiplexer demultiplexer devices. For example a Czerny Turner configuration 2 collimators or a Fastie Ebert configuration 1 collimator may be employed as shown in showing ray trajectories . depicts a Czerny Turner configuration comprising a DG fabricated according to the embodiments herein and two collimators . A Fastie Ebert configuration comprising a DG fabricated according to the embodiments herein is depicted with a single collimator . A Fastie Ebert configuration comprising a DG fabricated according to the embodiments herein is depicted with a single collimator with a Littrow setting .

In an embodiment DG structures of the various embodiments herein may be formed on a silicon wafer as illustrated in and may comprise portions of individual integrated circuits on dies . The silicon wafer may be cut to separate the individual dies from each other as is known in the art. The individual dies comprising the DG structure such as the DG structures of for example may then become part of a microelectronic package assembly . The package assembly may comprise a die placed on a package substrate with solder balls in some embodiments but may comprise any type of package according to the particular application.

One or more of the components shown in system may include one or more diffraction gratings of the various embodiments included herein. For example processor or memory device or at least a portion of I O controller or a combination of these components may include in an integrated circuit package that includes at least one embodiment of the structures herein.

These elements perform their conventional functions well known in the art. In particular memory device may be used in some cases to provide long term storage for the executable instructions for a method for forming structures in accordance with some embodiments and in other embodiments may be used to store on a shorter term basis the executable instructions of a method for forming structures in accordance with embodiments during execution by processor . In addition the instructions may be stored or otherwise associated with machine accessible mediums communicatively coupled with the system such as compact disk read only memories CD ROMs digital versatile disks DVDs and floppy disks carrier waves and or other propagated signals for example. In one embodiment memory device may supply the processor with the executable instructions for execution.

System may include computers e.g. desktops laptops hand helds servers Web appliances routers etc. wireless communication devices e.g. cellular phones cordless phones pagers personal digital assistants etc. computer related peripherals e.g. printers scanners monitors etc. entertainment devices e.g. televisions radios stereos tape and compact disc players video cassette recorders camcorders digital cameras MP3 Motion Picture Experts Group Audio Layer 3 players video games watches etc. and the like.

Although the foregoing description has specified certain steps and materials that may be used in the embodiments those skilled in the art will appreciate that many modifications and substitutions may be made. Accordingly it is intended that all such modifications alterations substitutions and additions be considered to fall within the spirit and scope of the embodiments as defined by the appended claims. The Figures provided herein illustrate only portions of exemplary microelectronic structures that pertain to the practice of the embodiments. Thus the embodiments are not limited to the structures described herein.

