---

title: Systems and methods for stimulating cellular function in tissue
abstract: The invention generally relates to systems and methods for stimulating cellular function in biological tissue. In certain embodiments, the invention provides a method for stimulating cellular function within tissue that involves providing a first type of energy to a region of tissue, in which the first type is provided in an amount that inhibits cellular function within the region of tissue, and providing a second type of energy to the region of tissue, in which the second type is provided in an amount that facilitates cellular function within the region of tissue, wherein the combined effect stimulates cellular function within the tissue.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09623264&OS=09623264&RS=09623264
owner: Highland Instruments
number: 09623264
owner_city: Somerville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150505
---
This patent application is a continuation of U.S. nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 14 293 525 filed Jun. 2 2014 which is a continuation of U.S. nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 14 069 613 filed Nov. 1 2013 which is a continuation of U.S. nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 13 216 313 filed Aug. 24 2011 the content of each of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

This invention was made with Government support under Grant Number R43NS062530 awarded by the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke NINDS of the National Institute of Health NIH and Contract No. W31P4Q 09 C 0117 awarded by Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency DARPA . The Government has certain rights in this invention.

The invention generally relates to systems and methods for stimulating cellular function in biological tissue.

Stimulation of tissue in humans and other animals is used in a number of clinical applications as well as in clinical and general biological research. In particular stimulation of neural tissue has been used in the treatment of various diseases including Parkinson s disease depression and intractable pain. The stimulation may be applied invasively e.g. by performing surgery to remove a portion of the skull and implanting electrodes in a specific location within brain tissue or non invasively .e.g. transcranial direct current stimulation and transcranial magnetic stimulation.

The invention recognizes that a synergistic stimulation effect in a region of tissue may be achieved by combining a first type of energy that is provided in an amount that inhibits cellular function with a second type of energy that is provided in an amount that facilitates cellular function. Data herein show that the stimulatory effect is greater than the summed effect of the first and second amounts of energy provided to the region of tissue.

Accordingly methods of the invention involve providing a first type of energy to a region of tissue in which the first type is provided in an amount that inhibits cellular function within the region of tissue and providing a second type of energy to the region of tissue in which the second type is provided in an amount that facilitates cellular function within the region of tissue wherein the combined effect stimulates cellular function within the tissue. In certain embodiments the stimulatory effect is facilitatory to the cellular function within the tissue. In other embodiments the stimulatory effect is inhibitory to the cellular function within the tissue. The first and second types of energy may be provided simultaneously or sequentially.

Any energy sources known in the art may be used with systems of the invention. In certain embodiments the first energy source is an electric source that produces an electric field. The electric filed may be pulsed time varying pulsed a plurality of time with each pulse being for a different length of time or time invariant. In certain embodiments the second energy source is a source that produces a mechanical field such as an ultrasound device. The mechanical filed may be pulsed time varying or pulsed a plurality of time with each pulse being for a different length of time. In certain embodiments the electric field and or the mechanical field is focused. The other permutations are also attainable where the effect direction i.e. inhibitory or facilitatory is dependent on the electrical and or ultrasound source transducer parameters and or the electrical and or ultrasound field parameters.

The first and second energy sources may be applied to any tissue. In certain embodiments the first and second energy sources are applied to a structure or multiple structures within the brain or the nervous system such as the dorsal lateral prefrontal cortex any component of the basal ganglia nucleus accumbens gastric nuclei brainstem thalamus inferior colliculus superior colliculus periaqueductal gray primary motor cortex supplementary motor cortex occipital lobe Brodmann areas 1 48 primary sensory cortex primary visual cortex primary auditory cortex amygdala hippocampus cochlea cranial nerves cerebellum frontal lobe occipital lobe temporal lobe parietal lobe sub cortical structures and spinal cord. In particular embodiments the tissue is neural tissue and the affect of the stimulation alters neural function past the duration of stimulation.

Another aspect of the invention provides a system for stimulating cellular function within tissue that includes an ultrasound device configured to emit a mechanical field that inhibits cellular function within the region of tissue and an electric source configured to emit an electric field that facilitates cellular function within the region of tissue the system being configured such that the ultrasound device and the electric source target the same region of tissue and the combined effect stimulates cellular function in a facilitatory manner within the region of tissue. Similarly the ultrasound source could be provided in a facilitatory manner and the electrical source in an inhibitory manner such that the overall effect on cellular function is inhibitory. The other permutations are also attainable where the effect direction i.e. inhibitory or facilitatory is dependent on the electrical and or ultrasound source transducer parameters and or the electrical and or ultrasound field parameters.

It is envisioned that the present disclosure may be used to stimulate biological tissue in vivo comprising an electric source that is placed on and or in the body to generate an electric field and a means for altering the permittivity of tissue relative to the electric field whereby the alteration of the tissue permittivity relative to the electric field generates a displacement current in the tissue. The exemplary embodiments of the apparatuses and methods disclosed can be employed in the area of neural stimulation where amplified focused direction altered and or attenuated currents could be used to alter neural activity via directly stimulating neurons depolarizing neurons hyperpolarizing neurons modifying neural membrane potentials altering the level of neural cell excitability and or altering the likelihood of a neural cell firing. Likewise the method for stimulating biological tissue may also be employed in the area of muscular stimulation including cardiac stimulation where amplified focused direction altered and or attenuated currents could be used to alter muscular activity via direct stimulation depolarizing muscle cells hyperpolarizing muscle cells modifying membrane potentials altering the level of muscle cell excitability and or altering the likelihood of cell firing. Similarly it is envisioned that the present disclosure may be employed in the area of cellular metabolism physical therapy drug delivery and gene therapy. Furthermore stimulation methods described herein can result in or influence tissue growth such as promoting bone growth directing neural growth or regeneration and or interfering with a tumor .

Detailed embodiments of the present disclosure are disclosed herein however it is to be understood that the described embodiments are merely exemplary of the disclosure which may be embodied in various forms. Therefore specific functional details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting but merely as a basis for the claims and as a representative basis for teaching one skilled in the art to variously employ the present disclosure in virtually any appropriately detailed embodiment.

The components of the tissue stimulation method according to the present disclosure are fabricated from materials suitable for a variety medical applications such as for example polymerics gels films and or metals depending on the particular application and or preference. Semi rigid and rigid polymerics are contemplated for fabrication as well as resilient materials such as molded medical grade polyurethane as well as flexible or malleable materials. The motors gearing electronics power components electrodes and transducers of the method may be fabricated from those suitable for a variety of medical applications. The method according to the present disclosure may also include circuit boards circuitry processor components etc. for computerized control. One skilled in the art however will realize that other materials and fabrication methods suitable for assembly and manufacture in accordance with the present disclosure also would be appropriate.

The following discussion includes a description of the components and exemplary methods for generating currents in biological tissues in accordance with the principles of the present disclosure. Alternate embodiments are also disclosed. Reference will now be made in detail to the exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure illustrated in the accompanying figures wherein like reference numerals indicate the similar parts throughout the figures.

Turning now to which illustrates an exemplary embodiment of an apparatus to alter currents e.g. amplify focus alter direction and or attenuate in the presence of an applied electric field or applied current source by the combined application of a mechanical field within a biological material to stimulate the biological cells and or tissue in accordance with the present disclosure. For example the apparatus illustrated in according to the present disclosure may be applied to the area of neural stimulation. An initial source electric field results in a current in the tissue. The electric field is created by an electric source current or voltage source. As described in further detail below the permittivity of the tissue is altered relative to the electric field for example by a mechanical field thereby generating an additional displacement current.

Electrodes are applied to the scalp and generate a low magnitude electric field over a large brain region. While electrodes are used and applied to the scalp in this exemplary embodiment it is envisioned that the electrodes may be applied to a number of different areas on the body including areas around the scalp. It is also envisioned that one electrode may be placed proximal to the tissue being stimulated and the other distant such as one electrode on the scalp and one on the thorax. It is further envisioned that electric source could be mono polar with just a single electrode or multi polar with multiple electrodes. Similarly the electric source may be applied to tissue via any medically acceptable medium. It is also envisioned that means could be used where the electric source does not need to be in direct contact with the tissue such as for example inductive magnetic sources where the entire tissue region is placed within a large solenoid generating magnetic fields or near a coil generating magnetic fields where the magnetic fields induce electric currents in the tissue.

The electric source may be direct current DC or alternating current AC and may be applied inside or outside the tissue of interest. Additionally the source may be time varying. Similarly the source may be pulsed and may be comprised of time varying pulse forms. The source may be an impulse. Also the source according to the present disclosure may be intermittent.

A mechanical source such as an ultrasound source is applied on the scalp and provides concentrated acoustic energy i.e. mechanical field to a focused region of neural tissue affecting a smaller number of neurons than affected by the electric field by the mechanical field altering the tissue permittivity relative to the applied electric field and thereby generating the altered current . The mechanical source may be any acoustic source such as an ultrasound device. Generally such device may be a device composed of electromechanical transducers capable of converting an electrical signal to mechanical energy such as those containing piezoelectric materials a device composed of electromechanical transducers capable of converting an electrical signal to mechanical energy such as those in an acoustic speaker that implement electromagnets a device in which the mechanical source is coupled to a separate mechanical apparatus that drives the system or any similar device capable of converting chemical plasma electrical nuclear or thermal energy to mechanical energy and generating a mechanical field.

Furthermore the mechanical field could be generated via an ultrasound transducer that could be used for imaging tissue. The mechanical field may be coupled to tissue via a bridging medium such as a container of saline to assist in the focusing or through gels and or pastes which alter the acoustic impedance between the mechanical source and the tissue. The mechanical field may be time varying pulsed an impulse or may be comprised of time varying pulse forms. It is envisioned that the mechanical source may be applied inside or outside of the tissue of interest. There are no limitations as to the frequencies that can be applied via the mechanical source however exemplary mechanical field frequencies range from the sub kHZ to 1000s of MHz. Additionally multiple transducers providing multiple mechanical fields with similar or differing frequencies and or similar or different mechanical field waveforms may be used such as in an array of sources like those used in focused ultrasound arrays. Similarly multiple varied electric fields could also be applied. The combined fields electric and mechanical may be controlled intermittently to cause specific patterns of spiking activity or alterations in neural excitability. For example the device may produce a periodic signal at a fixed frequency or high frequency signals at a pulsed frequency to cause stimulation at pulse frequencies shown to be effective in treating numerous pathologies. Such stimulation waveforms may be those implemented in rapid or theta burst TMS treatments deep brain stimulation treatments epidural brain stimulation treatments spinal cord stimulation treatments or for peripheral electrical stimulation nerve treatments. The ultrasound source may be placed at any location relative to the electrode locations i.e. within on top of below or outside the same location as the electrodes as long as components of the electric field and mechanical field are in the same region. The locations of the sources should be relative to each other such that the fields intersect relative to the tissue and cells to be stimulated or to direct the current alteration relative to the cellular components being stimulated.

The apparatus and method according to the present disclosure generates capacitive currents via permittivity alterations which can be significant in magnitude especially in the presence of low frequency applied electric fields. Tissue permittivities in biological tissues are much higher than most other non biological materials especially for low frequency applied electric fields where the penetration depths of electric fields are highest. This is because the permittivity is inversely related to the frequency of the applied electric field such that the tissue permittivity magnitude is higher with lower frequencies. For example for electric field frequencies below 100 000 Hz brain tissue has permittivity magnitudes as high as or greater than 10 8 100 000 000 times the permittivity of free space 8.854 10 12 farad per meter and as such minimal local perturbations of the relative magnitude can lead to significant displacement current generation. As the frequency of the electric field increases the relative permittivity decreases by orders of magnitude dropping to magnitudes of approximately 10 3 times the permittivity of free space 8.854 10 12 farad per meter for electric field frequencies of approximately 100 000 Hz. Additionally by not being constrained to higher electric field frequencies the method according to the present disclosure is an advantageous method for stimulating biological tissue due to lowered penetration depth limitations and thus lowered field strength requirements. Additionally because displacement currents are generated in the area of the permittivity change focusing can be accomplished via the ultrasound alone. For example to generate capacitive currents via a permittivity perturbation relative to an applied electric field as described above broad DC or a low frequency electric source field well below the cellular stimulation threshold is applied to a brain region but stimulation effects are locally focused in a smaller region by altering the tissue permittivity in the focused region of a mechanical field generated by a mechanical source such as an ultrasound source. This could be done noninvasively with the electrodes and the ultrasound device both placed on the scalp surface such that the fields penetrate the tissue surrounding the brain region and intersect in the targeted brain location or with one or both of the electrodes and or the ultrasound device implanted below the scalp surface in the brain or any of the surrounding tissue such that the fields intersect in the targeted region.

A displacement current is generated by the modification of the permittivity in the presence of the sub threshold electric field and provides a stimulatory signal. In addition to the main permittivity change that occurs in the tissues which is responsible for stimulation i.e. the generation of the altered currents for stimulation a conductivity change could also occur in the tissue which secondarily alters the ohmic component of the currents. In a further embodiment the displacement current generation and altered ohmic current components may combine for stimulation. Generally tissue conductivities vary slightly as a function of the applied electric field frequency over the DC to 100 000 Hz frequency range but not to the same degree as the permittivities and increase with the increasing frequency of the applied electric field. Additionally in biological tissues unlike other materials the conductivity and permittivity do not show a simple one to one relationship as a function of the applied electric field frequency. The permittivity ranges are as discussed above.

Although the process described may be accomplished at any frequency of the applied electric field the method in an exemplary embodiment is applied with lower frequency applied electric fields due to the fact the permittivity magnitudes of tissues as high as or greater than 10 8 times the permittivity of free space and the electric field penetration depths are highest for low frequency applied electric fields. Higher frequency applied electric fields may be less desirable as they will require greater radiation power to penetrate the tissue and or a more pronounced mechanical source for permittivity alteration to achieve the same relative tissue permittivity change i.e. at higher applied electric field frequencies the permittivity of the tissue is lower and as such would need a greater overall perturbation to have the same overall change in permittivity of a tissue as at a lower frequency. Applied electric field frequencies in the range of DC to approximately 100 000 Hz frequencies are advantageous due to the high tissue permittivity in this frequency band and the high penetration depth for biological tissues at these frequencies. In this band tissues are within the so called alpha dispersion band where relative tissue permittivity magnitudes are maximally elevated i.e. as high as or greater than 10 8 times the permittivity of free space . Frequencies above approximately 100 000 to 1 000 000 Hz for the applied electric fields are still applicable for the method described in generating displacement currents for the stimulation of biologic cells and tissue however both the tissue permittivity and penetration depth are limited for biological tissues in this band compared to the previous band but displacement currents of sufficient magnitude can still be generated for some applications. In this range the magnitude of the applied electric field will likely need to be increased or the method used to alter the permittivity relative to the applied electric field increased to bring about a greater permittivity change relative to the tissue s permittivity magnitude for the applied electric field frequency. Additionally due to potential safety concerns for some applications it may be necessary to limit the time of application of the fields or to pulse the fields as opposed to the continuous application that is possible in the prior band. For tissues or applications where the safety concerns preclude the technique in deeper tissues the technique could still be applied in more superficial applications in a noninvasive manner or via an invasive method. Higher frequency applied electric fields above 1 000 000 to 100 000 000 Hz could be used in generating displacement currents for the stimulation of biologic cells and tissue. However this would require a more sufficient permittivity alteration or electromagnetic radiation and as such is less than ideal in terms of safety than the earlier bands. For frequencies of the applied electric field above 100 000 000 Hz biologic cell and tissue stimulation may still be possible but may be limited for specialized applications that require less significant displacement currents.

The focus of the electric and mechanical fields to generate an altered current according to the present disclosure may be directed to various structures within the brain or nervous system including but not limited to dorsal lateral prefrontal cortex any component of the basal ganglia nucleus accumbens gastric nuclei brainstem thalamus inferior colliculus superior colliculus periaqueductal gray primary motor cortex supplementary motor cortex occipital lobe Brodmann areas 1 48 primary sensory cortex primary visual cortex primary auditory cortex amygdala hippocampus cochlea cranial nerves cerebellum frontal lobe occipital lobe temporal lobe parietal lobe sub cortical structures spinal cord nerve roots sensory organs and peripheral nerves.

The focused tissue may be selected such that a wide variety of pathologies may be treated. Such pathologies that may be treated include but are not limited to Multiple Sclerosis Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis Alzheimer s Disease Dystonia Tics Spinal Cord Injury Traumatic Brain Injury Drug Craving Food Craving Alcohol Craving Nicotine Craving Stuttering Tinnitus Spasticity Parkinson s Disease Parkinsonianism Obsessions Depression Schizophrenia Bipolar Disorder Acute Mania Catonia Post Traumatic Stress Disorder Autism Chronic Pain Syndrome Phantom Limb Pain Epilepsy Stroke Auditory Hallucinations Movement Disorders Neurodegenerative Disorders Pain Disorders Metabolic Disorders Addictive Disorders Psychiatric Disorders Traumatic Nerve Injury and Sensory Disorders. Furthermore electric and mechanical fields to generate an altered current may be focused on specific brain or neural structures to enact procedures including sensory augmentation sensory alteration anesthesia induction and maintenance brain mapping epileptic mapping neural atrophy reduction neuroprosthetic interaction or control with nervous system stroke and traumatic injury neurorehabilitation bladder control assisting breathing cardiac pacing muscle stimulation and treatment of pain syndromes such as those caused by migraine neuropathies and low back pain or internal visceral diseases such as chronic pancreatitis or cancer. The methods herein could be expanded to any form of arthritis impingement disorders overuse injuries entrapment disorders and or any muscle skeletal or connective tissue disorder which leads to chronic pain central sensitization of the pain signals and or an inflammatory response.

In the focused region of tissue to which the mechanical fields and electrical fields are delivered the excitability of individual neurons can be heightened to the point that the neurons can be stimulated by the combined fields or be affected such as to cause or amplify the alteration of the neural excitability caused by the altered currents either through an increase or decrease in the excitability of the neurons. This alteration of neural excitability can last past the duration of stimulation and thus be used as a basis to provide lasting treatment. Additionally the combined fields can be provided in multiple but separate sessions to have a summed or carry over effect on the excitability of the cells and tissue. The combined fields can be provided prior to another form of stimulation to prime the tissue making it more or less susceptible to alternate follow up forms of stimulation. Furthermore the combined fields can be provided after an alternate form of stimulation where the alternate form of stimulation is used to prime the tissue to make it more or less susceptible to the form of stimulation disclosed herein. Furthermore the combined fields could be applied for a chronic period of time.

By providing the mechanical field to the sub region of tissue the permittivity can be altered within the electric field by either new elements of the sub region of tissue vibrating in and out of the electric field such that the continuum permittivity of the tissue is changed relative to the electric field or that the bulk properties of the sub region of tissue and the permittivity or tissue capacitance change due to the mechanical perturbation. An example of altering the permittivity within the electric field can occur when a cell membrane and extra cellular fluid both of different permittivities are altered in position relative to the electric field by the mechanical field. This movement of tissues of different permittivity relative to the electric field will generate a new displacement current. The tissues could have permittivity values as high as or greater than 10 8 times the permittivity of free space differ by orders of magnitude and or have anisotropic properties such that the tissue itself demonstrates a different permittivity magnitude depending on the relative direction of the applied electric field. An example of altering permittivity of the bulk tissue occurs where the relative permittivity constant of the bulk tissue is directly altered by mechanical perturbation in the presence of an electric field. The mechanical source i.e. ultrasound source may be placed at any location relative to the electrode locations i.e. within or outside the same location as the electrodes as long as components of the electric field and mechanical field are in the same region.

Tissue permittivities can be altered relative to the applied electric fields via a number of methods. Mechanical techniques can be used to either alter the bulk tissue permittivity relative to an applied electric field or move tissue components of differing permittivities relative to an applied electric field. There are no specific limitations to the frequency of the mechanical field that is applied as previously discussed however exemplary frequencies range from the sub kHZ to 1000s of MHz. A second electromagnetic field could be applied to the tissue at a different frequency than the initial frequency of the applied electromagnetic field such that it alters the tissue permittivity at the frequency dependent point of the initially applied electric field. An optical signal could also be focused on the tissues to alter the permittivity of the tissue relative to an applied electric field. A chemical agent or thermal field could also be applied to the tissues to alter the permittivity of the tissue relative to an applied electric field. These methods could also be used in combination to alter the tissue permittivity relative to an applied electric field via invasive or noninvasive methods.

For example shows a set up for generating an altered current with a newly generated displacement current through the combined effects of an electric field and a chemical agent . A tissue or composite of tissues is placed within an electric source which generates an electric field and combined with chemical source which releases a chemical agent that can be focused on the tissue . In the area that the chemical agent is released in the tissue the electric field transects the sub region of tissue and the chemical agent reacts with the sub region of tissue to alter the tissue s relative permittivity relative to the applied electric field . This generates a displacement current in addition to the current that would be present due to the source electric field . The chemical agent may be any agent which can react with the tissue or cellular components of the tissue to alter its permittivity relative to the electric field . This may be by a thermoreactive process to raise or lower the tissue temperature or through a chemical reaction which alters the distribution of ions in the cellular and extra cellular media for instance along ionic double layers at cell walls in the tissue . Similarly the conformation of proteins and other charged components within the tissue could be altered such that the permittivity of the tissue is altered relative to the low frequency electric field . The agent could also be any agent that adapts the permanent dipole moments of any molecules or compounds in the tissue temporarily or permanently relative to the low frequency electric field . The chemical reaction driven by the chemical agent must work rapidly enough such that the permittivity of the tissue is quickly altered in the presence of the electric field in order to generate the displacement current . The reaction may also be such as to fluctuate the permittivity such that as the permittivity continues to change displacement currents continue to be generated. In addition to the main permittivity change that occurs in the tissues a conductivity change could also occur in the tissue which secondarily alters the ohmic component of the currents. A biological agent may be used in place of or in addition to the chemical agent . This embodiment may have particular application for focused drug delivery where an additional chemical or biological agent is included to assist in therapy of the tissue or where the altered current could drive an additional electrochemical reaction for therapy. For example this could be used in areas such as focused gene therapy or focused chemotherapy.

Another example is shown in which illustrates a set up for applying a method for generating an altered current with a newly generated displacement current through the combined effects of a low frequency electric field and an electromagnetic radiation field . A tissue or composite of tissues is placed within a low frequency electric field which is generated by an electric source and combined with radiation source which generates a radiation field that can be focused on the tissue . In the area that the radiation field is focused in the tissue the electric field transects the sub component of tissue where the radiation field interacts with the sub component of tissue to alter the tissue s relative permittivity relative to the applied electric field and as such generates a displacement current in addition to the current that would be present due to the source electric field or the radiation source field alone. The electromagnetic radiation field could for example interact with the tissue by altering its temperature through ohmic processes alter the distribution of ions in the cellular and extra cellular media for instance along ionic double layers along cell walls through the electric forces acting on the ions or alter the conformation of proteins and other charged components within the tissue through the electric forces such that the permittivity of the tissue is altered relative to the low frequency electric field . Furthermore the electromagnetic field could interact with the tissue by moving components of the tissue via electrorestrictive forces as would be seen in anisotropic tissues to alter the continuum permittivity of the tissue relative to the low frequency electric field . In addition to the main permittivity change that occurs in the tissues a conductivity change could also occur in the tissue which secondarily alters the ohmic component of the currents.

In another embodiment a thermal source to alter the permittivity of the tissue may be used. In such embodiments a thermal source such as a heating probe a cooling probe or a hybrid probe may be placed external or internal to the tissue to be stimulated. A thermal source may alter the permittivity of the tissue through the direct permittivity dependence of tissue temperature mechanical expansion of tissues in response to temperature changes or by mechanical forces that arise due to altered particle and ionic agitation in response to the temperature alteration such that permittivity of the tissue is altered relative to an applied electric field. In addition to the main permittivity change that occurs in the tissues a conductivity change could also occur in the tissue which secondarily alters the ohmic component of the currents. This embodiment may be useful for stimulation in the presence of an acute injury to the tissue where the thermal source could be used to additionally assist in the treatment of the tissue injury for example with a traumatic brain injury or an infarct in any organ such as the heart. The tissue could be cooled or heated at the same time stimulation is provided to reduce the impact of an injury.

In a further embodiment the method according to the present disclosure is applied in the area of muscular stimulation where amplified focused direction altered and or attenuated currents could be used to alter muscular activity via direct stimulation depolarizing muscular cells hyperpolarizing muscular cells modifying membrane potentials and or increasing or decreasing the excitability of the muscle cells. This alteration of excitability or firing patterns can last past the duration of stimulation and thus be used as a basis to provide lasting treatment. Additionally the stimulation can be provided in multiple but separate sessions to have a summed or carry over effect on the excitability of cells and tissue. Additionally the stimulation could be provided to prime the tissue by adjusting the muscle cell excitability to make it more or less susceptible to alternate follow up forms of stimulation. The stimulation could be used after another form of stimulation was used to prime the tissue. Furthermore the stimulation could be applied for a chronic period of time. This embodiment may be useful for altering or assisting cardiac pacing or function assisted breathing muscle stimulation for rehabilitation muscle stimulation in the presence of nerve or spinal cord injury to prevent atrophy or assist in movement or as substitution for physical exercise.

In yet another embodiment the method according to the present disclosure can be applied the area of physical therapy where amplified focused direction altered and or attenuated currents could be used to stimulate blood flow increase or alter neuromuscular response limit inflammation speed the break down of scar tissue and speed rehabilitation by applying the focus of the current generation to the effected region in need of physical therapy. It is envisioned that the method according to the present disclosure may have a wide variety in the area of physical therapy including the treatment or rehabilitation of traumatic injuries sports injuries surgical rehabilitation occupational therapy and assisted rehabilitation following neural or muscular injury. For instance following an injury to a joint or muscle there is often increased inflammation and scar tissue in the region and decreased neural and muscular response. Typically ultrasound is provided to the affected region to increase blood flow to the region and increase the metabolic re absorption of the scar tissue while electrical stimulation is provided separately to the nerves and muscles however by providing them together a person could receive the benefit of each individual effect but additionally amplified stimulatory and metabolic effects through the altered currents. The other methods for generating altered currents discussed within could also be used to assist in physical therapy via the displacement currents that are generated.

Furthermore the method according to the present disclosure may be applied to the area of cellular metabolism where currents could be used to interact with electrically receptive cells or charged membranes to alter the tissue or cellular dynamics. It is envisioned that this embodiment could provide treatment for various diseases where electrically receptive cells respond to the newly generated displacement currents and altered current distribution.

Furthermore the method according to the present disclosure may be applied to the area of gene therapy. Amplified focused direction altered and or attenuated currents could be used to interact with electrically receptive cells or receptors within the cell to influence protein transcription processes and alter the genetic content of the cells. The altered current densities in the tissue can interact with the tissue to stimulate this altered gene regulation. Additionally the displacement currents generated by the method could further be used to assist in drug delivery and or gene therapy through the altered current influence on the delivery of agents.

Furthermore the method according to the present disclosure may be applied to the area of tissue growth. Combined energies could be used to interact with cells or receptors within the cell to influence cell growth and or tissue s and or alter cellular and or tissue s processes and or structures. Stimulation can be used to increase and or slow cell and or tissue growth and or affect tumors such as through ablation methods whereby energies can be used to ablate tissues or with methods whereby combined energies can create tumor treating fields. For instance with electromechanical stimulation altered electromagnetic fields generated via electromechanical coupling can affect the tissues while in certain embodiments the mechanical fields could also have a further therapeutic effect.

The methods and devices of this disclosure involve providing a first type of energy to a region of tissue in which the first type is provided in an amount that inhibits cellular function within the region of tissue and providing a second type of energy to the region of tissue in which the second type is provided in an amount that facilitates cellular function within the region of tissue wherein the combined effect stimulates cellular function within the tissue. In certain embodiments the stimulatory effect is facilitatory to the cellular function within the tissue and in certain embodiments the stimulatory effect can have a greater facilitatory effect than that of the second type of energy alone . In other embodiments the stimulatory effect is inhibitory to the cellular function within the tissue and in certain embodiments the stimulatory effect can have a greater inhibitory effect than that of the first type of energy alone . For example providing one energy type with specific parameters inhibits certain electrical thermal mechanical optical and or chemical functions of a cell such as in size and or timing yet the application of a second energy type with specific parameters facilitates certain electrical thermal mechanical optical and or chemical functions of a cell but the combined application of the energies leads to an inhibitory effect s greater than the first energy applied alone or a facilitatory effect s greater than the second energy type applied alone. The stimulation can be applied to affect multiple functions of the cell whereby the combined energies could have multiple facilitatory and or inhibitory effects on the cell and or the individual energies can have their own independent effects . Furthermore the methods described herein could be applied to extend or decrease the duration of stimulatory effect of one or both of the energy types on cellular function whereby the combined effects of the two energies lead to an extended duration of effect of one or both of the stimulatory energies.

The direction of cellular effect inhibitory or facilitatory can be controlled by any of the energy types applied depending on the energy source parameters and the targeted tissue. For example with a transcranial DC electrical energy source applied in conjunction with a transcranial ultrasound energy source such as might be used for imaging or stimulation the DC electrical energy source characteristics could be used to determine the direction of typical cellular response during transcranial application i.e. the polarity of the electrical field for example one could apply a DC electrical field in conjunction with any typical ultrasound field transcranially to a neural target in the brain where the DC electrical field and the ultrasound field could be provided in either a facilitatory or inhibitory manner but the DC electric field is used determine the direction of stimulatory effect such as could be done with a tDCS stimulation device in conjunction with an ultrasound imaging system where the polarity of the tDCS fields are used for controlling the direction of combined effect. For instance if one provided a DC electrical field such as what could be done transcranially from an anodal scalp electrode with approximately 2 mA 25 cm 2 current density amplitude as reported at the scalp source focused on the visual cortex while simultaneously providing an ultrasound stimulation with inhibitory properties to the same area such as could be done with an ultrasound source providing a typical transcranial imaging signal of approximately a 2.4 MHz center frequency where the center frequency refers to the NEMA center frequency calculated in accordance with NEMA UD2 NEMA Acoustic Output Measurement Standard defined as Fc f1 f2 2 where f1 and f2 are the frequencies at which the transmitted acoustic pressure spectrum is 71 3 dB of its maximum value with a Max Ispta.3 of 0.2 W cm 2 the derated at 0.3 dB cm MHz Spatial Peak Temporal Average intensity mW cm 2 the Max Isppa.3 of 33 W cm 2 the derated at 0.3 dB cm MHz Spatial Peak Pulse Average intensity W cm and a Max Imax.3 of 46 W cm 2 the derated at 0.3 dB cm MHz maximum half cycle intensity value acquired at the depth where Pii.3 is maximized W cm 2 the overall effect on the neural target would be facilitatory although the techniques provided individually would elicit facilitatory tDCS and inhibitory ultrasound effects . However by altering the relative position of the DC source such as by placing it inside the brain and both lowering its strength and reversing its polarity such that it was a cathodal source for further examples describing anodal vs cathodal effects see Wagner Valero Cabre and Pascual Leone Noninvasive Human Brain Stimulation Annu Rev Biomed Eng 2007 or its references Bindman Lippold and Redfearn The Action of Brief Polarizing Currents on the Cerebral Cortex of the Rat 1 During Current Flow and 2 in the Production of Long Lasting after Effects J Physiol 172 369 82 1964 Bindman L J Long lasting changes in the level of the electrical activity of the cerebral cortex produced by polarizing currents Nature 196 584 85 1962 Purpura and McMurtry Intracellular Activities and Evoked Potential Changes During Polarization of Motor Cortex J Neurophysiol 28 166 85 1965 and Terzuolo and Bullock Measurement of Imposed Voltage Gradient Adequate to Modulate Neuronal Firing Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 42 9 687 694 1956 the relative electric field effect on the visual cortex would be the same as having used the anodal stimulation on the scalp surface and thus the combined effect would be the same but driven by the cathodal driven electric field but where the relative field effects are the same . However by flipping the polarity of the electrical source field in either example the combined effects would no longer be facilitatory but inhibitory. Although the general convention in transcranial brain stimulation methods is reported using the energy source positions on the scalp one ultimately determines the direction of stimulation of the combined fields by accounting for the energy fields at the site of action i.e. the stimulatory field s direction and timing at the site of the stimulated cell s and thus while providing specific examples herein of transcranial applications where we generally follow convention of reporting the effects relative from the scalp application site the amplitude source location timing and or vector orientation of the energy fields and direction of neural effect i.e. inhibitory or facilitatory can be modified by changing the location and or characteristics of the stimulation energy source s and their applied energies .

And while above we provide an example for combined electrical and mechanical stimulation where the DC electric field is used to control the direction of effect i.e. inhibitor facilitatory the relative interactions between the two energy types can be used to determine and control the stimulatory effect direction. For instance one could also alter the ultrasound parameters instead of the electrical source characteristics to control the direction of neural effect such as one could provide a DC electric field but alter the direction of neural response i.e. inhibitor facilitatory through the pulse shape pulse frequency spectral components and or relative direction of the mechanical fields provided by the ultrasound source relative to the DC field . For example one could provide an electrical field such as through a DC current source which was inhibitory to the neural targets such as a cathodal application of a low intensity current to the cortex from a scalp electrode overlying the entire scalp and thus cortex with an indifferent electrode placed below the mouth of the individual being stimulated but also provide a pulsed transcranial ultrasonic field to a focused target in the presence of the broad field for example with a 0.7 MHz field pulsed on and off for short pulse durations for example for a period shorter than the refractory period of the targeted cells or for instance at a 65 microsecond duration or just for one quarter of a wave cycle at a frequency greater than 20 Hz to the same brain area. The coupling of the fields can lead to an amplified electrical current in the tissue at the frequency in which the ultrasonic field is turned on and off which can ultimately have a facilitatory effect on the neural targets such as for example those in the motor cortex one can provide the electric field at an intensity where its effects alone are negligible in the targeted region or at a level where the combined effects are greater than that of its individual effects . As another example one could provide the same electrical field but alter the mechanical field such that it is pulsed on and off at a 1 Hz frequency this in turn would lead to an overall inhibitory effect on the neural targets.

Furthermore one could vary both of the electrical and mechanical fields e.g. the relative timing phase frequency pulse or spectral power of individual pulses shape dynamics direction and or amplitude of the applied energy fields such as with a control device and or methodology whereby the field parameters are controlled and or tuned to the desired effect facilitatory or inhibitory and magnitude of effect timing of effect duration of effect based on the combined field analysis relative to the neural response. These parameters could be altered continuously whereby combined effects that when provided individually could have contrasting effects provide stimulatory effects that are greater than either of the individual modality applied individually.

Ultimately one could calculate optimize tune or guide the combined energy field effects such as those driven by an electric field source and a mechanical field source with any computational method such as those explained co owned and co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 216 282 the content of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety and or integrated with imaging data and or tissue property data and or feedback information such as those explained co owned and co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 162 047 the content of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety .

In another potential embodiment these methods could be implemented to effectively provide noise to the cellular system that is targeted or provide continuously alternating inhibitory and facilitatory signals to alter normal cellular function either with combined stimulatory methods i.e. multiple energy types and or with individual energy types .

All of the methods and processes discussed in this document could be implemented with any form of stimulation including but not limited to electromagnetic mechanical optical thermal electrical magnetic and or combined methods and or methods which alter tissue impedances relative to electrical sources to generate altered stimulation currents for example with electromagnetic chemical mechanical optical thermal electrical magnetic and or combined sources . Typically the two energy components would be simultaneously applied but using one energy type to prime the tissue for one or more energy types is also possible either sequentially applying the energies or with a period of time in between the second energy application.

Furthermore the methods demonstrated herein could be extended to work with more than just two energy types and the direction of effect inhibitory or facilitatory determined via the combined energy analysis working through the different permutations as described above. As in the other methods with two energy types the dynamics of the energy source s could be altered in a manner to control direction e.g. inhibitory facilitory of the combined effect on cellular function. As in the other methods with two energy types the direction of the neural effect with more than two energy types can be determined by the methods outlined herein in conjunction with co pending and co owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 216 282.

References and citations to other documents such as patents patent applications patent publications journals books papers web contents have been made throughout this disclosure. All such documents are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entirety for all purposes.

The invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. The foregoing embodiments are therefore to be considered in all respects illustrative rather than limiting on the invention described herein.

Electrophysiology protocols focused on comparing the combined local visual evoked potentials VEP recorded from a 23 contact electrode implanted in area 17 i.e. primary visual cortices V1 of anaesthetized adult cats n 6 during and immediately following transcranial stimulations applied to the V1. Application of a mechanical field TUS 2.4 MHz 0.2 W cm an electrical field tDCS 2 mA DC 9 cm anodal a combination of a mechanical field and an electrical field ESSstim 2 mA DC 9 cm 2.4 MHz 0.2 W cm and a SHAM inactive transducer were evaluated i.e. stimulations completed transcranially from an anodal scalp electrode with a 2 mA 9 cm 2 current density amplitude as reported at the scalp source and a ultrasound scalp source a 2.4 MHz center frequency where the center frequency refers to the NEMA center frequency calculated in accordance with NEMA UD2 NEMA Acoustic Output Measurement Standard defined as Fc f1 f2 2 where f1 and f2 are the frequencies at which the transmitted acoustic pressure spectrum is 71 3 dB of its maximum value with a Max Ispta.3 of 0.2 W cm 2 the derated at 0.3 dB cm MHz Spatial Peak Temporal Average intensity mW cm 2 the Max Isppa.3 of 33 W cm 2 the derated at 0.3 dB cm MHz Spatial Peak Pulse Average intensity W cm and a Max Imax.3 of 46 W cm 2 the derated at 0.3 dB cm MHz maximum half cycle intensity value acquired at the depth where Pii.3 is maximized W cm 2 . Dosing was applied for 5 min periods. Although anesthesia and low stimulation doses were used to minimize the offline carryover effects of stimulation each application of stimulation was followed by a variable washout period where the real time VEP response was monitored and allowed to return to the range of the pre stimulation VEPs 15 min minimum assessed in 5 min blocks .

A 3 way ANOVA Dependent Area Under VEP Curve i.e. measure of cortical excitability Independent Stimulation Type Time and Cat demonstrated a highly significant effect of stimulation type F 73.97 p 0 time analyzed in 5 minute epochs i.e. online 0 5 5 10 and 1045 mins F 90.68 p 0 and cat F 40.31 p 0 . A subsequent comparison of the means with a least squares difference LSD correction with p set as p

A secondary analysis of the techniques as a function of stimulation type time and contact depth F 3.24 p 0 accounting for cat to cat variability was undertaken where a multiple comparison of means with an LSD correction p

Finally in a sub cat group n 3 complete randomized transcranial stimulations to the V1 the frontal eye field A6 and the posterior middle suprasylvian sulcus PMS areas have been made with comparisons being made among a combination of a mechanical field and electrical field an electrical field alone a mechanical field alone and a SHAM field i.e. inactive transducers . In these animals the results demonstrated V1 and PMS stimulation effects similar to above with the V1 stimulations demonstrating a slightly larger effect than PMS although not greatly different and in the deepest target A6 the combination of the mechanical field and the electrical field was the only technique to demonstrate any consistent effect in neural activity approximately 5.8 change in the VEP magnitude .

