---

title: Therapeutic ribonucleases
abstract: The present invention relates to the use of ribonucleases (RNases) in the treatment or prevention of disease.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09579365&OS=09579365&RS=09579365
owner: Quintessence Biosciences, Inc.
number: 09579365
owner_city: Madison
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150414
---
The present application is a continuation of allowed U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 149 491 filed Jan. 7 2014 which is a continuation of U.S. Pat. No. 8 628 768 issued Jan. 14 2014 which is a continuation of U.S. Pat. No. 8 216 567 issued Jul. 10 2012 which is continuation of U.S. Pat. No. 8 029 782 issued Oct. 4 2011 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 101 905 filed Oct. 1 2008 each of which are herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates to the use of ribonucleases RNases in the treatment or prevention of disease.

In the U.S. population mortality associated with the 15 most common cancer types alone has been estimated to approach 170 deaths annually per 100 000 individuals Martin L Brown Joseph Lipscomb and Claire Snyder 2001 THE BURDEN OF ILLNESS OF CANCER Economic Cost and Quality of Life Ann. Rev. Public Health 22 91 113 . Currently there are an estimated 1 437 180 new cases of cancer and 565 650 deaths each year American Cancer Society 2008 . The economic burden of cancer has been estimated to exceed 96B in 1990 dollars Brown et al 2001 .

The term chemotherapy simply means the treatment of disease with chemical substances. The father of chemotherapy Paul Ehrlich imagined the perfect chemotherapeutic as a magic bullet such a compound would kill invading organisms or cells without harming the host. While significant progress has been made in identifying compounds that kill or inhibit cancer cells and in identifying methods of directing such compounds to the intended target cells the art remains in need of improved therapeutic compounds.

There are a range of different types of chemotherapeutic agents available including small molecules and biologics such as nucleic acid compounds polypeptide compounds or derivatives thereof. In general properties of chemotherapeutics requiring consideration include efficacy pharmacokinetic properties and ease of manufacture. Protein therapeutics in general may offer particular advantages as alternatives to small molecules however effective protein drugs must have a balance of optimal properties that include specificity cytotoxicity affinity for their target safety solubility amenability to effective delivery stability and longevity in the body clearing time . A candidate drug having superiority in any one of these properties may not possess the optimal balance of features overall to serve as an effective drug.

There is need in the art for additional anti cancer chemotherapeutics that have an effective complement of features for use in therapeutic settings.

The present invention relates to the use of RNases in the treatment or prevention of disease. In some embodiments RNases are used for the treatment or prevention of human disease such as cancer. In some embodiments a variant of recombinant human RNase 1 has an optimal balance of desirable properties for the treatment or prevention of human cancer. Such properties include but are not limited to stability cytotoxicity towards pathogenic cells efficacy of degradation of pathogenic RNA of any origin including viral RNA evasion of binding by RNase inhibitors resistance to degradation by proteases delivery to target cells efficiency of import into the cell dose response properties pharmacokinetic properties and longevity within the human body. In some embodiments therapeutic compositions and methods of the invention employ a variant of human RNase 1 that has amino acid changes compared to a wild type enzyme R4C G38R R39G N67R G89R S90R and V118C. In some embodiments the ribonuclease comprises or consists of SEQ ID NO 1 

In some embodiments the amino acid sequence comprises or consists of SEQ ID NO 1 having an N terminal methionine SEQ ID NO 4 

MKESCAKKFQRQHMDSDSSPSSSSTYCNQMMRRRNMTQRGCKPVNTFVHEPLV DVQNVCFQEKVTCKRGQGNCYKSNSSMHITDCRLTNRRRYPNCAYRTSPKERHI IVACEGSPYVPCHFDASVEDST.

In some embodiments the ribonuclease is recombinantly produced. In some embodiments the ribonuclease is encoded by a nucleic acid molecule comprising SEQ ID NO 2 

In some embodiments an expression vector encoding the ribonuclease further comprises a leader sequences such as SEQ ID NO 3 

In some embodiments an expression vector encoding the ribonuclease further comprises one or more stop codons e.g. TAA and or TGA .

In some embodiments the RNase is conjugated to water soluble moieties as a means of providing improved physical properties. In some embodiments the water soluble moiety is a polyethylene glycol PEG molecule. In some embodiments the RNase is conjugated or fused to or otherwise associated with a moiety that targets the RNase to a specific cell type such as a diseased or cancerous cell.

Thus in some embodiments the present invention provides a composition e.g. a therapeutic preparation comprising a ribonuclease e.g. a purified ribonuclease having a human RNase 1 sequence with amino acid modifications R4C G38R R39G N67R G89R S90R and V118C e.g. comprising or consisting of SEQ ID NO 1 . In some embodiments the present invention provides an expression vector comprising a nucleic acid sequence encoding such a ribonuclease e.g. comprising SEQ ID NO 2 . In some embodiments the present invention provides a host cell comprising such an expression vector. In some embodiments the present invention further provides methods of treating subjects e.g. human subject suffering from or suspected of suffering from cancer by administering a ribonuclease alone or in combination with other agents to the subject. The administration may be at one or more time points in a therapeutically effective dose e.g. administered at 0.01 to 100 mg kg body weight of the subject per week for one or more weeks per day for one or more days or per treatment for one or more treatments .

As used herein the term variant of a ribonuclease refers to a modified ribonuclease that retains enzymatic activities similar to that e.g. that has at least 60 at least 75 at least 85 at least 95 or at least 99 of activity retained associated with the non modified ribonuclease from which it was derived. Tests for measuring enzymatic activities are described herein and are known in the art. The variant may be a variant of a natural enzyme or may be a variant of a non natural enzyme. For example a particular non natural synthetic ribonuclease having SEQ ID NO 1 may be modified to include one or more amino acid changes that result in a variant of SEQ ID NO 1. In some preferred embodiments the variant has one or a limited number of amino acid substitutions e.g. conservative or non conservative substitutions additions or deletions e.g. truncations compared to the non modified ribonuclease.

As used herein the term variant of a ribonuclease retaining RNA degradation activity refers to a variant of ribonuclease e.g. SEQ ID NO 1 that has at least 50 at least 60 at least 75 at least 85 at least 95 or at least 99 of RNA degradation activity of the non modified ribonuclease from which it was derived. RNA degradation activity may be measured using any suitable assay including but not limited to visualization and quantitation of a degraded RNA sample using agarose or polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. In some preferred embodiments the variant has one or a limited number of amino acid substitutions e.g. conservative or non conservative substitutions additions or deletions e.g. truncations compared to the non modified ribonuclease.

As used herein the term variant of a ribonuclease having substantially the same cell killing activity cytotoxic activity cytostatic activity or cell damaging activity refers to a variant of a ribonuclease e.g. SEQ ID NO 1 that has at least 50 at least 60 at least 75 at least 85 at least 95 or at least 99 of the cell killing activity cytotoxic activity cytostatic activity or cell damaging activity of the non modified ribonuclease from which it was derived. For example in some embodiments the activity is the ability to kill or otherwise affect cancer cells. In other embodiments it is the ability to reduce tumor size in animals. In yet other embodiments the activity is the ability to reduce symptoms of a disease characterized by aberrant cell growth e.g. cancer . Activity may be measured using any suitable method including but not limited to commercially available cell viability assays measurement of tumor size and commercially available cell proliferation assays. In some preferred embodiments the variant has one or a limited number of amino acid substitutions e.g. conservative or non conservative substitutions additions or deletions e.g. truncations compared to wild type enzyme.

As used herein the term variant of a ribonuclease retaining protein folding properties refers to a variant of a ribonuclease e.g. SEQ ID NO 1 that exhibits similar protein folding properties as the non modified ribonuclease from which it was derived. Protein folding properties include speed of protein folding and folding of proper structure folding that substantially retains the activity of the non modified ribonuclease from which it was derived . In preferred embodiments variants fold with at least 50 at least 60 at least 75 at least 85 at least 95 or at least 99 or more of the speed of the non modified ribonuclease from which it was derived. Assays for protein folding are well known in the art and include but are not limited to spectroscopic and enzymatic e.g. RNA degradation assays and HPLC. In some preferred embodiments the variant has one or a limited number of amino acid substitutions e.g. conservative or non conservative substitutions additions or deletions e.g. truncations compared to wild type enzyme.

As used herein the term variant of a ribonuclease having similar immunogenicity properties refers to a variant of a ribonuclease e.g. SEQ ID NO 1 that in some embodiments exhibits substantially the same or better immunogenicity properties than the non modified ribonuclease from which it was derived. Immunogenicity properties include toxicity and undesirable immune responses e.g. cytotoxic immune response in animals. In preferred embodiments variants exhibit less than 100 preferably less than 90 even more preferably less than 80 and still more preferably less than 70 of the toxicity or undesirable immune response of the non modified ribonuclease from which it was derived. The level of toxicity or immunogenicity can be determined using any suitable method including but not limited to commercially available assays for toxicity and immune response e.g. measurement of cytokines or T cell response . In some preferred embodiments the variant has one or a limited number of amino acid substitutions e.g. conservative or non conservative substitutions additions or deletions e.g. truncations compared to wild type enzyme.

The term heterologous nucleic acid sequence or heterologous gene are used interchangeably to refer to a nucleotide sequence which is ligated to a nucleic acid sequence to which it is not ligated in nature or to which it is ligated at a different location in nature. Heterologous DNA is not endogenous to the cell into which it is introduced but has been obtained from another cell. Generally although not necessarily such heterologous DNA encodes RNA and proteins that are not normally produced by the cell into which it is expressed. Examples of heterologous DNA include reporter genes transcriptional and translational regulatory sequences selectable marker proteins e.g. proteins which confer drug resistance or therapeutic benefits etc.

As used herein the term immunoglobulin or antibody refer to proteins that bind a specific antigen. Immunoglobulins include but are not limited to polyclonal monoclonal chimeric and humanized antibodies Fab fragments F ab fragments and includes immunoglobulins of the following classes IgG IgA IgM IgD IgE and secreted immunoglobulins sIg . Immunoglobulins generally comprise two identical heavy chains and two light chains. However the terms antibody and immunoglobulin also encompass single chain antibodies and two chain antibodies.

As used herein the term antigen binding protein refers to proteins that bind to a specific antigen. Antigen binding proteins include but are not limited to immunoglobulins including polyclonal monoclonal chimeric and humanized antibodies Fab fragments F ab fragments and Fab expression libraries and single chain antibodies.

The term epitope as used herein refers to that portion of an antigen that makes contact with a particular immunoglobulin.

When a protein or fragment of a protein is used to immunize a host animal numerous regions of the protein may induce the production of antibodies which bind specifically to a given region or three dimensional structure on the protein these regions or structures are referred to as antigenic determinants . An antigenic determinant may compete with the intact antigen i.e. the immunogen used to elicit the immune response for binding to an antibody.

The terms specific binding or specifically binding when used in reference to the interaction of an antibody and a protein or peptide means that the interaction is dependent upon the presence of a particular structure i.e. the antigenic determinant or epitope on the protein in other words the antibody is recognizing and binding to a specific protein structure rather than to proteins in general. For example if an antibody is specific for epitope A the presence of a protein containing epitope A or free unlabelled A in a reaction containing labeled A and the antibody will reduce the amount of labeled A bound to the antibody.

As used herein the terms non specific binding and background binding when used in reference to the interaction of an antibody and a protein or peptide refer to an interaction that is not dependent on the presence of a particular structure i.e. the antibody is binding to proteins in general rather that a particular structure such as an epitope .

As used herein the term subject refers to any animal e.g. a mammal including but not limited to humans non human primates rodents and the like which is to be the recipient of a particular treatment. Typically the terms subject and patient are used interchangeably herein in reference to a human subject.

As used herein the term subject suspected of having cancer refers to a subject that presents one or more symptoms indicative of a cancer e.g. a noticeable lump or mass or is being screened for a cancer e.g. during a routine physical . A subject suspected of having cancer may also have one or more risk factors. A subject suspected of having cancer has generally not been tested for cancer. However a subject suspected of having cancer encompasses an individual who has received a preliminary diagnosis e.g. a CT scan showing a mass but for whom a confirmatory test e.g. biopsy and or histology has not been done or for whom the stage of cancer is not known. The term further includes subjects who once had cancer e.g. an individual in remission . A subject suspected of having cancer is sometimes diagnosed with cancer and is sometimes found to not have cancer.

As used herein the term subject diagnosed with a cancer refers to a subject who has been tested and found to have cancerous cells. The cancer may be diagnosed using any suitable method including but not limited to biopsy x ray blood test and the diagnostic methods of the present invention. A preliminary diagnosis is one based only on visual e.g. CT scan or the presence of a lump and antigen tests.

As used herein the term subject at risk for cancer refers to a subject with one or more risk factors for developing a specific cancer. Risk factors include but are not limited to gender age genetic predisposition environmental exposure and previous incidents of cancer preexisting non cancer diseases and lifestyle.

As used herein the term non human animals refers to all non human animals including but are not limited to vertebrates such as rodents non human primates ovines bovines ruminants lagomorphs porcines caprines equines canines felines ayes etc.

 Amino acid sequence and terms such as polypeptide or protein are not meant to limit the amino acid sequence to the complete native amino acid sequence associated with the recited protein molecule.

The terms test compound and candidate compound refer to any chemical or biological entity pharmaceutical drug and the like that is a candidate for use to treat or prevent a disease illness sickness or disorder of bodily function e.g. cancer . Test compounds comprise both known and potential therapeutic compounds. A test compound can be determined to be therapeutic by screening using the screening methods of the present invention.

As used herein the term sample is used in its broadest sense. In one sense it is meant to include a specimen or culture obtained from any source as well as biological and environmental samples. Biological samples may be obtained from animals including humans and encompass fluids solids tissues and gases. Biological samples include blood products such as plasma serum and the like. Environmental samples include environmental material such as surface matter soil water and industrial samples. Such examples are not however to be construed as limiting the sample types applicable to the present invention.

The term gene refers to a nucleic acid e.g. DNA sequence that comprises coding sequences necessary for the production of a polypeptide or precursor e.g. ribonucleases or ribonuclease conjugates of the present invention . The polypeptide can be encoded by a full length coding sequence or by any portion of the coding sequence so long as the desired activity or functional properties e.g. enzymatic activity etc. of the full length or fragment are retained. The term also encompasses the coding region of a structural gene and the including sequences located adjacent to the coding region on both the 5 and 3 ends for a distance of about 1 kb on either end such that the gene corresponds to the length of the full length mRNA. The sequences that are located 5 of the coding region and which are present on the mRNA are referred to as 5 untranslated sequences. The sequences that are located 3 or downstream of the coding region and that are present on the mRNA are referred to as 3 untranslated sequences. The term gene encompasses both cDNA and genomic forms of a gene. A genomic form or clone of a gene contains the coding region interrupted with non coding sequences termed introns or intervening regions or intervening sequences. Introns are segments of a gene that are transcribed into nuclear RNA hnRNA introns may contain regulatory elements such as enhancers. Introns are removed or spliced out from the nuclear or primary transcript introns therefore are absent in the messenger RNA mRNA transcript. The mRNA functions during translation to specify the sequence or order of amino acids in a nascent polypeptide.

The term fragment as used herein refers to a polypeptide that has an amino terminal and or carboxy terminal deletion as compared to the native protein but where the remaining amino acid sequence is identical to the corresponding positions in the amino acid sequence deduced from a full length cDNA sequence. Fragments typically are at least 4 amino acids long preferably at least 20 amino acids long usually at least 50 amino acids long or longer and span the portion of the polypeptide required for intermolecular binding of the compositions with its various ligands and or substrates. In some embodiments fragments posses an activity of the native protein.

As used herein the term purified or to purify refers to the removal of impurities and contaminants from a sample. For example antibodies are purified by removal of non immunoglobulin proteins they are also purified by the removal of immunoglobulin that does not bind an intended target molecule. The removal of non immunoglobulin proteins and or the removal of immunoglobulins that do not bind an intended target molecule results in an increase in the percent of target reactive immunoglobulins in the sample. In another example recombinant polypeptides are expressed in host cells and the polypeptides are purified by the removal of host cell proteins the percent of recombinant polypeptides is thereby increased in the sample.

The term expression vector as used herein refers to a recombinant DNA molecule containing a desired coding sequence and appropriate nucleic acid sequences necessary for the expression of the operably linked coding sequence in a particular host organism. Nucleic acid sequences necessary for expression in prokaryotes usually include a promoter an operator optional and a ribosome binding site often along with other sequences. Eukaryotic cells are known to utilize promoters enhancers and termination and polyadenylation signals.

As used herein the term host cell refers to any eukaryotic or prokaryotic cell e.g. bacterial cells such as yeast cells mammalian cells avian cells amphibian cells plant cells fish cells and insect cells whether located in vitro or in vivo. For example host cells may be located in a transgenic animal.

The present invention provides ribonuclease compositions and methods. The ribonucleases find use as pharmaceutical agents and as research agents e.g. for studying or characterizing biological processes in cells tissues or organisms . For example in some embodiments ribonucleases comprising SEQ ID NO 1 are provided. SEQ ID NO 1 is the native human RNase 1 with amino acid modifications R4C G38R R39G N67R G89R S90R and V118C X Y where X is the native amino acid is the amino acid position based on a recognized numbering system for human RNase 1 and Y is the modified amino acid that replaces X . The present invention also provides variants of SEQ ID NO 1 that maintain the 4C 38R 39G 67R 90R and 118C sequences but include one or more additional amino acid changes. A variety of variants are described in more detail below.

The ribonucleases of the invention were identified based on a balance of a number of properties to yield an effective therapeutic molecule. Properties considered included stability cytotoxicity towards pathogenic cells efficacy of degradation of pathogenic RNA of any origin including viral RNA evasion of binding by RNase inhibitors resistance to degradation by proteases delivery to target cells efficiency of import into the cell dose response properties pharmacokinetic properties and longevity within the human body. For example the ribonuclease of SEQ ID NO 1 provides a useful therapeutic molecule that has a balance of properties making it superior to prior described therapeutic ribonucleases such as QBI 119 described in U.S. Pat. Publ. Ser. No. 2005 0261232 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety . The ribonuclease of SEQ ID NO 1 is inferior to QBI 119 and native human RNase 1 in certain characteristics that might be considered important in selecting an optimal compound e.g. enzyme activity ribonuclease inhibitor evasion etc. yet provides an overall superior therapeutic agent. For example SEQ ID NO 1 has only a fraction of the of the ribonuclease activity of native human RNasel less than 1 yet is therapeutically effective.

The ribonucleases of the present invention find use in treating a wide variety of disease states including a wide variety of cancer types. For example SEQ ID NO 1 was tested against non small cell lung cancer cells A549 cell line pancreatic cancer cells BxPC3 cell line and prostate cancer cells DU145 cell line and found to inhibit tumor growth greater than 65 and as high as 94 with dose ranges of 15 mg kg 100 mg kg given 1 to 5 times per day or week. This was superior to QBI 119 both with respect to the percent of inhibition which was equal to or better than QBI 119 and the diversity of cancer cell types at which it was highly efficacious.

The ribonucleases of the present invention may be formulated in any desired form with or without other therapeutic agents carriers exipients or other components e.g. targeting moieties water soluble molecules and the like . The ribonucleases may be packaged into kits containing packaging and appropriate containers for shipment and or storage as therapeutic or research agents including preparation into dosage form for single or multiple doses for one or more patients.

The present invention further provides variants of SEQ ID NO 1 including amino acid variations that do not significantly alter one or more or any therapeutically relevant properties of the ribonuclease. Examples of these variants are set forth in more detail herein. For example it is contemplated that isolated replacement of a leucine with an isoleucine or valine an aspartate with a glutamate a threonine with a serine or a similar replacement of an amino acid with a structurally related amino acid i.e. conservative mutations will not have a major effect on the biological activity of the resulting molecule. Accordingly some embodiments of the present invention provide variants of ribonucleases disclosed herein containing conservative replacements. Conservative replacements are those that take place within a family of amino acids that are related in their side chains. Genetically encoded amino acids can be divided into four families 1 acidic aspartate glutamate 2 basic lysine arginine histidine 3 nonpolar alanine valine leucine isoleucine proline phenylalanine methionine tryptophan and 4 uncharged polar glycine asparagine glutamine cysteine serine threonine tyrosine . Phenylalanine tryptophan and tyrosine are sometimes classified jointly as aromatic amino acids. In similar fashion the amino acid repertoire can be grouped as 1 acidic aspartate glutamate 2 basic lysine arginine histidine 3 aliphatic glycine alanine valine leucine isoleucine serine threonine with serine and threonine optionally be grouped separately as aliphatic hydroxyl 4 aromatic phenylalanine tyrosine tryptophan 5 amide asparagine glutamine and 6 sulfur containing cysteine and methionine e.g. Stryer ed. pg. 17 21 2nd ed WH Freeman and Co. 1981 . Whether a change in the amino acid sequence of a peptide results in a functional polypeptide can be readily determined by assessing the ability of the variant peptide to function in a fashion similar to the wild type protein. Peptides having more than one replacement can readily be tested in the same manner.

More rarely a variant includes nonconservative changes e.g. replacement of a glycine with a tryptophan . Analogous minor variations can also include amino acid deletions or insertions or both. Guidance in determining which amino acid residues can be substituted inserted or deleted without abolishing biological activity can be found using computer programs including but not limited to FADE Mitchell et al. 2004 . Molec. Simul. 30 97 106 MAPS Ban et al. Proceedings of the 8th Annual International Conference on Research in Computational Molecular Biology 2004 205 212 SYBYL Tripos Inc St. Louis Mo. and PyMOL available on the Internet web site of sourceforge .

Crystal structures of RNase 1 are described for example in Pous et al. Acta Crystallogr D Biol Crystallogr. 2001 57 498 505 and Pous et al. J Mol Biol. 2000 303 49 60 and serve as the basis for selection of changes. In addition crystal structures are available for other human pancreatic ribonucleases including eosinophil derived neurotoxin EDN RNase 2 Swaminathan et al Biochemistry 2002 41 3341 3352 Mosimann et al J. Mol. Biol. 1996 260 540 552. Iyer et al J Mol Biol 2005 347 637 655 eosinophil cationic protein ECP RNase 3 Mohan et al Biochemistry 2002 41 12100 12106 Boix et al Biochemistry 1999 38 16794 16801. Mallorqui Fernandez et al J. Mol. Biol 2000 300 1297 1307 RNase 4 Terzyan et al 1999 285 205 214. and angiogenin RNase 5 Leonidas et al J. Mol. Biol. 1999 285 1209 1233 Leonidas et al Protein Sci. 2001 10 1669 1676 Papageorgiou et al EMBO J. 1997 16 5162 5177 Shapiro et al J. Mol. Biol. 2000 302 497 519. .

Variants may be produced by methods such as directed evolution or other techniques for producing combinatorial libraries of variants described in more detail below. In still other embodiments of the present invention the nucleotide sequences of the present invention may be engineered in order to alter a human RNase coding sequence including but not limited to alterations that modify the cloning processing localization secretion and or expression of the gene product. For example mutations may be introduced using techniques that are well known in the art e.g. site directed mutagenesis to insert new restriction sites alter glycosylation patterns or change codon preference etc. . In some embodiments changes are made in the nucleic acid sequence encoding a polypeptide of the present invention in order to optimize codon usage to the organism that the gene is expressed in.

Exemplary variants are described below including but not limited to substitutions truncations chimeras etc. The present invention is not limited to these particular variants. Both variants in the active site and substrate binding region and away from the active site are contemplated to be within the scope of the present invention. For example variants of SEQ ID NO 1 include the R4C G38R R39G N67R G89R S90R and V118C changes compared to normal human RNAse 1 but also contain one or more additional changes that either impact or do not impact one or more of the activities or properties of the enzyme. Variants may be selected based on for example experimental data computer modeling and by rational design by comparison to other ribonucleases. Activities may be tested using assays to select the variants with the desired properties see e.g. Raines et al. J. Biol. Chem 273 34134 1998 Fisher et al. Biochemistry 37 12121 1998 Guar et al. J. Biol. Chem. 276 24978 2001 Bosch et al. Biochemistry 43 2167 2004 Lin J. Biol. Chem. 245 6726 1970 Bal et al Eur. J. Biochem. 245 465 1997 Guar et al. Mol. Cell. Biochem. 275 95 2005 Benito et al. Protein Eng. 15 887 2002 Ribo et al. Biol. Chem. Hoppe seyler 375 357 1994 DiGaetano et al. Biochem. J. 358 241 2001 Trautwein et al. FEBS Lett. 281 277 1991 Curran et al. Biochemistry 32 2307 1993 Sorrentino et al. Biochemistry 42 10182 2003 herein incorporated by reference in their entireties .

Exemplary amino acid locations for modification in the production of variants are provided below. One or more sites may be modified as desired. The exemplary list below provides a ranking of the utility for modification of each amino acid position based on the amino acid numbering of a wild type human RNase 1 e.g. as represented by interest in modifying e.g. so as to result in a functional ribonuclease e.g. comprising a desired property e.g. cancer cell killing and or ribonucleolytic activity . An interest site may be characterized as a high interest site a medium interest site or a low interest site based on characteristics of the ribonuclease described herein e.g. biologic activity e.g. ribonucleolytic activity cancer cell killing activity oligomerization capacity etc. desired to be retained within the ribonuclease after modification of the same e.g. for deletion substitution or other type of mutation to create a ribonuclease variant and or for conjugation to a water soluble polymer . For example high interest sites are those that can be modified without significantly interfering with one or more desired activities or properties of the ribonuclease High interest 1 3 13 24 31 39 48 50 60 66 71 75 78 87 94 105 112 115 and 127 128 Medium interest 4 11 25 27 30 42 47 51 57 59 61 64 73 74 79 83 85 86 96 104 106 109 111 116 118 and 120 126 and Low interest 12 26 40 41 58 65 72 84 95 110 and 119 .

It will be appreciated that one or more modification sites may be used. Preferably the selected sites are high or medium interest sites. However one or more additional sites may be altered as desired and appropriate for the intended application. It should be noted that in some embodiments RNase is produced in such a way that a methionine e.g. that is not part of wild type human RNase is incorporated as the first amino acid of the protein e.g. via the methods used to produce the protein e.g. recombinant human ribonuclease e.g. produced in . Thus in some embodiments the numbering of amino acid residues depicted herein may be off by a numerical value of one e.g. if a methionine is incorporated into the protein then the numbering of the amino acid residues of the human RNases recited herein is off by 1 i.e. because a methionine is incorporated in position 1 the numbering of the amino acids depicted will be short by one e.g. the residue number 10 would actually be residue number 11 because of the methionine incorporated at position 1 . Similarly the positions depicted may also be applied to corresponding numerical positions other related ribonucleases.

In some embodiments the desired residues for modification e.g. deletion mutation etc. in the present invention are selected to avoid disruption of the tertiary structure and or stability of the ribonuclease. In some embodiments these residues are on the surface of the protein e.g. residues generally exposed to solvent e.g. water or buffer . For example in some embodiments the types of residues that are modified include but are not limited to amino acids that appear disordered in crystal structures residues that contact the ribonuclease inhibitor protein and amino acids not involved in tertiary structures e.g. alpha helices and beta sheets amino acids in loop regions between structures e.g. alpha helices and beta sheets as well as amino acids towards the end of the protein the N and C termini . In some embodiments additional amino acid residues are added to either the N or C terminus e.g. to generate a RNase analogue and or for conjugation of a water soluble polymer .

In some embodiments the present invention provides polymer conjugation of ribonucleases to increase its circulating half life in vivo while retaining ribonuleolytic activity or other desired function e.g. cancer cell killing . In some embodiments the ribonuclease is conjugated to a water soluble polymer in a region of the protein involved in evasion from ribonuclease inhibitor RI . In some preferred embodiments the ribonuclease is conjugated to a water soluble polymer in a region of the protein that is not involved in evasion from RI e.g. a region that has no impact on binding of the ribonuclease to the RI . Examples of regions that are not involved in evasion from RI include but are not limited to regions comprising amino acid residues at positions 1 49 75 or 113. Thus although an understanding of the mechanism is not necessary to practice the present invention and the present invention is not limited to any particular mechanism of action in some embodiments conjugation of a water soluble polymer to ribonuclease possessing biological activity e.g. cancer cell killing even though the conjugation does not assist the ribonuclease from evading the RI.

In some embodiments the present invention utilizes incorporation of a unique functional group in RNases for conjugation of a water soluble polymer. For example in some embodiments a cysteine molecule is engineered into a RNase e.g. without loss of ribonucleolytic acitivity or other desired function e.g. cancer cell killing capacity in order to provide a free thiol group for conjugation to a water soluble polymer. Free thiol groups are not found elsewhere in the RNase thereby providing the ability to generate a homogenous conjugation. In other embodiments recombinant DNA technology is utilized to provide modified or novel codons to incorporate non natural amino acids with orthogonal functionality into the RNase of interest e.g. without loss of ribonucleolytic activity .

In some embodiments ribonucleases are modified to include one or more amino acid residues such as for example lysine cysteine and or arginine in order to provide an attachment location for water soluble polymer e.g. to an atom within the side chain of the amino acid . Techniques for adding amino acid residues are well known to those of ordinary skill in the art See e.g. March Advanced Organic Chemistry Reactions Mechanisms and Structure 4th Ed. New York Wiley Interscience 1992 .

The present invention is not limited by the type of modification made to said ribonuclease described herein. In some embodiments the present invention is modified through the attachment of one or more moieties selected from the group comprising dextran carbohydrate albumin carrier protein and antibody e.g. a non targeting antibody used to extend the half life of the ribonuclease .

The present invention is not limited by the type of water soluble polymer utilized for conjugation to a human ribonuclease described herein. Indeed any biocompatible water soluble polymer may be used. In some embodiments the water soluble polymer is nonpeptidic nontoxic non naturally occurring and or biocompatible. A water soluble polymer is considered biocompatible if the beneficial effects associated with use of the polymer alone or with another substance e.g. conjugated to the ribonuclease in connection with living tissues e.g. administration to a patient outweighs any deleterious effects as evaluated by a clinician e.g. a physician . With respect to non immunogenicity a polymer is considered nonimmunogenic if the intended use of the polymer in vivo does not produce an undesired immune response e.g. the formation of antibodies or if an immune response is produced that such a response is not deemed clinically significant or important as evaluated by a clinician. Thus in some preferred embodiments the water soluble polymer is biocompatible and nonimmunogenic.

Water soluble polymers of the present invention are selected such that when attached to a human ribonuclease the polymer does not precipitate in an aqueous environment such as a physiological environment. In some embodiments the polymer is selected based upon the method of conjugation to the human ribonuclease protein. For example for methods utilizing reductive alkylation the polymer selected should have a single reactive aldehyde so that the degree of polymerization may be controlled. The polymer may be branched or unbranched. Preferably for therapeutic use of the end product preparation the polymer will be pharmaceutically acceptable. One skilled in the art will be able to select the desired polymer based on such considerations as whether the polymer protein conjugate will be used therapeutically and if so the desired dosage circulation time resistance to proteolysis and other considerations. For example these may be ascertained by assaying for ribonucleolytic activity of the conjugate in vitro using methods well known in the art.

The water soluble polymer may be selected from the group including but not limited to poly alkylene glycols such as polyethylene glycol PEG poly propylene glycol PPG copolymers of ethylene glycol and propylene glycol and the like poly oxyethylated polyol poly olefinic alcohol poly vinylpyrrolidone poly hydroxyalkylmethacrylamide poly hydroxyalkylmethacrylate poly saccharides poly .alpha. hydroxy acid poly vinyl alcohol polyphosphazene polyoxazoline poly N acryloylmorpholine and combinations of any of the foregoing.

The polymer may be linear e.g. alkoxy PEG or bifunctional PEG or branched. Furthermore the polymer may be multi armed e.g. forked PEG or PEG attached to a polyol core dendritic and or comprise degradable linkages. It is contemplated that the internal structure of the polymer can be organized in any of a number of different patterns e.g. patterns including but not limited to homopolymer alternating copolymer random copolymer block copolymer alternating tripolymer random tripolymer and block tripolymer .

Furthermore the polymer may be activated with a suitable activating group appropriate for coupling to a desired residue within the ribonuclease. An activated polymer refers to a polymer that possesses reactive groups for reaction with a ribonuclease. Examples of activated polymers and methods for their conjugation to proteins that are contemplated to be useful e.g. for conjugating a water soluble polymer to a human ribonuclease in the present invention are known in the art and are described in detail in Zalipsky Bioconjugate Chem 6 150 165 1995 Kinstler et al. Advanced Drug Delivery Reviews 54 477 485 2002 and Roberts et al. Advanced Drug Delivery Reviews 54 459 476 2002 each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

The polymer may be of any molecular weight. For example for polyethylene glycol a preferred molecular weight is between about 2 kDa and about 150 kDa the term about indicating that in preparations of polyethylene glycol some molecules will weigh more some less than the stated molecular weight . Other sizes may be used depending on the desired therapeutic profile e.g. the duration of sustained release desired the effects if any on biological activity the ease in handling the degree or lack of antigenicity and other known effects of the polyethylene glycol to a therapeutic composition of the present invention e.g. comprising a RNase protein or analog .

When polyethylene glycol PEG is utilized as the water soluble polymer PEG may have one of its termini capped with an inert group. For example the PEG molecule may be methoxy PEG also referred to as mPEG which is a form of PEG wherein one terminus of the polymer is a methoxy e.g. OCH group while the other terminus is a functional group e.g. hydroxyl that can be chemically modified and used for conjugation to a reactive group on a target protein e.g. human ribonuclease . In some embodiments a PEG polymer described in U.S. Pat. App. Pub. No. 20040235734 is used herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

In some embodiments the PEG polymer may comprise one or more weak or degradable linkages. For example a PEG polymer may comprise an ester linkage e.g. that may hydrolyze over time e.g. when present within a patient . In some embodiments hydrolysis of the PEG polymer comprising a degradable linkage produces two or more fragments e.g. of lower molecular weight than the parent molecule .

The present invention is not limited by the type of degradable linkage. Indeed a PEG polymer may comprise one or more of a variety of degradable linkages including but not limited to carbonate linkages imine linkages phosphate ester linkages hydrazone linkages acetal linkages orthoester linkages amide linkages urethane linkages peptide linkages and oligonucleotide linkages.

It is contemplated that the inclusion of one or more degradable linkages within the polymer itself provides an added mechanism to control the pharmacokinetic characteristics of the conjugates of the present invention. For example in some embodiments a RNase PEG conjugate of the present invention may be administered to a patient wherein the conjugate when administered possesses little to no enzymatic activity but when exposed to conditions such that the linkages degrade e.g. hydrolyze the ribonucleolytic activity of the enzyme is activated. Thus in some embodiments the degradable linkages within the PEG molecule can be used for increasing specificity and efficacy of the conjugate.

It is contemplated that the conjugates of the present invention may comprise a linkage between the polymer e.g. PEG and human ribonuclease protein. In some embodiments the linkage is a stable linkage e.g. amide linkage carbamate linkage amine linkage thioether sulfide linkage or carbamide linkage. In some embodiments the linkage is hydrolytically degradable e.g. to allow release of the RNase e.g. without a portion of the polymer e.g. PEG remaining on the RNase . The present invention is not limited by the type of degradable linkage utilized. Indeed a variety of linkages are contemplated herein including but not limited to carboxylate ester phosphate ester thiolester anhydrides acetals ketals acyloxyalkyl ether imines orthoesters peptides and oligonucleotides. These linkages may be prepared by modification of either the RNase protein e.g. at the C terminal carboxyl group or a hydroxyl group of an amino acid side chain and or the polymer e.g. using methods known in the art .

The proportion of water soluble polymer e.g. PEG to ribonuclease protein molecules may vary as may their concentrations in the reaction mixture. In general the optimum ratio e.g. in terms of efficiency of reaction e.g. to conjugate polymer to one two three four or more sites where there is little to no excess unreacted protein or polymer can be determined e.g. using the molecular weight of the polymer e.g. PEG selected conjugation chemistry utilized number of interest sites targeted etc. . For example in some embodiments a non specific conjugation reaction e.g. PEGylation reaction can be carried out followed by a later purification e.g. to separate RNases based upon the number of polymers e.g. PEGs conjugated to each RNase .

In some embodiments the conjugates are present within a composition. For example in some embodiments the composition comprises a plurality of conjugates wherein each protein comprises 1 3 water soluble polymers covalently attached to the protein. In some embodiments the composition comprises a plurality of conjugates wherein each protein comprise 1 2 3 4 5 6 or more polymers attached to the protein. In some embodiments the composition comprises a population of conjugates wherein the majority of conjugates e.g. greater than 65 greater than 70 greater than 75 greater than 80 greater than 85 greater than 90 greater than 95 greater than 97 greater than 98 greater than 99 are covalently attached to the same number e.g. 1 2 3 or more of polymers e.g. PEG molecules . In some embodiments 1 2 3 or more polymers are conjugated to an oligomerized ribonuclease. The present invention is not limited by the number of ribonuclease molecules present within an oligomer. Indeed a variety of oligomers may be conjugated to one or more water soluble polymers including but not limited to oligomers of two three four five six or even more ribonucleases. In some embodiments the present invention provides a composition comprising a plurality of RNases that comprise a single water soluble polymer e.g. that are monoPEGylated . In some embodiments the plurality of RNases comprise monomers dimers trimers and or higher order complexes i.e. oligomers of RNases.

In preferred embodiments the modified human ribonuclease proteins e.g. water soluble polymer RNase conjugates of the present invention retain a significant portion of enzymatic e.g. ribonucleolytic activity. In some embodiments the conjugate possesses from about 1 to about 95 of the enzymatic activity of the unmodified e.g. non conjugated ribonuclease. In some embodiments the conjugate possesses more activity than the unmodified ribonuclease. In some embodiments a modified human ribonuclease possesses about 1 5 10 15 20 30 40 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 97 99 100 or more relative to that of the unmodified parent ribonuclease possessing ribonucleolytic activity e.g. as measured in an in vitro assay well known to those of skill in the art .

In other preferred embodiments the modified human ribonuclease proteins e.g. water soluble polymer RNase conjugates of the present invention retain a significant portion of another desired property e.g. other than ribonucleolytic activity e.g. cancer cell killing capacity . Although an understanding of the mechanism is not necessary to practice the present invention and the present invention is not limited to any particular mechanism of action in some embodiments a modified human ribonuclease protein e.g. water soluble polymer RNase conjugate is capable of killing target cells e.g. cancer cells or microbially e.g. virally infected cells in the absence of e.g. less than 70 less than 60 less than 50 less than 40 less than 30 less than 20 less than 10 or less than 5 of unmodified ribonuclease ribonucleolytic activity e.g. due to other characteristics of the human ribonuclease protein .

The present invention is not limited by the method utilized for conjugating a water soluble polymer to a human ribonuclease of the present invention. Multiple types of chemistries are known in the art and may find use in the generation of the compositions of the present invention. These methods have been describe in detail See e.g. Zalipsky Bioconjugate Chem 6 150 165 1995 Kinstler et al. Advanced Drug Delivery Reviews 54 477 485 2002 and Roberts et al. Advanced Drug Delivery Reviews 54 459 476 2002 . In some embodiments the present invention utilizes a conjugation chemistry useful for conjugating an activated polymer of the present invention to a human ribonuclease.

For example for obtaining N terminally conjugated RNase e.g. N terminally PEGylated RNase reductive alkylation may be used. A method for attaching without a linking group between the polymer e.g. PEG and the protein moiety is described in Francis et al. In Stability of protein pharmaceuticals in vivo pathways of degradation and strategies for protein stabilization Eds. Ahern. T. and Manning M. C. Plenum N.Y. 1991 . In some embodiments a method involving the use of N hydroxy succinimidyl esters of carboxymethyl mPEG is used See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 824 784 issued Oct. 20 1998 hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety .

In some embodiments the PEG ribonuclease conjugate is purified after conjugation. The present invention is not limited by the type of purification process utilized. Indeed a variety of processes may be utilized including but not limited to gel filtration chromatography ion exchange chromatography hydrophobic interaction chromatography size exclusion chromatography and other methods well known in the art.

For example in some embodiments a water soluble polymer RNase conjugate can be purified to obtain one or more different types of conjugates e.g. a conjugate covalently bound to a single polymer . In some embodiments the products of a conjugation reaction are purified to obtain e.g. on average anywhere from 1 2 3 4 or more polymers e.g. PEGs per human ribonuclease. In some embodiments gel filtration chromatography is used to separate fractionate ribonucleases covalently attached to different numbers of polymers or to separate a conjugate from non conjugated protein or from non conjugated polymer. Gel filtration columns are well known in the art and available from multiple sources e.g. SUPERDEX and SEPHADEX columns from Amersham Biosciences Piscataway N.J. .

In some embodiments the present invention provides a composition comprising a water soluble polymer human ribonuclease conjugate. In some embodiments the composition is administered to a patient in order to treat cancer. Thus in some embodiments the present invention provides a method of treating cancer comprising administering a composition comprising a water soluble polymer human ribonuclease conjugate.

In some embodiments a therapeutic composition of the invention comprises an antibody and a ribonuclease. The antibody may provide cell or tissue specific targeting and or additional therapeutic benefits. The following table lists the mechanisms of some cancer therapeutic antibodies including three antibody conjugates that carry a toxic payload for lymphomas and leukemias. Drug Discovery Today Vol. 8 No. 11 Jun. 2003 . Two of the conjugates ZEVALIN and BEXXAR carry radioactive iodine as the toxin and the third MYLOTARG carries a cytotoxic antitumor antibiotic calicheaminin which is isolated from a bacterial fermentation. The Mylotarg antibody binds specifically to the CD33 antigen which is expressed on the surface of leukemic blasts that are found in more than 80 of patients with acute myeloid leukemia AML . The antibody in this conjugate has approximately 98.3 of its amino acid sequences derived from human origins.

Any of the targeting antibodies or agents used in these products may also be employed by the compositions and methods of the present invention.

Generally the most specific method for targeting toxins is the use of monoclonal antibodies or antibody fragments that are designed to recognize surface antigens specific to tumor cells. Because normal cells lack the surface antigens they are not targeted and killed by the toxin conjugate. Whole antibodies have two domains a variable domain that gives the antibody its affinity and binding specificity and a constant domain that interacts with other portions of the immune system to stimulate immune responses in the host organism. The variable domain is composed of the complementarity determining regions CDRs which bind to the antibody s target and a framework region that anchors the CDRs to the rest of the antibody and helps maintain CDR shape. The six CDR s in each antibody differ in length and sequence between different antibodies and are mainly responsible for the specificity recognition and affinity binding of the antibodies to their target markers.

In addition to antibody delivery vectors toxic molecules can be delivered to cancer cells using several other specific and non specific vectors including peptides polymers dendrimers liposomes polymeric nanoparticles and block copolymer micelles. For example peptides that bind to the leutinizing hormone releasing hormone have been used to target a small molecule toxin camptothecin to ovarian cancer cells Journal of Controlled Release 2003 91 61 73. .

Ribonucleases are effective toxins in human cells particularly against cancer cells. The following references each of which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety describe some chemical conjugates of ribonucleases to targeting proteins including proteins and antibodies Newton et al. 2001 Blood 97 2 528 35 Hursey et al. 2002 Leuk Lymphoma 43 5 953 9 Rybak et al. 1991 Journal of Biological Chemistry 266 31 21202 7 Newton et al. 1992 Journal of Biological Chemistry 267 27 19572 8 Jinno and Ueda 1996 Cancer Chemother Pharmacol 38 303 308 Yamamura et al. 2002 Eur J Surg 168 49 54 Jinno et al. 1996 Life Sci 58 1901 1908 Suzuki et al. 1999 Nature Biotechnology 17 3 265 70 Rybak et al. 1992 Cell Biophys 21 1 3 121 38 Jinno et al. 2002 Anticancer Res. 22 4141 4146.

In some embodiments the present invention provides recombinant constructs comprising a nucleic acid sequence that encodes one or more the amino acid sequences described herein. In some embodiments of the present invention the constructs comprise a vector such as a plasmid or viral vector into which a sequence of SEQ ID NO 2 or related sequence has been inserted in a forward or reverse orientation. In still other embodiments the heterologous structural sequence is assembled in appropriate phase with translation initiation and termination sequences.

In some embodiments of the present invention the appropriate DNA sequence is inserted into the vector using any of a variety of procedures. In general the DNA sequence is inserted into an appropriate restriction endonuclease site s by procedures known in the art. Large numbers of suitable vectors are known to those of skill in the art and are commercially available. Such vectors include but are not limited to the following vectors 1 Bacterial pQE70 pQE60 pQE 9 Qiagen pET 22b pET26b pET 30b Novagen brand EMD Chemicals pBS pD10 phagescript psiXl74 pbluescript SK pBSKS pNH8A pNH16a pNH18A pNH46A Stratagene ptrc99a pKK223 3 pKK233 3 pDR540 pRIT5 Pharmacia and 2 Eukaryotic pWLNEO pSV2CAT pOG44 PXT1 pSG Stratagene pSVK3 pBPV pMSG pSVL Pharmacia . Any other plasmid or vector may be used as long as they are replicable and viable in the host. In some embodiments of the present invention mammalian expression vectors comprise an origin of replication a suitable promoter and enhancer and also any necessary ribosome binding sites polyadenylation sites splice donor and acceptor sites transcriptional termination sequences and 5 flanking non transcribed sequences. In other embodiments DNA sequences derived from the SV40 splice and polyadenylation sites may be used to provide the required non transcribed genetic elements.

In certain embodiments of the present invention the DNA sequence in the expression vector is operatively linked to an appropriate expression control sequence s promoter to direct mRNA synthesis. Promoters useful in the present invention include but are not limited to the LTR or SV40 promoter the lac or trp the phage lambda PL and PR T3 and T7 promoters and the cytomegalovirus CMV immediate early herpes simplex virus HSV thymidine kinase and mouse metallothionein I promoters and other promoters known to control expression of gene in prokaryotic or eukaryotic cells or their viruses. In other embodiments of the present invention recombinant expression vectors include origins of replication and selectable markers permitting transformation of the host cell e.g. dihydrofolate reductase or neomycin resistance for eukaryotic cell culture or tetracycline kanamycin or ampicillin resistance in .

In some embodiments of the present invention transcription of the DNA encoding the polypeptides of the present invention by higher eukaryotes is increased by inserting an enhancer sequence into the vector. Enhancers are cis acting elements of DNA usually about from 10 to 300 by that act on a promoter to increase its transcription. Enhancers useful in the present invention include but are not limited to the SV40 enhancer on the late side of the replication origin by 100 to 270 a cytomegalovirus early promoter enhancer the polyoma enhancer on the late side of the replication origin and adenovirus enhancers.

In other embodiments the expression vector also contains a ribosome binding site for translation initiation and a transcription terminator. In still other embodiments of the present invention the vector may also include appropriate sequences for amplifying expression.

In a further embodiment the present invention provides host cells containing the above described constructs. In some embodiments of the present invention the host cell is a higher eukaryotic cell e.g. a mammalian or insect cell . In other embodiments of the present invention the host cell is a lower eukaryotic cell e.g. a yeast cell . In still other embodiments of the present invention the host cell can be a prokaryotic cell e.g. a bacterial cell . Specific examples of host cells include but are not limited to and various species within the genera and as well as Drosophila S2 cells Spodoptera Sf9 cells Chinese hamster ovary CHO cells COS 7 lines of monkey kidney fibroblasts Gluzman Cell 23 175 1981 C127 3T3 293 293T HeLa and BHK cell lines.

The constructs in host cells can be used in a conventional manner to produce the gene product encoded by the recombinant sequence. In some embodiments introduction of the construct into the host cell can be accomplished by calcium phosphate transfection DEAE Dextran mediated transfection transformation or electroporation. Alternatively in some embodiments of the present invention the polypeptides of the invention can be synthetically produced by conventional peptide synthesizers.

Proteins can be expressed in mammalian cells yeast bacteria or other cells under the control of appropriate promoters. Cell free translation systems can also be employed to produce such proteins using RNAs derived from the DNA constructs of the present invention. Appropriate cloning and expression vectors for use with prokaryotic and eukaryotic hosts are described by Sambrook et al. Molecular Cloning A Laboratory Manual Second Edition Cold Spring Harbor N.Y. 1989 .

In some embodiments of the present invention following transformation of a suitable host strain and growth of the host strain to an appropriate cell density the selected promoter is induced by appropriate means e.g. temperature shift or chemical induction and cells are cultured for an additional period. In other embodiments of the present invention cells are typically harvested by centrifugation disrupted by physical or chemical means and the resulting crude extract retained for further purification. In still other embodiments of the present invention microbial cells employed in expression of proteins can be disrupted by any convenient method including freeze thaw cycling sonication mechanical disruption or use of cell lysing agents.

An example of a suitable recombinant product method involves use of a plasmid conferring drug resistance such as ampicillin e.g. pET22b or kanamycin e.g. pET 26b pET 30b and containing the gene coding for the ribonuclease protein. The plasmid harboring the gene is transformed into an cell line. Cells that can be used include but are not limited to B or K strain and the related mutant strains such as HB101 JM109 DHa5 BL 21AI and BL21DE3. Expression of the ribonuclease protein can be induced during fermentation by addition of carbohydrates such as arabinose or lactose or their analogues including isopropyl beta D thiogalactopyranoside IPTG . The ribonuclease protein can be produced as a soluble product or in inclusion bodies. For soluble production the protein is isolated and purified as below using column chromatography. For inclusion body production the cells are mechanically enzymatically or and chemically lysed. The cell pellet containing the inclusion bodies is separated from the soluble material by multiple methods including diafiltration or centrifugation. The inclusion bodies are solubilized with a denaturant such as urea or guanidine hydrochloride. Reducing agents such as low molecular weight thiols e.g. dithiothreitol or tris 2 carboxyethyl phosphine can be added. Addition of acid causes precipitate to form that can be removed from the solution by filtration and or centrifugation.

The protein is folded by changing to a buffer that may include a variety of agents to assist in protein folding. Examples of such reagents include arginine polyethylene glycol sulfobetaines detergents organic salts and or chaotropes. The buffer is changed again for compatibility with the first column chromatography step and precipitate can be removed by filtration or centrifugation. The column steps include anion exchange cation exchange and hydrophobic interaction. Examples of anion exchange resins include but are not limited to Q Sepharose XL UNO Q 1 Poros 50 HQ Toyopearl QAE 550c Separon HemaBio 1000Q Q Cellthru Bigbeads Plus Q Sepharose HP Toyopearl SuperQ 650s Macro Prep 25Q TSK Gel Q 5PW HR Poros QE M Q Sepharose FF Q HyperD 20 Q Zirconia Source 30Q Fractogel EMD TMAE 650s and Express Ion Q. Examples of cation exchange resins include but are not limited to SP Sepharose XL Poros 50 HS Toyopearl SP 550c SP Sepharose BB Source 30S TSKGe1 SP 5PW HR20 Toyopearl SP 650c Heparin Sepharose FF SP Sepharose FF CM Sepharose FF Heparin Toyopearl 650m SP Toyopearl 650m CM Toyopearl 650m Ceramic Heparin HyperD M Ceramic S HyperD 20 and Ceramic CM HyperD F. Examples of hydrophobic interaction resins include but are not limited to TSK gel Phenyl 5PW TSK gel Ether 5PW TSK gel Butyl NPR Toyopearl Butyl 650S Toyopearl Ether 650S Toyopearl Phenyl 650S Toyopearl Butyl 650M Toyopearl Ether 650M Toyopearl Phenyl 650M Butyl Sepharose 4 FF Octyl Sepharose 4 FF Octyl Sepharose CL 4B and Phenyl Sepharose 6 FF high or low substitution . The final product is exchanged into a neutral buffer for long term storage.

In some embodiments the compositions and methods of the present invention are used to treat diseased cells tissues organs or pathological conditions and or disease states in a subject organism e.g. a mammalian subject including but not limited to humans and veterinary animals or in in vitro and or ex vivo cells tissues and organs. In this regard various diseases and pathologies are amenable to treatment or prophylaxis using the present methods and compositions. A non limiting exemplary list of these diseases and conditions includes but is not limited to breast cancer prostate cancer lymphoma skin cancer pancreatic cancer colon cancer melanoma malignant melanoma ovarian cancer brain cancer primary brain carcinoma head neck cancer glioma glioblastoma liver cancer bladder cancer non small cell lung cancer head or neck carcinoma breast carcinoma ovarian carcinoma lung carcinoma small cell lung carcinoma Wilms tumor cervical carcinoma testicular carcinoma bladder carcinoma pancreatic carcinoma stomach carcinoma colon carcinoma prostatic carcinoma genitourinary carcinoma thyroid carcinoma esophageal carcinoma myeloma multiple myeloma adrenal carcinoma renal cell carcinoma endometrial carcinoma adrenal cortex carcinoma malignant pancreatic insulinoma malignant carcinoid carcinoma choriocarcinoma mycosis fungoides malignant hypercalcemia cervical hyperplasia leukemia acute lymphocytic leukemia chronic lymphocytic leukemia acute myelogenous leukemia chronic myelogenous leukemia chronic granulocytic leukemia acute granulocytic leukemia hairy cell leukemia neuroblastoma rhabdomyosarcoma Kaposi s sarcoma polycythemia vera essential thrombocytosis Hodgkin s disease non Hodgkin s lymphoma soft tissue sarcoma osteogenic sarcoma primary macroglobulinemia and retinoblastoma and the like T and B cell mediated autoimmune diseases inflammatory diseases infections hyperproliferative diseases AIDS degenerative conditions vascular diseases and the like. In some embodiments the cancer cells being treated are metastatic. In other embodiments the RNases of the present invention target cancer stem cells.

In subjects who are determined to be at risk of having cancer the compositions of the present invention are administered to the subject preferably under conditions effective to decrease angiogenesis proliferation and or induce killing e.g. apoptosis of cancer cells in the event that they develop.

The present invention further provides pharmaceutical compositions e.g. comprising the cell killing compositions described above . The pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention may be administered in a number of ways depending upon whether local or systemic treatment is desired and upon the area to be treated. Administration may be topical including ophthalmic and to mucous membranes including vaginal and rectal delivery pulmonary e.g. by inhalation or insufflation of powders or aerosols including by nebulizer intratracheal intranasal epidermal and transdermal oral or parenteral. Parenteral administration includes intravenous intraarterial subcutaneous intraperitoneal or intramuscular injection or infusion or intracranial e.g. intrathecal or intraventricular administration.

Pharmaceutical compositions and formulations for topical administration may include transdermal patches ointments lotions creams gels drops suppositories sprays liquids and powders. Conventional pharmaceutical carriers aqueous powder or oily bases thickeners and the like may be necessary or desirable.

Compositions and formulations for oral administration include powders or granules suspensions or solutions in water or non aqueous media capsules sachets or tablets. Thickeners flavoring agents diluents emulsifiers dispersing aids or binders may be desirable.

Compositions and formulations for parenteral intrathecal or intraventricular administration may include sterile aqueous solutions that may also contain buffers diluents and other suitable additives such as but not limited to penetration enhancers carrier compounds and other pharmaceutically acceptable carriers or excipients.

Pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention include but are not limited to solutions emulsions and liposome containing formulations. These compositions may be generated from a variety of components that include but are not limited to preformed liquids self emulsifying solids and self emulsifying semisolids.

The pharmaceutical formulations of the present invention which may conveniently be presented in unit dosage form may be prepared according to conventional techniques well known in the pharmaceutical industry. Such techniques include the step of bringing into association the active ingredients with the pharmaceutical carrier s or excipient s . In general the formulations are prepared by uniformly and intimately bringing into association the active ingredients with liquid carriers or finely divided solid carriers or both and then if necessary shaping the product.

The compositions of the present invention may be formulated into any of many possible dosage forms such as but not limited to tablets capsules liquid syrups soft gels suppositories and enemas. The compositions of the present invention may also be formulated as suspensions in aqueous non aqueous or mixed media. Aqueous suspensions may further contain substances that increase the viscosity of the suspension including for example sodium carboxymethylcellulose sorbitol and or dextran. The suspension may also contain stabilizers.

In one embodiment of the present invention the pharmaceutical compositions may be formulated and used as foams. Pharmaceutical foams include formulations such as but not limited to emulsions microemulsions creams jellies and liposomes. While basically similar in nature these formulations vary in the components and the consistency of the final product.

The preferred method of administration is by intravenous or IP injection. It is alternatively possible to use injection into the tumor to be treated. In some embodiments administration is continued as an adjuvant treatment for an additional period e.g. several days to several months .

The compositions of the present invention may additionally contain other adjunct components conventionally found in pharmaceutical compositions. Thus for example the compositions may contain additional compatible pharmaceutically active materials such as for example antipruritics astringents local anesthetics or anti inflammatory agents or may contain additional materials useful in physically formulating various dosage forms of the compositions of the present invention such as dyes flavoring agents preservatives antioxidants opacifiers thickening agents and stabilizers. However such materials when added should not unduly interfere with the biological activities of the components of the compositions of the present invention. The formulations can be sterilized and if desired mixed with auxiliary agents e.g. lubricants preservatives stabilizers wetting agents emulsifiers salts for influencing osmotic pressure buffers colorings flavorings and or aromatic substances and the like which do not deleteriously interact with the active pharmaceutical agents of the formulation.

In some preferred embodiments a ribonuclease is co administered with other medical interventions either simultaneously or sequentially. For example for cancer therapy any oncolytic agent that is routinely used in a cancer therapy may be co administered with the compositions and methods of the present invention. For example the U.S. Food and Drug Administration maintains a formulary of oncolytic agents approved for use in the United States. International counterpart agencies to the U.S.F.D.A. maintain similar formularies. Table 2 provides a list of exemplary antineoplastic agents approved for use in the U.S. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the product labels required on all U.S. approved chemotherapeutics describe approved indications dosing information toxicity data and the like for the exemplary agents. It is contemplated that in some cases co administration with the compositions of the present invention permits lower doses of such compounds thereby reducing toxicity.

In some embodiments the RNase of the present invention or a variant thereof is delivered to a target cell using complementation. For example in some embodiments two or more fragments of RNase are delivered separately to a cell. The fragments re associate to form a functional enzyme. In some embodiments two protein fragments are delivered. In other embodiments vectors comprising nucleic acids encoding fragments of RNase are introduced into a cell or organism separately.

Suitable fragments for delivery by complementation may be determined by screening fragments e.g. in a cell culture assay for activity. Preferred fragments are those that rapidly re associate to form a functional enzyme. Enzyme activity can be determined using any suitable method including but not limited to those disclosed herein.

In some embodiments the present invention utilizes digestion of RNases to produce S peptide and S protein See e.g. Hamachi et al. Bioorg Med Chem Lett 9 1215 1218 1999 Goldberg and Baldwin Proc Natl Acad Sci 96 2019 2024 1999 Asai et al. J Immun Meth 299 63 76 2005 Backer et al. J Cont Release 89 499 511 2003 Backer et al. Bioconj Chem 15 1021 1029 2004 . For example digestion of bovine RNase A by subtilisin results primarily in two fragments due to cleavage between A1a20 and Ser21. The shorter fragment amino acids 1 20 is referred to as S peptide whereas the longer fragment amino acids 20 124 is referred to as S protein. The two fragments bind tightly at neutral pH and are sometime referred to as RNase S or RNase S . RNase S is an active ribonuclease. The S peptide S protein interaction has been used for affinity purification as well as in tertiary docking systems to target imaging agents or drugs. Thus in some embodiments the present invention provides S peptide S protein for human ribonucleases.

In some embodiments the RNase of the present invention or a variant thereof is provided as a nucleic acid encoding the RNase. Introduction of molecules carrying genetic information into cells is achieved by any of various methods including but not limited to directed injection of naked DNA constructs bombardment with gold particles loaded with said constructs and macromolecule mediated gene transfer using for example liposomes biopolymers and the like. Preferred methods use gene delivery vehicles derived from viruses including but not limited to adenoviruses retroviruses vaccinia viruses and adeno associated viruses. Because of the higher efficiency as compared to retroviruses vectors derived from adenoviruses are the preferred gene delivery vehicles for transferring nucleic acid molecules into host cells in vivo. Adenoviral vectors have been shown to provide very efficient in vivo gene transfer into a variety of solid tumors in animal models and into human solid tumor xenografts in immune deficient mice. Examples of adenoviral vectors and methods for gene transfer are described in PCT publications WO 00 12738 and WO 00 09675 and U.S. Pat. Appl. Nos. 6 033 908 6 019 978 6 001 557 5 994 132 5 994 128 5 994 106 5 981 225 5 885 808 5 872 154 5 830 730 and 5 824 544 each of which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Vectors may be administered to subject in a variety of ways. For example in some embodiments of the present invention vectors are administered into tumors or tissue associated with tumors using direct injection. In other embodiments administration is via the blood or lymphatic circulation See e.g. PCT publication 99 02685 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety . Exemplary dose levels of adenoviral vector are preferably 10to 10vector particles added to the perfusate.

Dosing is dependent on severity and responsiveness of the disease state to be treated with the course of treatment lasting from several days to several months or until a cure is effected or a diminution of the disease state is achieved. Optimal dosing schedules can be calculated from measurements of drug accumulation in the body of the patient. The administering physician can easily determine optimum dosages dosing methodologies and repetition rates. Optimum dosages may vary depending on the relative potency of individual pharmaceutical compositions and can generally be estimated based on ECs found to be effective in in vitro and in vivo animal models or based on the examples described herein. In general dosage is from 0.01 g to 100 g per kg of body weight for example between 0.1 and 1000 mg per kg of body weight preferably between 0.1 and 500 mg kg of body weight and still more preferably between 0.1 and 200 mg kg of body weight e.g. between 1 and 100 mg kg for a period of between 1 and 240 minutes e.g. between 2 and 60 minutes and preferably between 15 and 45 minutes . Dosages may be administered as often as need to obtain the desired effect e.g. reduction of tumor size or number of cancerous cells for example once or more daily to once or more weekly or monthly. In some embodiments the compositions are administered weekly at a dose of between 0.1 and 10 mg e.g. 1 mg for a period of between 5 and 60 minutes e.g. 30 minutes . The treating physician can estimate repetition rates for dosing based on measured residence times and concentrations of the drug in bodily fluids or tissues. Following successful treatment it may be desirable to have the subject undergo maintenance therapy to prevent the recurrence of the disease state once or more daily to once every 20 years. In some preferred embodiments dosages are 0.25 1000 mg kg daily weekly or monthly to achieve the desired therapeutic effect. In some preferred embodiments dosages are 50 mcg mto 400 mcg mdaily weekly or monthly to achieve the desired therapeutic effect. Drugs are also sometimes dosed in units of activity per dose as opposed to amount weight of drug.

All publications patents patent applications and sequences identified by accession numbers mentioned in the above specification are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety. Although the invention has been described in connection with specific embodiments it should be understood that the invention as claimed should not be unduly limited to such specific embodiments. Modifications and variations of the described compositions and methods of the invention that do not significantly change the functional features of the compositions and methods described herein are intended to be within the scope of the following claims.

