---

title: Reuse of on-demand enterprise system customization knowledge utilizing collective experience
abstract: Systems and methods allow sharing and reuse of acquired customization knowledge of enterprise systems, utilizing collective customization experience. Particular embodiments employ Case-Based Reasoning (CBR) principles to manage customization experience in the context of both Software as a Service (SaaS) and Platform as a Service (PaaS) environments. Collective customization knowledge may be explicitly retrieved, adapted, shared, reused, and/or traded between tenants, partners, and optionally provider(s), of on-demand enterprise systems. A previous customization case stored within an experience base, may include one or more of the following: information allowing annotation of price information for trading the previous customization case (e.g. to another tenant); information restricting visibility of the previous customization case within the experience base; information defining a rating for the previous customization case within a community; information capturing a reuse frequency of the previous customization case; and/or information rendering anonymous at least a portion of the previous customization case.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09390375&OS=09390375&RS=09390375
owner: SAP SE
number: 09390375
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20150106
---
Despite the advances in Service Oriented Architectures SOA the integration of complementary services into standard enterprise systems requires deep expert knowledge. Typically the integration of services provided by partners or independent software vendors is carried out in time and cost intensive integration projects.

In most cases extension or adaptation of a core enterprise system itself is required. In order to extend or adapt standard enterprise systems a very high level of business domain knowledge as well as technical expert knowledge are required. Therefore services are typically integrated by highly specialized expert consultants system or service integrators .

System integrators typically start from scratch while integrating services into standard enterprise systems. Given a new integration problem system integrators implicitly and manually search for similar problems they solved in the past e.g. by searching in code fragments or documentations of already solved integration solutions. This implies a high degree of manual work and therefore leads to high integration costs.

Systems and methods allow sharing and reuse of acquired customization knowledge of enterprise systems utilizing collective customization experience. Particular embodiments employ Case Based Reasoning CBR principles to manage customization experience in the context of both Software as a Service SaaS and Platform as a Service PaaS environments. Collective customization knowledge may be explicitly retrieved adapted shared reused and or traded between tenants partners and optionally provider s of on demand enterprise systems. A previous customization case stored within an experience base may include one or more of the following information allowing annotation of price information for trading the previous customization case e.g. to another tenant information restricting visibility of the previous customization case within the experience base information defining a rating for the previous customization case within a community information capturing a reuse frequency of the previous customization case and or information rendering anonymous at least a portion of the previous customization case.

An embodiment of a method comprises providing an experience base comprising a stored customization case previously used by a first entity to customize an enterprise system wherein the stored customization case includes a customization problem and a customization solution. A query is received from a second entity the query comprising an unsolved enterprise customization case the unsolved enterprise customization case having a new customization problem and not having a customization solution. A case based reasoning engine is caused to reference the experience base and generate a similarity measure between the new customization problem and the stored customization case. The similarity measure is displayed to the second entity prior to adapting the customization solution for the unsolved customization case.

An embodiment of a non transitory computer readable storage medium embodies a computer program for performing a method said method comprising providing an experience base comprising a stored customization case previously used by a first entity to customize an enterprise system wherein the stored customization case includes a customization problem and a customization solution. A query is received from a second entity the query comprising an unsolved enterprise customization case the unsolved enterprise customization case having a new customization problem and not having a customization solution. A case based reasoning engine is caused to reference the experience base and generate a similarity measure between the new customization problem and the stored customization case. The similarity measure is displayed to the second entity prior to adapting the customization solution for the unsolved customization case.

An embodiment of a computer system comprises one or more computer processors and a non transitory computer readable storage medium. The non transitory computer readable storage medium comprising instructions for controlling the one or more computer processors to be operable to access an experience base comprising a stored customization case previously used by a first entity to customize an enterprise system wherein the stored customization case includes a customization problem and a customization solution. The non transitory computer readable storage medium further comprises instructions for receiving from a second entity a query comprising an unsolved enterprise customization case the unsolved enterprise customization case having a new customization problem and not having a customization solution. The non transitory computer readable storage medium further comprises comprising instructions for causing a case based reasoning engine to reference the experience base and generate a similarity measure between the new customization problem and the stored customization case. The non transitory computer readable storage medium comprising instructions for displaying the similarity measure to the second entity prior to adapting the customization solution for the unsolved customization case.

According to certain embodiments a case based reasoning engine comprises an add on to a Platform as a Service PaaS component of the enterprise system.

In particular embodiments the first entity and or the second entity are tenants of the enterprise system.

According to some embodiments the stored customization case includes information allowing annotation of price information for trading.

Particular embodiments may further comprise storing the new customization problem and an adapted customization solution as a new customization case.

In certain embodiments the stored customization case includes information configured to restrict visibility of the stored customization case within the experience base define a rating for the stored customization case within a community capture a reuse frequency of the stored customization case and or render anonymous at least a portion of the stored customization case.

The following detailed description and accompanying drawings provide a better understanding of the nature and advantages of certain embodiments.

Described herein are techniques for sharing customization knowledge. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous examples and specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the present invention. Particular embodiments as defined by the claims may include some or all of the features in these examples alone or in combination with other features described below and may further include modifications and equivalents of the features and concepts described herein.

In one example the service integrator inputs a new integration problem that includes a problem description into case based retrieval framework . The integration problem may be considered an integration case also. However the term integration problem is used for discussion purposes and is an integration cases that does not include a solution. Case based retrieval framework searches knowledge base to determine integration cases that have been previously solved. Case based retrieval framework outputs the integration cases based on the similarity to the new integration problem. The service integrator may then use the integration cases which include a problem description and problem solution to determine the solution for the new integration problem.

In one embodiment case based retrieval framework is used when an extension to a standard enterprise system is being performed. Such a standard enterprise system is also referred to herein a packaged enterprise software. A standard enterprise system may be a standard software system such as an enterprise resource planning ERP customer relationship management CRM supply chain management SCM or supplier relationship management SRM system. The standard enterprise system may be sent to a variety of companies. Each company may want to adapt or extend the standard enterprise system. For example certain customizations may be performed such as by adding new service integrator interface UI elements to core UI components adding new process steps to core process models or even extending business objects with additional fields.

In one embodiment the system integrator may want to integrate a complementary service into the standard enterprise system. The integration problem may be described based on different categories that define the problem such as the categories of an integration goal an integration context and integration requirements. Based on the problem description case based retrieval framework searches knowledge base for similar integration cases that have already been solved in the past using a case retrieval algorithm. A list of existing integration cases is generated and output to the system integrator. The list contains integration cases that are ranked according to their computed similarity to the integration problem currently.

Once selected an integration case may be adapted to the integration problem that is trying to be solved. Embodiments of the present invention relate to a framework for performing this adaptation.

Particular embodiments use case based reasoning for determining the integration cases. depicts a case based reasoning cycle for service integration according to one embodiment. Particular embodiments focus on an adapt integration solution phase. However the entire cycle will be described.

At a new integration case is initiated. At an integration goal phase is performed. The integration goal defines the general goal that should be reached by the integration solution. For example the goal may indicate what kind of target system should be extended what kind of customizing flexibility use case should be implemented or what kind of integration flavor should be implemented e.g. a service integrator interface or process extension . As will be described below the integration goal may be defined using a wizard based questionnaire.

At a define integration context phase is performed. The integration context defines the functional area within the enterprise system where the service should be integrated. For example the functional area may be core UI or process components that need to be extended to integrate the service. The context may be a service context and or a target system context. The service context is associated with the provider of the service and describes the context of a service that may be integrated. For example the service may be provided by an outside provider and or the enterprise. The service context may define what service should be integrated or what are the business semantics of the service.

The target system context is a consumer context that is the context associated with the customized enterprise system. The target system context determines which functional area of the enterprise system the service should be integrated business semantics or what components in the enterprise system should be extended e.g. UI and or process components . The integration context may be defined using a wizard based questionnaire as will be described below.

At a define integration requirements phase is performed. The integration requirements may be grouped into different categories that may describe requirements for the integration solution. For example the categories may be UI extension requirements process extension requirements business logic extension requirements technical integration requirements and non functional integration requirements. These integration requirements may be defined using the wizard based questionnaire and will be described in more detail below.

At a retrieve similar integration cases phase is performed. In this phase existing integration cases that have problem descriptions that are considered most similar to the problem description of the new integration problem are determined and output. The similarity is computed using a range of different similarity measures. The different types of similarity measures may depend on different attributes defined in the new integration problem. Customization of weights for the different similarity measures may be provided and are described below.

At an adapt integration solution phase is performed. A similar integration case that is output may be selected and re used as a template to be adapted with respect to the new integration problem. In one embodiment a problem solution part of a similar case may be extracted and adapted to the new application context of the new integration problem to be solved. The integration solution may be modeled using adaptation patterns that may link patterns to extension points of service elements add patterns delete patterns and replace patterns. The adaptation integration solution phase is described in more detail below in connection with .

At a revised integration solution phase is performed. In this phase the adapted or solved new integration case is validated as to whether it meets the integration requirements. The criteria may include the correctness of the solution and quality of the solution.

At a retain integration case phase is performed. After the solved new integration problem has been validated an integration case with the problem description and the solution is stored in knowledge base . This case may be used in future cases to solve other integration problems. For example case based retrieval framework may learn by the learning of a new experience new integration case learning of similarity knowledge e.g. weights or learning of adaptation knowledge.

Case representation meta model provides metadata that describes categories for a customization case. For example shows different categories included in a customization case according to one embodiment. Broadly customization case includes a customization problem and a customization solution .

Customization problem is a description of the problem for the customization case. For example a description of the problem may be what extension needs to be performed on the standard enterprise system. Customization problem covers information to decide if this case is applicable for a new customization problem query case . In one embodiment the content includes the goal to be achieved by the customization solution the context of the problem situation and requirements constraints for the customization solution.

Customization solution is the solution for the problem. The solution for the problem may be how to extend enhance and or modify the standard enterprise system. Customization solution includes information that describes a solution to the integration problem sufficiently. For example the information includes the solution itself e.g. integration models substantiated adaptation patterns extended core models other documentation possible alternative solutions feedback solution evaluation and justification explanations.

At the specific categories for integration case are shown. The meta model includes a problem description corresponding to customization problem and a problem solution corresponding to integration solution .

Problem description includes different attributes that can be defined for the problem. Although the attributes included in problem description are described case based retrieval framework is designed in such a way that it is possible to flexibly add further attributes and similarity measures. The attributes outlined are just examples. The integration goal description includes attributes that may define the enterprise system that should be extended define the customizing or flexibility use case that should be implemented or define the principle integration flavor of the service in the target consumption environment of the enterprise system.

Different attributes are described in Table 1 in Appendix A. The attributes of Appendix A are only examples however and the case description itself is extensible in the sense that further attributes can be added. The adaptation procedure discussed in detail below may utilize one or more of these attributes to compute the differences between the query and retrieved customization case.

The integration context description describes the service that should be integrated into the enterprise system and defines the business semantics of the service to be integrated. Also in an enterprise system context the business semantics of the target components in the enterprise system that should be extended by the new service the target UI components of the enterprise system that should be extended adapted and the target process components of the enterprise system that should be extended adapted may be defined. Different attributes for the integration context specification are described in Table 2 of Appendix A.

The integration requirements specification includes different categories of UI extension requirements process extension requirements business logic extension requirements technical integration requirements and non functional requirements. UI extension requirements define how an existing UI component of the standard enterprise system should be extended in order to integrate the complementary service delivered by a third party provider e.g. ISV .

UI extension requirements are the requirements that define what is needed to extend the UI. UI extension requirements that define a textual description of the integration requirements how the service should be triggered within a UI component whether the UI component needs to be extended with additional UI controls and whether the UI component needs to be extended with additional UI controls to gather information that is required to call the service or show display result values of the service implication. Table 3 of Appendix A shows different attributes for the UI extension requirements specification.

Process extension requirements define how an existing process component of the standard enterprise system should be extended in order to integrate the complementary service delivered by a third party provider e.g. ISV . Process extension requirements may define the initiator of a process extension scenario a position with respect to a process where the extension process should be plugged in whether data should flow from a core process to an extension process whether data should flow from the extension process to the core process the communication mode between the core process and the extension process whether multiple core processes are involved in the integration scenario and whether multiple extension processes are involved in the integration scenario may be defined. Table 4 of Appendix A describes different attributes for process extension requirements.

Business logic extension requirements define how the existing business or application logic of the standard enterprise system should be extended in order to integrate the complementary service delivered by a third party provider e.g. ISV . Business logic extension requirements may define different attributes that may be associated with the business logic of an application. For example the different attributes may define whether data returned from a service should be persistent in the enterprise system whether the integration logic has to read data from the enterprise system whether the integration logic has to write data into the enterprise system whether the integration logic needs to access additional business logic on the enterprise system whether an interactive service integrator task is required in the integration logic whether a human service integrator task is required in the integration logic whether a customizing parameter has to be set adjusted in the enterprise system and whether a new customizing parameter has to be added to the enterprise system. Table 5 of Appendix A describes attributes in the business logic extension requirements.

External service integration requirements describe requirements that are used to define how to integrate external services. The attributes define whether standard business to business B2B protocols should be used for the communication with the external service and which technical communication protocols should be used for the communication with the external service. Table 6 of Appendix A shows different attributes for the external service integration requirements.

Non functional integration requirements define non functional constraints that the extension logic defined by the service integrator should fulfill. Non functional integration requirements define whether the integration logic needs to authenticate in the communication with the external service whether the communication is performance critical and if caching mechanisms are required whether the communication with the external service should be logged whether the messages sent to the service or received from the service should be encrypted whether the messages sent to the service or received from the service should be digitally signed and whether some specific transaction handling is required. Table 7 of Appendix A shows different attributes for non functional integration requirements.

A previous integration customization case stored within an experience base for possible reuse may further include one or more of the following pieces of information information allowing annotation of price information for trading the previous customization case e.g. to another tenant information restricting visibility of the previous customization case within the experience base information defining a rating for the previous customization case within a community information capturing a reuse frequency of the previous customization case and or information rendering anonymous at least a portion of the previous customization case.

Case representation meta model provides metadata that describes categories for an integration case. For example shows different categories included in an integration case according to one embodiment. Broadly integration case includes an integration problem and an integration solution .

Integration problem is a description of the problem for the integration case. For example a description of the problem may be what extension needs to be performed on the standard enterprise system. Integration problem covers all the information needed to decide if this case is applicable for a new integration problem query case . In one embodiment the content includes the goal to be achieved by the integration solution the context of the problem situation and requirements constraints for the integration solution.

Integration solution is the solution for the problem. The solution for the problem may be how to extend the standard enterprise system. Integration solution includes information that describes a solution to the integration problem sufficiently. For example the information includes the solution itself e.g. integration models substantiated adaptation patterns extended core models other documentation possible alternative solutions feedback solution evaluation and justification explanations.

At the specific categories for integration case are shown. The meta model includes a problem description corresponding to integration problem and a problem solution corresponding to integration solution .

Problem description includes different attributes that can be defined for the problem. Although the attributes included in problem description are described case based retrieval framework is designed in such a way that it is possible to flexibly add further attributes and similarity measures. The attributes outlined are just examples. The integration goal description includes attributes that may define the enterprise system that should be extended define the customizing or flexibility use case that should be implemented or define the principle integration flavor of the service in the target consumption environment of the enterprise system. Different attributes are described in Table 1 in Appendix A.

The integration context description describes the service that should be integrated into the enterprise system and defines the business semantics of the service to be integrated. Also in an enterprise system context the business semantics of the target components in the enterprise system that should be extended by the new service the target UI components of the enterprise system that should be extended adapted and the target process components of the enterprise system that should be extended adapted may be defined. Different attributes for the integration context specification are described in Table 2 of Appendix A.

The integration requirements specification includes different categories of UI extension requirements process extension requirements business logic extension requirements technical integration requirements and non functional requirements.

UI extension requirements define how an existing UI component of the standard enterprise system should be extended in order to integrate the complementary service delivered by a third party provider e.g. ISV .

UI extension requirements are the requirements that define what is needed to extend the UI. UI extension requirements that define a textual description of the integration requirements how the service should be triggered within a UI component whether the UI component needs to be extended with additional UI controls and whether the UI component needs to be extended with additional UI controls to gather information that is required to call the service or show display result values of the service implication. Table 3 of Appendix A shows different attributes for the UI extension requirements specification.

Process extension requirements define how an existing process component of the standard enterprise system should be extended in order to integrate the complementary service delivered by a third party provider e.g. ISV . Process extension requirements may define the initiator of a process extension scenario a position with respect to a process where the extension process should be plugged in whether data should flow from a core process to an extension process whether data should flow from the extension process to the core process the communication mode between the core process and the extension process whether multiple core processes are involved in the integration scenario and whether multiple extension processes are involved in the integration scenario may be defined. Table 4 of Appendix A describes different attributes for process extension requirements.

Business logic extension requirements define how the existing business or application logic of the standard enterprise system should be extended in order to integrate the complementary service delivered by a third party provider e.g. ISV .

Business logic extension requirements may define different attributes that may be associated with the business logic of an application. For example the different attributes may define whether data returned from a service should be persistent in the enterprise system whether the integration logic has to read data from the enterprise system whether the integration logic has to write data into the enterprise system whether the integration logic needs to access additional business logic on the enterprise system whether an interactive service integrator task is required in the integration logic whether a human service integrator task is required in the integration logic whether a customizing parameter has to be set adjusted in the enterprise system and whether a new customizing parameter has to be added to the enterprise system. Table 5 of Appendix A describes attributes in the business logic extension requirements.

External service integration requirements describe requirements that are used to define how to integrate external services. The attributes define whether standard business to business B2B protocols should be used for the communication with the external service and which technical communication protocols should be used for the communication with the external service. Table 6 of Appendix A shows different attributes for the external service integration requirements.

Non functional integration requirements define non functional constraints that the extension logic defined by the service integrator should fulfill. Non functional integration requirements define whether the integration logic needs to authenticate in the communication with the external service whether the communication is performance critical and if caching mechanisms are required whether the communication with the external service should be logged whether the messages sent to the service or received from the service should be encrypted whether the messages sent to the service or received from the service should be digitally signed and whether some specific transaction handling is required. Table 7 of Appendix A shows different attributes for non functional integration requirements.

The first three phases of defining the integration goal defining the integration context and defining the integration requirements have now been described. The following will describe the retrieve similar integration cases phase. In one example a case retrieval algorithm uses a similarity assessment based on a local global principle. The local global principle computes local similarity measures for attributes and then computes a global similarity measure using the local similarity measures. This process will be described in more detail below.

The similarity assessment computes the similarity between a new integration problem e.g. query case and an integration case e.g. existing case from knowledge base . shows an example of a similarity assessment according to one embodiment. An integration problem is input into case based retrieval framework . The similarity assessment compares a number of integration cases with the integration problem. For discussion purposes the integration case is shown as an integration case for the comparison.

Integration problem includes a problem description but no integration solution. Integration case includes a problem description and also an integration solution. The integration problem for the query case includes a number of attributes iq1 . . . iqn that describe the problem. Also for the existing case a number of attributes ic1 icn describe the problem for integration case . A similarity measure W1 . . . Wn between similar attributes of the problem description is calculated.

Each attribute may be assigned an attribute type. In one embodiment each attribute of the integration problem is compared to the respective attribute of the integration case retrieved from the knowledge base. The similarity function depends on the attribute type. For each attribute type it might be possible to configure multiple similarity functions. Attributes of different types may also be compared in other embodiments. A single attribute may be compared or a group of attributes may be compared together. For each attribute a separate similarity function may be used. However the same similarity function may be used multiple times in comparing different attributes types. First a local similarity measure is performed on the respective attribute type. A global similarity measure may then be determined by combining the local similarity measures using an amalgamation function e.g. a weighted average of the local similarity measures .

The following will describe the global similarity measure and then different examples for local similarity measures for the attributes of the problem description. The global similarity measure measures global similarity for the integration problem and an integration case. In one embodiment the global similarity measure weights and aggregates the different local similarity measure results. Other global similarity measures may also be used. In one example the global similarity measure may be defined by weighting local similarity measures for the attributes as defined by 

The following will describe the various local similarity functions. The sample attributes that are described above will be used however other attributes may also be appreciated and other local similarity measures may be used.

The integration context similarity measure includes a service similarity measure and a core application component similarity measure. The service similarity measure simmay be further defined as the weighted average of the local similarity measures for the business semantics and syntactical technical characteristics of the services to be compared 

A core application component measure simmay be further defined as the weighted average of the local similarity measures for the business semantics and the syntactical technical characteristics of the core application components to be compared 

The core application component extensibility capability measure simin the core application component measure may be further defined as the weighted average of local similarity measures for the UI extension capabilities and process extension capabilities 

The UI extension requirements measure may be defined as the weighted average of the local similarity measures of the attributes within the UI extension requirements sub category as shown in Table 3 of Appendix A. The UI extension requirements measure may be defined as 

The process extension requirements measure may be defined as a weighted average of the local similarity measures of the attributes within the process extension requirements sub category shown in Table 4 of Appendix A. The process extension requirements measure may be defined by 

The business logic extension requirements measure may be defined as the weighted average of the local similarity measures of the attributes within the business logic extension requirements sub category shown in Table 5 of Appendix A. The business logic extension requirements measure may be defined as 

The technical integration requirements measure may be a weighted average of the local similarity measures of the attributes within the technical integration requirements sub category of Table 6 of Appendix A. This technical integration requirements measure may be defined as 

The non functional requirements measure may be defined as a weighted average of the local similarity measures of the attributes within the non functional requirements sub category shown in Table 7 of Appendix A. The non functional requirements measure may be defined as 

The global integration case similarity measure weights the local similarity measures for the three categories in the problem description to determine the global similarity measure. This measure may be used to determine if the integration case is similar to the integration problem. The above calculations may be performed for many different integration cases. The most similar integration cases may then be determined and provided to the service integrator.

A previous integration customization case stored within an experience base for possible reuse may further include one or more of the following pieces of information information allowing annotation of price information for trading the previous customization case e.g. to another tenant information restricting visibility of the previous customization case within the experience base information defining a rating for the previous customization case within a community information capturing a reuse frequency of the previous customization case and or information rendering anonymous at least a portion of the previous customization case.

Referring back to at the integration context definition is received. shows an interface used by service integrator to input the integration context definition according to one embodiment. Questions to define the attributes for the service the functional business semantics the business area the UI components and the process components are shown. The answers to the questions define values of the attributes.

Referring back to at the integration requirements definition is received. depict interfaces that allow a service integrator to input information for the integration requirements attributes according to one embodiment. Questions to define data access attributes for persisting data reading data writing data and accessing additional logic are shown in . In questions to define attributes for process extension requirements are shown in . Although not shown other questions to define attributes for business logic extensions technical integration requirements and non functional integration requirements may be provided.

Referring back to at in an optional step a configuration of similarity measures may be received. This configures which similarity measures may be used for different attributes. shows an interface that allows a service integrator to input similarity measures to be used with different attributes according to one embodiment. For example similarity measures for integration goals integration contexts and integration requirements may be input. A similarity measure may be selected at . Also a weight for that similarity measure may be input at . The weight indicates the weighting that is provided to that similarity measure.

Referring back to at integration cases that are similar to the integration problem are retrieved. For example a certain number of integration cases that are deemed to be the most similar e.g. have a similarity above a threshold may be retrieved. shows an example of retrieved results according to one embodiment. As shown four different integration cases have been retrieved and ranked based on their similarity. The results show the similarity rating business area service UI model and process model.

At a selection of an integration case is received from a service integrator. The problem solution of the integration case may then be adapted for the integration problem.

A service integrator may also want to know more details about the retrieved integration cases. In this case the service integrator may select an integration case and be provided with more details as shown in

Particular embodiments may promote the integration of complementary services into standard enterprise systems utilizing a case based reasoning approach. In particular the present disclosure proposes systems and methods for a case based adaptation framework allowing adaptation of an existing customizing solution from a previous case to a new unsolved integration adaptation or extension problem.

As mentioned above Case Based Reasoning seeks to remember previous similar situations cases and then reuse information and knowledge about the stored cases in addressing new problems. One hurdle faced in the Case Based Reasoning Cycle is the adaptation of an existing solution within a new problem context. This aspect is referenced hereafter as adaptation and is designated in by the reference number .

According to particular embodiments a customization case adaptation may be realized by a case adaptation engine. Specifically during case retrieval the system integrator may have selected a customization case for reuse. That customization case is now to be adapted to the new application context.

In the overall CBR cycle case adaptation may involve domain dependent adaptation knowledge in combination with appropriate adaption methods. Customization case adaptation may be used as the customization problem definition of the query customization case may not completely match with the customization problem of the retrieved customization case.

Particular embodiments may rely upon a transformation adaptation approach in which the problem solution of a retrieved case is transformed into a new problem solution of the query case typically by the application of adaptation rules. According to certain embodiments a transformational adaptation method may be embedded into an interactive semi automatic customization procedure that provides recommendations on possible adaptation steps to the system integrator.

According to particular embodiments content of a customization case can be formalized as a Meta Model having a problem description and a problem solution with specific focus on the formalization of the solution part by the introduction of an adaptable customization process or solution plan.

Accordingly the previously discussed shows a Meta Model corresponding to a customization case utilizing adaptation according to a particular embodiment. The Meta Model includes a problem description corresponding to customization problem and a problem solution corresponding to a customization solution .

As shown in a customization process is used as solution plan within the case problem solution part . A customization process covers customization tasks or steps processed to implement a customization solution i.e. cookbook . The customization tasks cover typical recurring adaptation patterns across multiple system layers. The customization process can be reused in a new application context. The customization process thus covers the steps that a system integrator performs to adapt or extend a standard enterprise system to implement a certain adaptation or extension requirement.

The following describes a customization process as a solution plan of an integration case. According to a basic adaptation procedure during the adaptation phase the solution plan of the retrieved case can first be adapted to the meet the new integration requirements. The adapted customization process solution plan can then be executed replayed in the new application target context. The basic adaptation procedure is described in detail below starting with .

Use of a customization process solution plan for the integration case problem part according to certain embodiments may offer one or more benefits. For example such an approach may match the way in which system integrators work. It can allow integrators to build on existing software or organizational process models that cover change procedures e.g. ITIL COBIT ISO Governance Frameworks .

Moreover this approach may support the documentation of an adaptation extension solution. It can allow integration of automated steps as well as manual steps allow inclusion of different roles in an integration process and or allow the integration of different tools and editors.

In addition this approach offers extendibility for the future as it is able to integrate new patterns. The approach may be platform independent allowing transfer to different platforms. Finally the approach can readily be recorded in Enterprise Systems.

The development process of customization solutions in general is a design intensive process characterized by an intensive human expert involvement. Customization solutions can differ in their complexity from simple to complex customization solutions. Furthermore customization solutions can highly differ in granularity from fine grained adaptation solutions to complete Add On solutions complementing core enterprise system functionality.

On the left hand side the query customization case QCC is shown. This case represents the new customization problem to be solved by the system integrator that has been defined during the first phase of the customization experience management cycle. It has not yet received a customization solution part.

On the right hand side of the retrieved customization case RCC is shown. The RCC includes both a retrieved customization problem and a retrieved customization solution . The RCC has been selected by the system integrator for reuse at the end of the customization case retrieval phase.

Both the QCC and RCC are inputs to the semi automatic customization case adaptation procedure . The adaptation procedure references a knowledge base to generate a target customization case TCC as output. The target customization case includes both the new customization problem and an adapted customization solution .

The customization case adaptation procedure was developed based upon three design decisions. First transformational adaptation served as a foundation.

In particular the inherent complexity of customization solutions itself results in complexity of reusing past customization solutions in a new application context. There may not exist sufficient complete general domain knowledge available in the context of customization of enterprise systems due to its very design intensive nature. Accordingly a transformational adaptation approach may combine substitutional as well as structural adaptation methods. Using such transformational adaptation it is possible to change the structure of the retrieved customization solution e.g. by modifying inserting deleting or replacing elements of the customization solution .

A second design decision utilized human expert controlled case adaptation. A principle of the approach is the dedicated involvement of the system integrator as the human expert within the case adaptation process by providing recommendations on how to adapt the retrieved customization case to the new problem context. This approach concentrated on a semi automatic adaptation approach allowing the system integrator control during this phase.

In order to provide recommendations for the system integrator on how to adapt the retrieved case the customization adaptation algorithm relies on adaptation rules. Each adaptation rule represents certain domain knowledge about how a retrieved customization case must be changed if its problem part differs in a specific characteristic from the query customization case. By applying adaptation rules within the customization case adaptation phase the CAPE Framework is enhanced from a pure Case Based Reasoning system into a hybrid intelligent system.

A third design decision involved including aspects from derivational adaptation approaches. Each customization solution includes a customization process comprising customization tasks e.g. core model adaptation tasks that have been conducted on the various system layers of a packaged enterprise system to solve the related customization problem. As such the customization process can be seen as the solution plan on how the customization problem has been solved.

A principle of the proposed customization case adaptation algorithm is to first adapt the customization process of the retrieved customization case which is afterwards semi automatically executed in the new problem context of the target customization case. In a core part of the customization case adaptation algorithm the solution plan customization process of the retrieved customization case is adapted based on the differences of the customization problem parts of the query customization case and the retrieved customization case.

This approach is related to a derivational adaptation method of replaying a past reasoning trace in our case the customization case in the new problem context in our case the target customization case . However in contrast to classical derivational adaptation methods a from scratch problem solver e.g. a planning component is not employed to generate the parts of the solution that do not fit.

Rather the customization process of the retrieved customization case source solution plan is semi automatically transformed to the customization process that fits to the goal context and requirements of the target customization case target solution plan . This transformation is based on the differences between the problem descriptions of both cases and is implemented with the help of adaptation rules. This approach comprises plan adaptation.

In view of the three design decisions the customization case adaptation procedure is primarily transformation based. However it combines this method with aspects from a derivational adaptation strategy through the applied concept of plan adaptation.

In a first phase Phase I the target customization case is created. During the customization case retrieval phase the system integrator has selected one customization case for reuse retrieved customization case . The target customization case is created as an initial copy of the retrieved customization case. Details of this phase of the customization case procedure are described in connection with .

In a second phase Phase II plan adaptation recommendations for the customization process are computed. Specifically the customization process solution plan of the target customization case is extracted. Based on differences between the customization problem definitions of the query and retrieved customization case a list of plan adaptation recommendations is generated. These recommendations suggest how the customization process of the target customization can be adapted. Details of this phase of the customization case procedure are described in connection with .

In a third phase Phase III plan adaptation recommendations for the customization process are selected and adjusted. In particular the system integrator can accept reject and or manually complete parameterization of suggested plan adaptation recommendations for the customization process. Selected changes are applied to the target customization process and to its sub processes if appropriate . Details of this third phase of the customization case procedure are described in connection with .

In a fourth phase Phase IV the customization process is executed in a target context. Specifically as a result of the previous steps the customization process of the target customization case has been adapted to the target customization case problem context and can now be executed in this context by semi automatically processing customization tasks. Details of this phase of the customization case procedure are described in connection with .

The customization case adaptation procedure is technically implemented by a case adaptation engine of the CAPE Framework that is discussed in detail below in connection with . The following accordingly utilize a notation to describe the procedure in a manner allowing differentiation between automated steps performed by the case adaptation engine modeled as service task types and interactive steps performed by the system integrator modeled as manual task types . In addition the symbols Q and R are also included to indicate whether a certain step of the procedure is supported by the CAPE rule engine or the SPARQL Query API that is part of the semantic management layer shown and discussed further below in connection with .

First in step the query customization case and the retrieved customization case are both loaded and read by the case adaptation engine. Both steps are supported by the CAPE SPARQL Query API. Afterwards in step new case identifier is generated and in step the target customization case is created as an initial copy of the retrieved customization case.

The case adaptation engine may create a deep copy for each software artifact that has been developed within the retrieved customization case. Adaptation operations in the further phases of the algorithm can then be applied to the software artifacts of the target customization case.

First in step the customization problem parts of the query customization case as well as from the retrieved customization case are loaded. In addition in step the customization solution part of the target customization case is read by the case adaptation engine. All three steps are supported by the CAPE SPARQL Query API.

The adaptation algorithm adapts the customization process solution plan of the target customization case. For this purpose differences in the customization problem descriptions of the query customization case and the retrieved customization case are analyzed.

The problem description of a customization case is divided into three parts customization goal customization context and customization requirements. The query customization case might differ in each of these parts from the retrieved customization case and each difference might involve an adaptation of target case customization process e.g. by modifying inserting or deleting a customization task of the customization process plan adaptation .

Therefore the customization case adaptation procedure shown in includes three parallel steps that compute 1 the customization goal related plan adaptation recommendations 2 the customization context related plan adaptation recommendations and 3 the customization requirements related plan adaptation recommendations. All three steps are supported by the CAPE SPARQL Query API and the CAPE rule engine.

Computation of the plan adaptation recommendations is now described in three separate sub processes. shows the details for the computation of 1 the customization goal related plan adaptation recommendations and 2 of the customization context related plan adaptation recommendations. For the computation of customization goal related plan adaptation recommendations left hand side of the case adaptation engine loops over each attribute of the customization goal description. For each goal attribute the values of the query customization case and the retrieved customization case are compared. If both attribute values are not equal a plan adaptation recommendation is generated to modify the relevant customization task in the target case customization process. If related attributes of the goal description have been processed generated plan adaptation recommendations are grouped. Comparison of attributes and their related plan adaptation recommendations are implemented using plan adaptation patterns and adaptation rules.

For the computation of customization context related plan adaptation recommendations right hand side of the case adaptation engine loops over each attribute of the customization context description based on the same principle as described for the customization goal attributes for each context attribute the values of the query customization case and the retrieved customization case are compared. If both attribute values are not equal a plan adaptation recommendation is generated in order to modify the relevant customization task in the target case customization process. Finally generated plan adaptation recommendations are grouped together. The comparison of attributes and their related plan adaptation recommendations are implemented using plan adaptation patterns and adaptation rules.

Analysis of the attribute values of the query customization case and the retrieved customization case can have four different outcomes. In one possible outcome both requirements have exactly the same value and therefore no adaptation action is required.

According to a second possible outcome there is a recommendation to insert a customization task. The query customization case has a customization requirement that was not required in the retrieved customization case. Therefore the case adaptation engine generates a plan adaptation recommendation to insert a new customization task into the customization process of the target customization case in order to handle this difference.

In a third possible outcome there is a recommendation to delete customization task. The retrieved customization case has a customization requirement that is not required in the query customization case that needs to be solved. Therefore the case adaptation engine generates a plan adaptation recommendation to delete the customization task that is related to the requirement from the customization process of the target customization case in order to handle this difference.

In a fourth possible outcome there is a recommendation to modify customization task. Both the query customization case and the retrieved customization case have a common customization requirement. However they differ in the specific characteristic of the requirement. Therefore the case adaptation engine generates a plan adaptation recommendation to modify the parameterization of the related customization task in the customization process of the target customization case in order to handle this difference.

Analysis of case attribute values as well as the derivation of appropriate plan adaptation recommendations is implemented using adaptation rules.

Returning to the computed plan adaptation recommendations are grouped together. The recommendations may optionally be sorted as shown in the last step of .

The first two phases just described of the customization case adaptation procedure are processed by the case adaptation engine without interaction with the system integrator. Note at the end of phase two in the procedure the case adaptation engine has only computed plan adaptation recommendations. However the target customization case has not yet been physically changed.

In phase three the system integrator may now become actively involved in selecting and adjusting the plan adaptation recommendations. This is shown in detail in .

First the system integrator can view the list of plan adaptation recommendations. As described in the previous sections one design principle is to provide assistance to the system integrator but leaving him or her in full control over the adaptation process. Therefore the system integrator can select the relevant plan recommendations out of the set that has been suggested by the case adaptation engine in the Phase II.

The system integrator can also manually add further customization tasks to the target customization process that have not been suggested by the case adaptation engine. This allows the system integrator to explicitly control the adaptation process and use his expert design knowledge during reuse of the retrieved customization knowledge in the new problem context.

A plan adaptation recommendation may be parameterized or manually adjusted by the system integrator in order to obtain decisions from the human expert. As shown in the loop in the lower part in the algorithm iterates on proposed plan adaptation recommendations that need to be manually completed.

Each plan adaptation recommendation is related to a plan adaptation pattern that actually defines the change operation related to a customization task e.g. insert delete or modify . The parameterization of a plan adaptation recommendation is therefore related to its encapsulated plan adaptation pattern.

Finally if plan adaptation recommendations have been parameterized the related change operations are applied to the customization process of the target customization case. As a result of this Phase III the customization process of the target customization case has been adapted to the new problem situation of the target case context. Thus the solution plan of the retrieved customization case has been physically adapted.

As described previously the customization process of the target customization case has been semi automatically adapted in order to reflect the customization goal customization context and customization requirements from the target customization case. The customization process is now ready to be executed in the target case context in order to actually perform the adaptation of the core enterprise system.

In the next step human resources e.g. specific experts can be assigned to the different customization tasks. In this respect the customization process can also be used as a foundation for project management aspects within the customization project. The customization tasks can then be performed by the assigned experts in the appropriate adaptation editors of the underlying enterprise system.

At this point in the customization case adaptation procedure the CAPE Framework interfaces with the various platform specific development tools that together comprise the development infrastructure of the underlying packaged enterprise system. In the case of a core model adaptation task specific customization task the procedure therefore extracts the core model adaptation pattern that is related to the customization task. The relevant adaptation editor of the core enterprise system is then opened and the respective customization task can be performed by the assigned expert.

If customization tasks have been successfully implemented the customization solution can be tested and finally released for the customization revision then occurring within the customization experience management cycle.

Within the CAPE Framework the customization case adaptation procedure is implemented by the case adaptation engine. is a simplified view of the overall architecture of an embodiment of the CAPE Framework including the case adaptation engine present therein.

The case adaptation process is triggered by the system integrator by selecting a retrieved customization case for reuse after the case retrieval. This step is implemented by the CAPE Experience Management Frontend component that is integrated with the CAPE Backend Layer through the CAPE Frontend Integration Layer .

Through the CAPE Frontend Integration Layer the CAPE Experience Management Frontend is integrated with adaptation editors for the core enterprise system.

The CAPE Experience Management Frontend includes specific sub components providing various user interfaces for the case adaptation related tasks. For example further discussed below shows a user interface that allows selection of the profile of the entity that will interact with the system.

The Case Based Reasoning Engine is a component in the CAPE Backend that coordinates CAPE activities and triggers the case adaptation engine that performs activities within the case adaptation phase.

First the case adaptation engine provides the functionality to create the initial version of the target customization case as a copy of the retrieved customization case . For this purpose the case adaptation engine has write access to the customization case base .

In order to provide the plan adaptation recommendations the case adaptation engine reads the query retrieved and target customization case from the knowledge base and puts them as input facts on the rule engine .

The rule engine then starts to evaluate the differences between both cases and generates plan adaptation recommendations as defined by the adaptation rules. The rule engine may evaluate the adaptation rules using a forward chaining reasoning method and an underlying Rete algorithm. As an output the rule adaptation engine generates plan adaptation recommendation objects as output facts. The case adaptation engine reads the computed recommendations from the working memory of the rule engine. They are afterwards displayed in the Customization Experience Management Frontend .

After the system has parameterized the plan adaptation patterns the case adaptation engine provides a change API to physically change the customization process of the target customization case. The case adaptation engine itself triggers the change and the change is physically implemented by the semantic management layer . The case adaptation engine also provides an overview cockpit on the processing status of the customization process in the target context.

To access the core application models e.g. core process models or to query the customization process the case adaptation engine uses the query services provided by the semantic management layer .

The adaptation rule base can be configured and maintained through the maintenance configuration tool .

The above has focused on a case retrieval procedures and case adaptation procedures. Certain embodiments may enhance development efficiency of cloud based customization solutions through systematic reuse of valuable knowledge of the completed customization projects of other tenants or partners within the cloud enterprise platform.

Accordingly embodiments may embed customization experience management into an on demand enterprise system environment allowing retrieval adaptation sharing and trading of customization knowledge between tenants and partners. Such a platform may explore Case Based Reasoning CBR principles in the novel application domain of customization experience management in the context of SaaS PaaS based enterprise software.

The customization problem level comprises a plurality of customization problems P previously described by a tenant partner C . The customization solution level comprises an experience base in which corresponding solutions S for the problems are stored. This experience base represents collective cloud customization knowledge of an on demand enterprise system in SaaS or PaaS form.

When confronted with a new customization problem the tenant or partner can first search in the experience base for previous customization problems similar to the new customization problem. For example as previously described in connection with the tenant partner may wish to integrate an external payment service provider into a core sales order process for credit card validation prior to release of the sales order. Here this new so far unsolved customization problem is designated as C3 P1.

Rather than developing a customization solution from scratch according to particular embodiments the tenant partner may search within the experience base for similar customization problems already solved in the past. In particular the tenant defines new customization requirements and in response customization case s that are in some degree similar to the new customization problem are retrieved .

In the customization problem C2 P4 previously encountered by the Tenant Partner 2 is deemed to be the most similar to the newly posed customization problem C3 P1. Specifically in that prior customization problem C2 P4 a payment service provider was integrated into a service order process.

Accordingly the Tenant Partner 3 selects C2 P4 as the customization case to be reused. The customization solution C2 S4 is then extracted from the customization case and next adapted 1316 in order to create the final solution C3 S1.

In certain embodiments the functionality of an existing on demand enterprise system may be enhanced to allow sharing of customization knowledge. shows the architecture of on demand enterprise system with CAPE functionality that incorporates systematic customization experience management.

In particular on demand enterprise system includes a Software as a Service SaaS component providing business applications for subscribed tenants together defined as users . These business applications include predefined business processes delivered by the enterprise system vendor.

In addition a Platform as a Service PaaS component is provided by the on demand enterprise system allowing tenants system integrators or partners to adapt the core business applications provided by the SaaS vendor. Such adaptation or customization might include the configuration or extension of the core business applications.

Integration with other systems is another form of customization. For this purpose the PaaS component includes a development environment that includes multiple tools and editors used in the customization of core business applications.

The SaaS and PaaS components share a common core model repository for storage of core application models e.g. core process models as well of extension models e.g. process extensions .

The Case Based Adaptation Platform Add On component provides an experience base that includes customization cases previously developed by the various tenants system integrators or partners in the shared on demand enterprise system. The Case Based Adaptation Platform Add On is integrated with the core platform repository as well as with the development environment of the on demand enterprise system through respective interfaces and .

The Case Based Reasoning Engine provides functionality to retrieve adapt revise and retain customization cases. This functionality is accessible via the Customization Experience Management Frontend .

According to certain embodiments a cloud customization case may cover a customization problem with its customization solution in the specific context of a shared on demand platform. A meta model for the case description may comprise one or more of the following pieces of information 

 A information allowing restriction in visibility of a customization case within the shared experience base e.g. intra tenant visibility inter tenant visibility intra partner visibility inter partner visibility etc. 

An embodiment has been implemented as a prototype to instantiate and evaluate the proposed customization case meta model. Two screenshots of the Customization Experience Management Frontend for this embodiment are shown in .

Specifically is a screen shot showing the general configuration of the usage scenario in the CAPE platform. In this embodiment the mode is set to SaaS PaaS profile indicating it as being an add on to an existing on demand enterprise system.

Cloud and or case based customization according to various embodiments can be summarized with regard to the simplified process flow shown in .

2 In step search for existing customization solutions within the shared experience base that are at least partially similar to the new so far unsolved customization problem.

Various embodiments may include one or more of the following aspects. One is the ability to explicitly and systematically share customization knowledge in a cloud platform between tenants partners and the platform vendor itself. This may be done using the concept of Case Based Reasoning in the specific application context of cloud based enterprise software customization.

A scheme allowing systematic management and reuse of adaptation knowledge from already successful implemented projects may provide one or more of the following benefits.

Certain embodiments may allow leveraging of collective cloud knowledge resources PaaS SaaS . Customization experience may be exploited shared or even traded within a collaborative cloud environment. Accordingly embodiments may serve as extensions of PaaS SaaS with collective intelligence.

Particular embodiments may shorten problem solving time. Reuse of customization knowledge may lead to the reduction of the problem solving time as problems do not need to be solved over and over again. This leads to reduced costs as well as to a reduced time to market competitive advantage .

Sharing customization knowledge according various embodiments may improve solution quality. Reuse of customization knowledge allows building on top of already proofed solutions and minimizes the risk of wrong or harmful solutions.

Some embodiments may lower the skill level required. In particular training efforts for new consultants may be reduced as well as the required skills of SaaS PaaS subscribers.

Embodiments may promote retention and accessibility to valuable corporate knowledge. In particular each successfully implemented customization scenario is stored in the experience base and hence is available for the reuse of future customization scenarios.

Sharing customization knowledge according various embodiments may increase the attractiveness of the platform from the vendor perspective. That is vendors may be afforded the opportunity to provide innovative extensions contributions to the enterprise system.

Embodiments may also offer a foundation for enhanced platform analytics PaaS SaaS . That is sharing customization knowledge allows for further platform analytics e.g. pattern mining within the shared experience base .

Embodiments may allow customization experience management within SaaS PaaS ecosystems. Customers of cloud based enterprise software may choose the SaaS delivery model for rapid implementation without extensive on site consulting effort. However they still have the motivation to adapt the enterprise software to their specific needs with as little effort as possible.

In contrast to traditional on premise enterprise software installations multiple customers or tenants and partners may share a common infrastructure. This common infrastructure provides a source of collective customization knowledge. Systematic management and reuse of project experience within such a cloud platform according to embodiments could allow customers and partners to share or even trade customization knowledge increasing the attractiveness of the entire ecosystem.

Computer system may be coupled via bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT or liquid crystal display LCD for displaying information to a computer service integrator. An input device such as a keyboard and or mouse is coupled to bus for communicating information and command selections from the service integrator to processor . The combination of these components allows the service integrator to communicate with the system. In some systems bus may be divided into multiple specialized buses.

Computer system also includes a network interface coupled with bus . Network interface may provide two way data communication between computer system and the local network . The network interface may be a digital subscriber line DSL or a modem to provide data communication connection over a telephone line for example. Another example of the network interface is a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links are another example. In any such implementation network interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information.

Computer system can send and receive information through the network interface across a local network an Intranet or the Internet . In the Internet example software components or services may reside on multiple different computer systems or servers across the network. The processes described above may be implemented on one or more servers for example. A server may transmit actions or messages from one component through Internet local network and network interface to a component on computer system . The software components and processes described above may be implemented on any computer system and send and or receive information across a network for example.

The case based adaptation method may be used in extending standard enterprise systems including on demand enterprise systems. Standard enterprise systems may be described with a single overall abstracted model that spans across four abstraction layers such as the presentation layer business process layer service layer and business configuration layer. An enterprise system includes multiple business applications or reference processes that leverage a common service and business configuration layer. shows a more detailed example of an enterprise system according to one embodiment. Enterprise system may be described with a single overall abstracted model that spans across a number e.g. four of abstraction layers such as a presentation layer a business process layer a service layer and a business configuration layer . Enterprise system includes multiple service based business applications that leverage a common service layer and business configuration layer .

Presentation layer comprises all artifacts and components for a service integrator interface UI part of the business application. In one embodiment UI components UI views for a dedicated UI platform with all interrelations are located within presentation layer . The service integrator interface will be described in more detailed below.

Business process layer contains models of business processes that are realized within the business application. Modeling elements for business processes may contain references to elements on other layers. For example a human activity in a business process can refer to a UI component with the implementation of the human service integrator interface. An automated activity can refer to a service declared in the service layer with the implementation of the needed business functionality.

Service layer contains services offered by enterprise system . Core services provide access to business objects. Composite services represent compositions of core services into larger bundles to provide advanced higher value business functionality or application logic.

Business configuration layer contains the configuration data for business applications with available parameters and configuration options also known as customizing for business applications.

In order to adapt standard business applications to customer specific needs enterprise systems provide a large set of proprietary extensibility adaptability features .

Currently consulting companies expend significant effort in the training and education of new consultants to become domain experts. Consulting companies also expend significant effort to allow consultants to exchange knowledge and share their best practices and experiences gained in on premise or on demand integration projects. Moreover while integration experience may be found in consulting teams such knowledge is not typically systematically leveraged.

Embodiments as described herein may thus allow response to marketplace pressures to deliver integration solutions in a shorter time with fewer costs to customers. Embodiments could also facilitate off shore development approaches in the area of system integration in large scale customer landscapes.

According to a second application Area of integration extension knowledge may be systematically reused within partner ecosystems of on demand enterprise systems. Specifically on demand standard enterprise software is finding increasing use. In contrast to on premise solutions such on demand subscribers typically require less on site consulting.

Subscribers of on demand standard enterprise software request easier and faster integration of complementary services. This has led to the emergence of eco systems in which service marketplaces and application stores provide complementary solutions e.g. add ons to standard enterprise systems developed by ISVs partners. Moreover providers of on demand standard enterprise software have begun to offer partner development environments PaaS facilitating the more rapid development of extensions complementary solutions and third party service integrations.

Thus according to various embodiments multiple tenants and partners domain experts may share a common infrastructure providing a valuable resource to systematically share integration extension knowledge. In certain cases such knowledge exchange might be possible between different tenants.

According to a third potential application area of embodiments may allow systematic reuse of integration extension knowledge within large scale heterogeneous system landscapes. Specifically large organizations may be able to employ embodiments to reuse existing solutions or to adapt existing solutions for reuse within the specialized knowledge spheres present within the context of a larger system environment.

Particular embodiments may be implemented in a non transitory computer readable storage medium for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus system or machine. The computer readable storage medium contains instructions for controlling a computer system to perform a method described by particular embodiments. The instructions when executed by one or more computer processors may be operable to perform that which is described in particular embodiments.

As used in the description herein and throughout the claims that follow a an and the includes plural references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Also as used in the description herein and throughout the claims that follow the meaning of in includes in and on unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.

The above description illustrates various embodiments of the present invention along with examples of how aspects of the present invention may be implemented. The above examples and embodiments should not be deemed to be the only embodiments and are presented to illustrate the flexibility and advantages of the present invention as defined by the following claims. Based on the above disclosure and the following claims other arrangements embodiments implementations and equivalents may be employed without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the claims.

