---

title: Measurement and modeling of salinity contamination of soil and soil-water systems from oil and gas production activities
abstract: An analytical framework and modeling process for assessing salinity contamination of soil ecosystems in geographical areas related to oil and gas production sites combines detection and monitoring of unplanned saltwater releases from such production activities with soil impact prediction. The analytical framework and modeling process enables an assessment of risks associated with saltwater disposal from drilling operations to the surrounding environment and the impact on soils, aquifers, rangeland, cropland, and adjoining areas by monitoring water movement and other soil conditions, and generating predictive output data for landowners, farmers, oil and gas production site operators, governmental regulators, and other end users for contamination mitigation and agricultural activities.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09579700&OS=09579700&RS=09579700
owner: ITERIS, INC.
number: 09579700
owner_city: Santa Ana
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150529
---
This patent application claims priority to U.S. provisional application 62 005 032 filed on May 30 2014 the contents of which are incorporated in their entirety herein. In accordance with 37 C.F.R. 1.76 a claim of priority is included in an Application Data Sheet filed concurrently herewith.

The present invention relates to saltwater and or sodium chloride contamination of soils and the surrounding environment. Specifically the present invention relates to systems and methods of measuring and modeling salinity contamination of soils related to extracting carbons such as oil and gas from the earth.

Salinity contamination of soils and aquifers from exposure to high amounts of saltwater can cause adverse and long lasting impacts as salt accumulates or disassociates leaving sodium ion particles that raise the sodicity of soil and potentially reduce soil texture. The accumulation of saltwater in soils can cause damage by destroying soil structure and permeability. Seed germination may be reduced in the presence of high concentrations of soluble salts which limit a plant s ability to uptake water. With sufficient concentrations salt contaminated soil can lose its ability to support agricultural crops and other vegetation. Over time this may further contribute to erosion.

Recent trends in the field of oil and gas drilling include the use of hydraulic fracturing which is commonly referred to as fracking. Hydraulic fracturing is a process employed to stimulate a natural gas oil or geothermal energy well to maximize the extraction of resources from the well. Generally hydraulic fracturing involves injection of massive amounts of fluids such as saltwater into a well at high pressure to create fractures in rock formations such as shale that contain subterranean hydrocarbon reservoirs. Products extracted from a typical oil well involving hydraulic fracturing are crude oil and natural gas along with the injected saltwater which becomes an unwanted byproduct of the process. Over the production lifetime the percentage of saltwater from a well producing oil or gas increases and a newly drilled well can initially produce one barrel of saltwater for every two barrels of hydrocarbons extracted. Over time that ratio can grow to 10 barrels of saltwater for every barrel of hydrocarbons. The water extracted from such wells can easily contain over 250 000 parts per million of various types of salts nearly equal to the waters of the Dead Sea and almost 10 times the salinity of ocean water.

Oil and gas well operators are required to properly dispose of the saltwater by product in an environmentally responsible manner. Saltwater is typically disposed of in one of three ways. One way involves using the saltwater by product to enhance oil production by injecting the saltwater back into an oil producing formation. Another approach involves evaporation of water content to produce solid salt that can be collected. In a third approach saltwater may also be injected into an underground formation that contains a natural saline aquifer. This third approach is termed saltwater disposal SWD and is the predominant method of disposal. Before either of the second evaporation or third SWD methods take place saltwater is stored at the production site in a handling facility that may be a tank pit or pool and transfer of saltwater to a disposal site is undertaken either by tanker truck or pipeline.

There are significant challenges with managing SWD as indicated by the current assessment of oil and gas production development in the North Dakota Bakken Formation. Well operators currently inject around 468 000 barrels of saltwater a day into saltwater disposal sites related to the Bakken drilling activity. Future development of this production could require approximately 1 600 additional SWD wells which currently can be built for 2 million to 3 million per well. For the next 50 to 60 years these wells could potentially utilize roughly 10 000 barrels of saltwater per day of operation creating a significant increase in saltwater to be disposed of. With the need to store saltwater quantities of this magnitude at handling facilities and transfer those quantities to SWD wells the risk for potential leakage or spillage into surrounding soils and aquifers is a major concern.

While spillage of saltwater at an active production site can lead to significant soil contamination these events are often easier to monitor and therefore can be quickly addressed. The greater risk of soil contamination especially to rangeland and cropland occurs both between the production location and a SWD site and at the SWD site itself. This is especially true for saltwater transfer by pipeline and storage in holding tanks either above or below ground as breaks or leaks can go undetected for an extended period. This can lead to significant long term effects on soils aquifers rangeland and cropland.

The unplanned release of saltwater brine resulting from truck and or pipeline transport of brine leakage from containment ponds associated with active oil and gas drilling and at SWD sites presents a host of contamination problems with wide ranging effects on soils vegetation crops livestock and people. For example unintended releases of saltwater brine have the capacity to infiltrate soils and sufficiently alter its pH so as to deteriorate crop productivity. Further if the infiltration is sufficient and sustained for a period of time in extreme cases it can lead to a horizontal movement in soils resulting in an expansion in the contamination area and causing a wide ranging impact cropland. Under such situations this can also lead to the contamination of groundwater supplies and present a threat to drinking water for both humans and animals. Episodes of excessive or prolonged precipitation can further exacerbate this problem if undetected.

It is therefore one object of the present invention to provide a system and method of modeling salinity and saltwater contamination of soils in areas where by product of oil and gas drilling is disposed of. It is another object of the present invention to provide a system and method of assessing risks associated with saltwater disposal from oil and gas drilling sites to the surrounding environment and the agricultural and environment impact on rangeland cropland and aquifers. It is still another objective of the present invention to monitor and assess soil conditions in such areas and generate forecasts predictions and recommendations as downstream or follow on services for landowners farmers oil and gas production site operators governmental regulators and other end users for contamination mitigation activities as well as the associated impacts that affect crops and agricultural activities.

The present invention is a framework for modeling salinity contamination in soils that combines detection measurement and monitoring of unplanned saltwater releases from oil and gas production activities with soil and agricultural and environmental impact prediction. The present invention utilizes remote sensing platforms to detect and monitor the presence of saltwater in soils and upon detection assesses impact on vegetation and current and future soil contamination. The framework includes a soil salinity transport model that combines data such as information on native soils soil samples ground water and watershed information agricultural and crop information and weather information to analyze the extent of future soil salinity and sodicity and the possibility of vertical and lateral movement of saltwater within soils.

Other objects embodiments features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following description of the embodiments taken together with the accompanying drawings which illustrate by way of example the principles of the invention.

In the following description of the present invention reference is made to the exemplary embodiments illustrating the principles of the present invention and how it is practiced. Other embodiments will be utilized to practice the present invention and structural and functional changes will be made thereto without departing from the scope of the present invention.

The one or more data processing modules of the analytical framework and modeling process for soil contamination detection assessment and impact analysis include a data ingest module configured to ingest request receive or otherwise obtain input data such as pipeline and drilling data field level remotely sensed imagery data remotely sensed vegetation data and crop modeling outputs and ground truth measurements . A vegetation salinity stress module uses at least this information to perform an initial assessment of vegetation salinity stress and this information is then combined with soils data groundwater and watershed data and meteorological data that includes historical current and predicted weather data and provided to the soil salinity transport model . The soil salinity transport model is comprised of one or more additional data processing modules that are specifically configured to analyze soil water dynamics and model the movement of salts within the soil strata and generate output data at least in the form of a soil contamination profile and an agricultural and environmental impact analysis and salinity contamination assessment .

The plurality of database collections may include a database that stores or otherwise maintains information related to oil and gas drilling activities and locations and saltwater usage and pipelines attendant thereto. Prerequisite to monitoring and detecting unplanned saltwater release activities is the awareness of locations of new and existing oil and gas production. Pipeline and drilling data that informs of such locations is collected by various commercial entities and is available as a data service. Input data of this type is acquired from these entities and may be maintained in a separate pipeline and drilling database. Pipeline and drilling data provides an inventory of information associated with oil and gas drilling such as a production level an amount of saltwater generated methods for saltwater disposal for each location of production location of saltwater disposal and an incident history of saltwater contamination of soils.

Another type of input data is field level processed remotely sensed imagery data . One source of this remotely sensed imagery data is satellite systems such as fine temporal resolution low earth orbit satellites that provide a minimum of three spectral bands and other resource monitoring satellites as well as from unmanned airborne systems UAS such as unmanned aerial vehicles and remotely piloted vehicles commonly referred to as drones. Other sources are also contemplated such as for example unmanned aerial systems manned aerial reconnaissance lower temporal frequency earth resources satellite such as LANDSAT and MODIS ground based robots and sensors mounted on field and farm equipment. Regardless of the source this imagery data is field navigated to provide users with the most recent high resolution depiction of the crop field. Imagery data may be delivered on a web or application based tool configured within the present invention and additional tools may be provided for spatially navigating the imagery data and overlaying a variety of weather data elements.

Another type of input data vegetation and crop data may be provided directly by growers or landowners in or near geographical areas or fields affected by salinity contamination or impacted by oil and gas drilling activities. This data may be separately maintained in a vegetation and crop database or may be collected by various commercial entities and provided as a data service via access to one or more database collections.

Vegetation and crop data may also derived at least in part from such imagery data . It is to be noted that high salinity discharge water is characterized as having a high electrolyte and sodium content. Near infrared imagery data is collected to determine potential contamination by monitoring changes in vegetation in impacted and control areas over time using oil and gas production location data and associated SWD location data and monitoring of vegetation via remote sensing. Deriving vegetation data is performed by the use of vegetation indices band ratioing and temporal change detection procedures.

Many types of information may be included within the vegetation and crop data . As noted above vegetation information may be derived from imagery data vegetation indices band ratioing and temporal change detection procedures and therefore this information is one aspect of the invention remotely acquired or sensed. Additionally the vegetation and crop data may also include output data of crop modeling paradigms such as an augmented crop growth model that provide forecasts or other indications of expected growing degree days for various stages of crop growth. An example of such an augmented crop growth model may be found in U.S. Patent Publication No. 2014 0358486 A1. Other outputs of crop growth models that indicate phenological activity of crops may also be included within the information provided by vegetation and crop data and it is to be understood that such data and the analytical framework and modeling process for soil contamination detection assessment and impact analysis provided by the present invention are agnostic as to the model used or the type of crop modeled.

Remotely sensed imagery data collected on vegetation and crops from both impacted and non impacted sites is therefore analyzed in the present invention according to one embodiment thereof to determine differences in plant health. As plants mature and produce greater levels of chlorophyll biomass they reflect higher levels of near infrared NIR energy. As biomass increases with crop growth NIR reflectance also increases. In stressed plants there will be a marked decrease in NIR reflectance relative to non stressed plants. Also plants absorb visible blue and red energy to help with photosynthesis. With lower chlorophyll biomass there is less photosynthesis and the less absorption of these wavelengths. In this manner imagery data can be used to monitor differences in plant health. Accordingly it is one aspect of the analytical framework and modeling process for soil contamination detection assessment and impact analysis of the present invention to analyze remotely sensed vegetation and crop data from such imagery data within the soil salinity transport model .

To monitor all regions impacted by oil and gas production locations and SWD periodic processing of satellite imagery is conducted for areas designated from the pipeline and drilling database. Because of the potential for new unplanned and frequent saltwater release incidents a relatively high return rate of imagery analysis is employed. For selected locations of high value additional imagery is utilized from UAS platforms. The latter provides improved spatial resolution for the spectral band with the use of narrowband multi spectral imaging as well as a greater degree of control of the timing of data acquisition activities. The spatial resolutions from UAS improve to between 5 and 50 meters permitting better spatial delineation of contamination areas.

Field level remotely sensed imagery data is used to map the crop field and may be applied to additional analytical paradigms to generate profiles of crop development and vitality for development of vegetation and crop data . Imagery data may be analyzed using a normalized difference vegetative index NDVI that provides the user with an evaluation of plant health biomass and nutrient content. Other approaches may also be employed for such analysis such as Modified Chlorophyll Absorption Ratio Index Optimized Soil Adjusted Vegetation Index OSAVI Triangular Chlorophyll Index OSAVI Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectrometer Terrestrial Chlorophyll Index Improved Soil Adjusted Vegetation Index MSAVI and Red Edge Model MSAVI. Regardless analysis of imagery data provides a meaningful further element to vegetation and crop data because plants absorb short wave radiation from the sun between wavelengths of 400 nm and 750 nm which is their photo synthetically active spectral region. Thus healthy plants appear darker at these wavelengths. The addition of leaves on healthy plants results in strong reflection in the near infrared spectrum. These features provide the basis for categorizing plant species as well as monitoring vitality of plants using the NDVI analysis.

Validation of remotely sensed salt impacted vegetation is indicative of in situ measurement of soil samples using data from ground truth measurements . The validation process uses multiple criteria for characterizing salt contamination in soils. A laboratory evaluation of an in situ measurement of a soil sample identifies many characteristics such as salinity or total soluble salts TSS levels of exchangeable sodium percentage ESP and soil pH levels. TSS is represented as the electrical conductivity EC in a soil sample. The ESP is determined by examining the amount of the cation exchange capacity by sodium. Soils can then be classified as saline saline sodic sodic or normal on the basis of ESP soil pH and TSS values using such ground truth data . Additional data collection from soil engaging EC measurement devices may also be indicated to further refine the analysis and resulting classifications.

The soil classification e.g. saline or sodic in ground truth data is then used to determine the most appropriate assessment method for salt contaminated soil. Because the bulk of plant nutrients and water come from the upper portion for example the upper 3 to 4 feet of the soil column testing for TSS ESP and soil pH may be limited to the upper 4 feet of soil. Soil tests for these parameters may be necessary for areas where vegetation shows signs of stress. Site approval for soil testing is obtained through contact and agreement with landowners and crop growers with support from appropriate state and local regulatory agencies.

The combination of remotely sensed vegetation data and in situ measurement of ground truth data in vegetation salinity monitoring provides additional data for categorizing the extent of vegetative stress in the analytical framework and modeling process for soil contamination detection assessment and impact analysis of the present invention. The remotely sensed vegetation data is reduced to a vegetative index as noted above providing a digital index for classification by an artificial neural network ANN that performs an analysis of the normalized difference vegetation index. The present invention is as noted above performed in a computing environment that includes software and hardware components such as for example one or more specifically configured processors configured to train the ANN to recognize the spectral characteristics of the diverse plant communities represented in the imagery data . Supporting the ANN is an unsupervised training approach that is run on the multi layer image data to produce a cluster analysis of spectral clusters that are used to provide corresponding signatures of impacted vegetation. The resulting signatures are presented as thematic layers providing a graduated extent of stress. Results of the cluster analysis are used to guide follow up investigation with ground truth measurements . Confirmation of a saltwater impact with in situ measurements elevates the assessment to a notification level of a potential saltwater hazard and client notification may then be made with a recommendation for follow up monitoring for potential long term soil contamination.

The analytical framework and modeling process provides a tiered approach to modeling salinity contamination in the systems and methods of the present invention. An initial set of input data pipeline and drilling data field level imagery data vegetation and crop data and ground truth measurements is applied as noted above to the vegetation salinity stress module in this tiered approach to perform the stress assessment as described above. Output from this module and step is then applied for further processing to the soil salinity transport model together with the intake of additional input data in step .

Such additional input data includes soils data . A characterization of background soils is helpful to establish a baseline of salinity and sodicity for a specific location to enable a comparison with suspected vegetative salinity stress for that location. The background soil salinity expressed in electrical conductivity EC and the sodicity expressed in levels of sodium absorption ratio SAR are characterized by soils types described in the USDA NRCS Soil Survey Geographic SSURGO dataset maintained in a soils database. The SSURGO dataset contains background soil information as collected by the National Cooperative Soil Survey over the course of a century. This soils data is imported from a relational database where the attributes of selected land parcels can be queried in the analytical framework and modeling process based upon geospatial references for identified potential saltwater hazard location. Reference classifications of soils as saline saline sodic sodic or normal provided baseline EC and SAR values that are derived for the desired location from a lookup table relating soil types to typical EC and SAR values. Using this information soil data such as the soil type porosity soil horizons and background salinity and sodicity are then provided to the soil salinity transport model of the present invention.

The present invention may also ingest groundwater and watershed data from a plurality of sources for example from database collections that maintain and store data regarding wellhead and aquifer information. Precipitation that seeps downward through soil filling interstitial spaces in a sand and gravel mixture is called groundwater. If there is enough groundwater collected in a substrate of gravel and sand for agriculture and municipal supply use it is termed an aquifer . Groundwater flows through the sand and gravel laterally and eventually discharges into rivers and lakes. The rate of water movement in both a lateral and vertical direction has an important influence on the movement of salts in soil strata. Wellhead protection efforts provide a means of monitoring the quality of the aquifer and provide information on the depth to the saturated soil level. The depth to the saturated level fluctuates with seasonal and annual precipitation levels and becomes an important component in determining the extra area migration of salts from a primary contamination location.

The analytical framework and modeling process of the present invention may further apply historical current and predicted weather information in meteorological data obtained from one or more meteorological and or weather related database collections. Such meteorological data is utilized in the soil salinity transport model because the precipitation and evaporation for a given location influences the hydrologic cycle at the location. This hydrologic cycle dictates water evaporation and formation of clouds producing rains or snows onto the land. As rain falls or snow melts water either evaporates is taken up by plants runs off to streams lakes or the ocean or infiltrates into the soil. A fraction of the infiltration reaches the underground and maintains or raises the water table and helps in recharge of the aquifer. This recharge also carries salt contaminants into the groundwater from the land surface and can result in the leaching of salts from beneath the plant root zone upwards through the root zone and eventually to the surface.

The evaporation and precipitation process is a critical part of the movement of salts in soils. Assimilation of daily meteorological data in a database from which precipitation and evaporation can be determined supports the soil salinity transport model . This information also provides a near real time assessment of soil moisture conditions and supports both the generation of future precipitation evaporation prediction and initialization of soil salinity transport estimation.

Many different types of meteorological data may be used within the analytical framework and modeling process of the present invention such as for example information related to meteorological characteristics including atmospheric temperature humidity wind speed various forms of precipitation downwelling radiation and other such information. Such data may be derived from for example radar data collected from radar sensing systems and satellite data from satellite based weather observation and tracking systems. The present invention may ingest data from numerical weather prediction models and surface networks such as described further herein. Weather data may also be derived from data generated from crowd sourced observations using mobile applications configured on devices such as telephones and tablets and using social media feeds. Such crowd sourced observations may for example be generated from devices installed on or used within farm or other such equipment. Weather information may also be generated from meteorologist input.

The different sources of meteorological data may also include information from both in situ and remotely sensed observation platforms. For example the numerical weather models NWP and or surface networks may be combined with data from weather radar systems and satellites to reconstruct the current weather conditions on any particular area to be analyzed. There are numerous industry NWP models available and any such models may be used to input weather variables in the present invention. NWP models used herein at least include RUC Rapid Update Cycle WRF Weather Research and Forecasting Model GFS Global Forecast System and GEM Global Environmental Model . This weather data is received in real time and may come from several different NWP sources such as from Meteorological Services of Canada s MSC Canadian Meteorological Centre CMC as well as the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration s NOAA Environmental Modeling Center EMC and many others. Additionally internally or privately generated mesoscale NWP models developed from data collected from real time feeds to global observation resources may also be utilized. Such mesoscale numerical weather prediction models may be specialized in forecasting weather with more local detail than the models operated at government centers and therefore contain smaller scale data collections than other NWP models used. These mesoscale models are very useful in characterizing how weather conditions may vary over small distances and over small increments of time. The present invention may be configured to ingest data from all types of NWP models regardless of whether publicly privately or internally provided or developed.

Other types of input data ingested into the present invention may include image based data vehicular data and crowd sourced observational data . Image based data may be derived from systems such as video cameras and vehicular data may be generated from one or more vehicle based sensing systems including those systems coupled to computing systems configured on farm equipment or those systems configured to gather weather data from mobile devices present within vehicles such as with mobile telephony devices and tablet computers. Data may also be provided by crowd sourced observations for example from oil and gas well workers growers farmers and others using mobile telephony devices or tablet computers or any other computing devices that incorporate software tools such as mobile applications for accessing and using social media feeds.

In the present invention the soil salinity transport model is performed within one or more data processing modules within a computing environment comprised of hardware and software components that include at least one specifically configured processor as noted throughout. The at least one specifically configured processor is arranged to execute program instructions that process the various types of input data and carry out the analytical functions as described further herein. Also included is a data ingest module configured to receive input data and distribute that information to the various modules within the vegetation salinity stress module additional data processing modules decision support toolkit the soil salinity transport model and generally within the analytical framework and modeling process of the present invention.

It is to be understood that the capacity of soil to regulate the ground and atmosphere water supply is a fundamental aspect of an environmental ecosystem. When water percolates through soil it is filtered stored for plant uptake and redistributed across tortuous flow paths to groundwater and surface water bodies. This creates a sustainable water resource considering both quantity and quality that is directly influenced by soil and environmental ecosystems.

Soil water dynamics involve many factors that vary in a vertical direction with depth in a lateral direction across soil horizons and temporally in response to short term and long term weather and climate. The soil salinity transport model of the present invention analyzes such soil water dynamics by considering at least the following fundamental concepts 1 generation of a soil moisture balance equation to analyze and associate water movement 2 incorporation of factors and soil properties that govern water potential and plant soil available water holding capacity and 3 inclusion of soil morphology and classification methods to describe the life cycle of water in soil. These concepts are integrated with salinity and sodicity characteristics to estimate a time dependent representation of EC SAR ESP soil pH and TSS values.

The soil salinity transport model formulates these concepts under several assumptions. One such assumption is a horizontal flow in groundwater aquifer. Another is a two dimensional mainly lateral water flow. The soil salinity transport model further assumes a laminar flow in a saturation zone. Another assumption is an unconfined aquifer with heterogeneous isotropy soil properties. A further assumption is that sources of water are restricted to precipitation either natural or supplemental such as via irrigation and saltwater.

As noted above the soil salinity transport model generates a soil moisture balance equation for each point of water flow and salt flow in the root zone portion of the soil water ecosystem. This balance equation analyzes water holding capacity and movement in soil considers the following parameters for each point soil porosity n rooting depth Z water surface supply rate P evaporation evapotranspiration E runoff R and drainage D .

The water surface supply rate typically represents the net water at the upper soil surface that is supplied either from atmospheric sources or from irrigation. When considering atmospheric sources available in the form of rainfall this value is generated from measured or estimated precipitation with a fractional reduction due to vegetative interception of rainfall. In the event of frozen precipitation where the soils have a frost front beneath the root zone the water surface supply rate is equivalent to the snowmelt rate at the upper soil surface. The drainage parameter represents the amount of water lost from the root zone due to infiltration to soil horizons beneath the root zone or through lateral movements outside the model lateral boundaries. The model computes the time varying matric potential and soil field capacity by considering the remnant soil moisture after losses due to evaporation evapotranspiration and leakage. This is expressed as 

The matric potential and soil field water capacity describe the ability of water to move in soil and along with the lateral and vertical drainage provide an opportunity to estimate the transport and accumulation of TSS and water flows across a watershed or sub watershed. Extending this to consider regions containing suspected saltwater contamination the area of study is subdivided into cells for calculating the lateral transfer of water salt. This movement is characterized as an unconfined flow of groundwater where for unsteady flow it can be expressed in a general flow equation that combines Darcy s Law with mass conservation. Given the slow rate of soil water movement the kinetic energy generated is minimal and suggests that flow is driven in the direction of the potential energy gradient where the soil water potential is dominated by the matric potential. The resulting flows are dependent upon this soil water potential as determined from the preceding relationship for time varying matric potential and soil water field capacity.

The groundwater aquifer is defined from the affiliated groundwater database with fluctuations provided by wellhead monitors for the watershed in question. Since the groundwater basin is considered impermeable at the bottom layer flow of water and salt is restricted to horizontal and upward leaching movement with time. Water and salt movement due to its relationship with water potential in soil is closely linked with storage. The dynamics of the soil water flow is influenced by the soil texture and structure plus the accumulation of salt. For flow restricted to two dimensions the resulting Laplace equation in terms of the hydraulic head can be solved readily using methods such as successive over relaxation.

The movement and dispersion of water and solute are estimated using a modified form of the Richards equation. This equation is based upon the volume wetness and matric suction head and given by 

A measured salt concentration provides an estimation of water flow rates as a function of the potential energy gradient and the soil saturated hydraulic conductivity which is governed by porosity. Since the porosity will diminish with increased salinity the increased electric conductivity will serve as an output metric to the extent of salination occurring in the soils. As differing soils will have different morphological characteristics the soils database provides soils data forming the basis for initialization of soils type in the region being analyzed to further categorize life cycles of water in soils. For example clay rich soils have low saturated hydraulic conductivity. Conversely sandy soils have larger pores that facilitate rapid water flow.

The analytical framework and modeling process of the present invention generates an assessment of salinity contamination of soils in a decision support toolkit that incorporates the various levels of information that are aggregated and modeled. The decision support toolkit may generate the agricultural and environmental impact analysis and salinity contamination assessment using the soil contamination profile in one or more data processing modules .

The decision support toolkit may be configured so that salinity contamination of soils is graphically depicted from solutions to the analysis soil water dynamics performed in the soil salinity transport model . Varying levels of initialized values permits the end user to gain an awareness of the levels of contamination both from spatial and temporal perspectives. Providing varying levels of assumed or observed atmospheric conditions further provides guidance on the extent of present and potential future contamination.

The present invention provides this assessment via in one embodiment a graphical user interface that may include a mapping workspace with associated selectable analysis and graphics tools plus drop down dialog boxes for selecting specific user desired operations. The assessment process incorporates a user interface for management and evaluation of all data collected. Each event exists as a distinct object with a separate file hierarchy producing a case file repository. The decision support toolkit provides both a geospatial representation of the remotely sensed vegetation data i.e. satellite and UAS imagery ground truth information i.e. surface and sub surface field measurements documented reports of events and actions and projections of potential spatial changes in the contamination levels with respect to time.

The decision support toolkit also includes event configurable resources that provide a framework for data mining of the observed and modeled information to explore extent of potential contamination. The configurable resources include spectral settings for evaluating imagery data configurable thresholds for EC SAR ESP soil pH and TSS values and configurable threat level thresholds for defining contamination levels. To provide delineation of event extents the toolkit has an interactive geospatial mapping capability to establish variable spatial buffers. An interactive text tool permits the analyst to generate event documentation of contamination level findings. The combination of the information is depicted thematically with defined algorithms for combining the thematic factors to produce a weighted soil contamination index.

The present invention generates the soil contamination profile and the agricultural and environmental impact analysis and salinity contamination assessment as output data that may be customized and provided to end users such as well operators landowners livestock owners and the agriculture industry generally as a service. End users for the output data of the analytical framework and modeling process of the present invention is targeted to a varied audience. The output data supports oil and gas operators required to monitor for soil salinity contamination landowners and crop producers who are impacted by salination problems and government monitors and regulators for soil salination and mitigation activities among many others. The decision support toolkit may in one embodiment reside on an end user s desktop computer or as a mobile application that interfaces to a host computer that is provides the modeling and guidance generation. The mapping functions on the end user s interface can be exported to other GIS software platforms or to spreadsheets related to data management systems used by the end user. Analysis and interpretations services can be added from the service provider as part of a consultation service.

In one embodiment the decision support toolkit may be configured to generate haptic vibrations or other tactile notifications to the user s mobile or other computing device. Other types of notifications may include those provided via applications resident on mobile telephony tablet or wearable devices are also possible such as for example a voice based output generated to verbally notify farmers or growers of increased risk of contamination or a recommended change in irrigation practice for a specific period of time. The present invention also contemplates that output data may be generated for visual representation of the information contained for example on a graphical user interface. For example users may be able to configure settings for and view various aspects of the analytical framework and modeling process of the present invention using a display on such a graphical user interfaces and or via web based or application based modules. Tools and pull down menus on such a display or in web based or application based modules may also be provided to customize the various aspects of the soil salinity transport model as well as the output data .

As noted above the output data of the present invention may be used to generate a plurality of advisory services in conjunction with one or more application programming interface API modules . These advisory services provide enhanced decision making support to several aspects of both responsive action to soil contamination and precision agricultural production in the presence of soil contamination.

These advisory services are driven by generation of the reporting aspects of the output data within the soil contamination profile and agricultural and environmental impact analysis and salinity contamination assessment . Each of advisory service enriches the utilization and application of the analytical framework and detection and modeling process of the present invention.

One such advisory service is a soil modeling service . A specific API module is incorporated enable application of the output data to one or more sophisticated soil models to generate information that provides a better understanding of current and future soil conditions relative to historical soil conditions and light of the presence of salts in the soil contamination profile . Such soil models support the use of existing soil properties e.g. organic matter soil type etc. tillage practices presence of tile drainage and irrigation history along with the advanced long range weather forecasting that may also be applied to the present invention in meteorological data . This coupling of the soil contamination profile with advanced weather forecasting information for an entire growing season provides a valuable tool for indicating crop potential in the presence of contamination soils. The output of an API module generating this soil modeling service may be further configured to provide a detailed past through future analysis of soil temperature and moisture assessments including freeze and thaw information the amount of water throughput runoff or ponding of soils and an important interpretation of workability of the soils. Soil models contemplated for use in the present invention may include models such as the EPIC APEX and ICBM soil models.

Another advisory service is soil conditions forecasting service . The soil modeling service allows the soil contamination profile and agricultural and environmental impact analysis and salinity contamination assessment to be used with at least the predicted weather information from the meteorological data and the pipeline and drilling data to provide an estimate of a state of future soil condition and generate a forecast of soil temperature and moisture conditions for the specified field location. Such a forecast enables anticipation of periods of suitable soil conditions for field operations including workability particularly those after periods of rainfall with an understanding of the presence of salts in soils and specific field locations. Such a forecast enables anticipation of in field crop dry down and moisture levels at specific times that impact drying costs and storage costs.

As noted above the vegetation and crop data may include crop modeling information such as output data of an augmented crop growth model that indicates of expected growing degree days for a timeline for the various stages of crop growth. When utilized prior to the growing season using the soil condition forecasting service the present invention can be configured to provide a planting prediction reporting service as an advisory service that enables simulation of an entire growing season before it occurs while taking into account a salinity contamination assessment from the soil contamination profile and the agricultural and environmental impact analysis and salinity contamination assessment . This may be applied with season long weather forecasting capabilities and an assessment of accumulated growing degree days throughout the growing season enables making an informed decision as to what type of crop or its cultivar to select optimization of successful completion of a selected crop and mitigation activities such as what crops to plants and when to alleviate salinity contamination. When coupled with an entire growing season s growing degreed days estimation and the weather output from an extended range weather forecast a planting prediction reporting service provides multi faceted information regarding planting operations such as near term field conditions soil moisture and temperature and expected seasonal growth metrics. This planting prediction reporting service provides likely periods of suitability of weather and soil conditions including soil workability soil temperatures potential adverse post planting weather conditions and the likelihood that the crop will reach maturity under salinity contamination.

Yet another advisory as a downstream or follow on service from output data of the present invention is a nutrient forecasting service . The present invention may as noted above further incorporate crop modeling information as part of vegetation data and this can provide knowledge of expected growing degree days for a timeline for the various stages of crop growth. Each of these stages has differing nutrient needs and this may be heavily influenced by the present of salinity indicated by the soil contamination profile and the agricultural and environmental impact analysis and salinity contamination assessment . The nutrient forecasting service uses timing of these stages predicted by the accumulated growing degree day timeline along with output data from the soil modeling service and or soil conditions forecasting service to identify periods of suitability of soil conditions for continued satisfactory crop growth and anticipates the impact of soil contamination on saturation and the loss of available nutrients via leaching denitrification and other soil and water related crop growth factors. The nutrient forecasting service may also provide a recommendation of how much plant nutrient such as a fertilizer or other plant or soil treatment should be applied and an estimate of how much of the treatment applied at the crop s location may be leached away by excessive moisture and soil saturation in light of the assessment in the soil contamination profile and agricultural and environmental impact analysis and salinity contamination assessment . The nutrient forecasting service may also be used retrospectively to evaluate treatment effectiveness loss due to soil and rain conditions that have recently occurred in the presence of contamination.

Another advisory service as a downstream or follow on service from output data of the present invention is a pest and disease prediction service . The presence of saltwater contamination of soil strata may have an impact on the type and nature of pests and diseases that infiltrate soil strata which in turn has differing impacts depending upon the growth stage of a crop. Similarly the variability of weather conditions can further influence potential crop disease and pest conditions and the output of an augmented crop growth model provides a timeline identification of the various crop growth stages. This information informs a valuable tool for deciding the best course for integrated pest and disease management activities in response to the soil contamination assessment. The pest and disease prediction service therefore provides assessments of the conduciveness of contaminated soils to various disease and pest pressures at the current time through the end of the growing season. The pest prediction information from this advisory service helps in assessing the relative risk vs. reward i.e. cost vs. benefit of potential applications such as pesticides to prevent crop damage due to factors such as disease or insects.

Another advisory service as an output of the present invention is a salinity contamination mitigation service . The presence of saltwater contamination of soil strata has an obvious impact on crop planting growing and harvest conditions. Certain crops however may act to mitigate the impact of salinity contamination on soils and therefore an advisory service may be provided that assists growers and landowners with contamination mitigation activities to improve planting growing and harvest conditions of other or future crops. Such contamination mitigation service may provide suggested seed information periods of time for planting and harvesting of mitigating crops or other vegetation and suggested applicants to further reduce the impact of salinity contamination particularly combined with information such as groundwater and watershed data and meteorological data . The contamination mitigation service may combine information contained within the soil contamination profile and agricultural and environmental impact analysis and salinity contamination assessment with outputs from other services to further tailor mitigation activities.

Irrigation is another issue heavily affected by salinity contamination of soils. The present invention contemplates an irrigation advisory service as another advisory service as an output of the present invention. In addition to affecting crop planting growing and harvest conditions the presence of excessive salts in soil strata also has a major impact on the movement of water throughout layers of soil as noted throughout. Accordingly such an advisory service may be of help to growers and landowners in planning for irrigation activities throughout a growing season where soils have been contaminated. As with other advisories the irrigation advisory service may combine aspects of input data with output data of an augmented crop growth model that indicates of expected growing degree days for a timeline for the various stages of crop growth and information with the soil contamination profile and agricultural and environmental impact analysis and salinity contamination assessment to produce specific information that helps growers and landowners optimize irrigation activities in fields with contaminated soils.

One major implication of the presence of excessive salts on the movement of water throughout layers of soil is contamination of the groundwater and aquifer systems whether or not they are part of the geographical area being monitored and modeled. It is therefore to be understood that surface irrigation may itself be contaminated from its source even where soil systems in the same geographical are not themselves contaminated. In other words irrigation water being applied to crops or fields may include contaminated surface or groundwater and this may have a material impact on crop growth and rangeland.

It is therefore to be further noted that the analytical framework and detection and modeling process of the present invention may also be configured to generate a corresponding assessment of groundwater and aquifer contamination. The irrigation advisory service may therefore also be configured to provide in addition to an irrigation recommendation based on soil contamination a further recommendation that takes into account contamination of groundwater and aquifer systems. The analytical framework and detection and modeling process of the present invention may model additional input data in the form of information from an irrigation model that specifically analyzes contamination in groundwater and aquifer systems whether it be from salinity contamination of soils or from other sources. Therefore the irrigation advisory service may be enhanced to provide recommendations for growers and landowners in planning for irrigation activities throughout a growing season where the irrigation source has itself been contaminated. This enhanced irrigation advisory service may also provide such recommendations solely based on water contamination.

Another advisory service that combines information provided by the soil contamination profile and agricultural and environmental impact analysis and salinity contamination assessment outputs with information generated by an augmented crop growth model is a harvest helper reporting service . Accumulated growing degree day estimations that are routinely updated provide an important metric for determining when a crop will reach maturity. However it should be noted that the harvest of a crop involves factors that are heavily affected by vegetation stress from excessive salinity and from soil strata contaminated with salts. The harvest helper reporting service applies the soil contamination profile and agricultural and environmental impact analysis and salinity contamination assessment together with soil conditions forecast and information such as crop plant and weather data to estimate the timing of harvest operations. Such an advisory may also weigh the relative costs of fuel based forced air drying vs. the risks associated with loss of standing crop to adverse weather conditions. The harvest helper reporting service also provides information on possible loss of field workability due to the presence of salts in the soil layers prior to post harvest tillage. This reporting service may be further used to develop additional tools that include estimation standing crop dry down rates harvest dates and suitability fuel consumption optimization for forced air drying and plant toughness and other issues affected by salinity contamination.

Each of the above advisories may be provided separately bundled or customized as a ClearAg Alerts service . The importance of information provided to production agriculture in the present invention dictates a necessity for an effective and direct method of conveying information. The ClearAg Alerts service may utilize a push technology for immediate and direct dissemination of information provided as output data . The API module that generates this service may be configured to so that users may receive alerts for the purposes of managing and timing field operations in light of existed and forecasted salinity contamination. This is supported by user specified elements including alert parameters location s lead time s time s of day and the particular device s to receive the alerts.

The systems and methods of the present invention may be implemented in many different computing environments . For example they may be implemented in conjunction with a special purpose computer a programmed microprocessor or microcontroller and peripheral integrated circuit element s an ASIC or other integrated circuit a digital signal processor electronic or logic circuitry such as discrete element circuit a programmable logic device or gate array such as a PLD PLA FPGA PAL and any comparable means. In general any means of implementing the methodology illustrated herein can be used to implement the various aspects of the present invention. Exemplary hardware that can be used for the present invention includes computers handheld devices telephones e.g. cellular Internet enabled digital analog hybrids and others and other such hardware. Some of these devices include processors e.g. a single or multiple microprocessors memory nonvolatile storage input devices and output devices. Furthermore alternative software implementations including but not limited to distributed processing parallel processing or virtual machine processing can also be configured to perform the methods described herein.

The systems and methods of the present invention may also be partially implemented in software that can be stored on a storage medium executed on programmed general purpose computer with the cooperation of a controller and memory a special purpose computer a microprocessor or the like. In these instances the systems and methods of this invention can be implemented as a program embedded on personal computer such as an applet JAVA or CGI script as a resource residing on a server or computer workstation as a routine embedded in a dedicated measurement system system component or the like. The system can also be implemented by physically incorporating the system and or method into a software and or hardware system.

Additionally the data processing functions disclosed herein may be performed by one or more program instructions stored in or executed by such memory and further may be performed by one or more modules configured to carry out those program instructions. Modules are intended to refer to any known or later developed hardware software firmware artificial intelligence fuzzy logic expert system or combination of hardware and software that is capable of performing the data processing functionality described herein.

The foregoing descriptions of embodiments of the present invention have been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Accordingly many alterations modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings may be made by those having ordinary skill in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. It is therefore intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description. For example notwithstanding the fact that the elements of a claim are set forth below in a certain combination it must be expressly understood that the invention includes other combinations of fewer more or different elements which are disclosed in above even when not initially claimed in such combinations.

The words used in this specification to describe the invention and its various embodiments are to be understood not only in the sense of their commonly defined meanings but to include by special definition in this specification structure material or acts beyond the scope of the commonly defined meanings. Thus if an element can be understood in the context of this specification as including more than one meaning then its use in a claim must be understood as being generic to all possible meanings supported by the specification and by the word itself.

The definitions of the words or elements of the following claims are therefore defined in this specification to include not only the combination of elements which are literally set forth but all equivalent structure material or acts for performing substantially the same function in substantially the same way to obtain substantially the same result. In this sense it is therefore contemplated that an equivalent substitution of two or more elements may be made for any one of the elements in the claims below or that a single element may be substituted for two or more elements in a claim. Although elements may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such it is to be expressly understood that one or more elements from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and that the claimed combination may be directed to a sub combination or variation of a sub combination.

Insubstantial changes from the claimed subject matter as viewed by a person with ordinary skill in the art now known or later devised are expressly contemplated as being equivalently within the scope of the claims. Therefore obvious substitutions now or later known to one with ordinary skill in the art are defined to be within the scope of the defined elements.

The claims are thus to be understood to include what is specifically illustrated and described above what is conceptually equivalent what can be obviously substituted and also what essentially incorporates the essential idea of the invention.

