---

title: Content distribution system and method
abstract: Methods, systems, and articles of manufacture consistent with the present invention provide an electronic marketplace that matches units of content from secondary content providers with suitable vacancies from primary content providers. Vacancies may constitute, or be included in, any digital transmission containers, such as a television or radio programming, web pages, and the like. Specifically, the electronic marketplace automatically matches content offered by secondary content providers with vacancies offered by primary content providers thus filling the vacancies in these containers through a real-time content trading, placement, and distribution system. To do so, attributes associated with the vacancies and with units of secondary content are used to trade and match suitable vacancies with suitable content. This invention enables both secondary content owners and vacancy owners (primary content providers) to obtain the full commercial benefit of their secondary content and containers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09635408&OS=09635408&RS=09635408
owner: QUANTUM STREAM INC.
number: 09635408
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151023
---
This application claims priority to and is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 832 443 filed Aug. 21 2015. This application also claims priority to and is related to the following applications and patents U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 937 822 filed Jul. 9 2013 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 937 843 also filed Jul. 9 2013 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 650 125 issued Feb. 11 2014 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 971 392 filed Aug. 20 2013 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 682 794 issued Mar. 25 2014 and Ser. No. 13 971 434 filed Aug. 20 2013 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 688 582 issued Apr. 1 2014 . U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 832 443 filed Aug. 21 2015 claims priority to and is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 727 502 filed Jun. 1 2015 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 117 228 issued Aug. 25 2015 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 653 894 entitled the same and filed on Oct. 17 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 047 626 issued Jun. 2 2015 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 891 921 entitled the same and filed on Sep. 28 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 315 949 issued on Nov. 20 2012 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 355 204 entitled the same and filed on Feb. 16 2006 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 831 512 issued on Nov. 9 2010 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 630 720 filed on Aug. 2 2000 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 532 048 filed on Mar. 21 2000 which relies upon and claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 155 015 filed Sep. 21 1999. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 630 720 also relies upon and claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 155 015. All provisional and non provisional applications listed above are hereby incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

The invention relates generally to content distribution systems and more particularly to a system for distributing digital content associated with a container based on a relationship between attributes associated with the digital content and attributes associated with a defined region of the container. The container may constitute or be included in any digital transmission such as a television or radio programming web pages and the like.

Content generally comprises any kind of text audible message and or visual. Today content is reduced to bits and bytes for transmission and visual and or audible output. Content finds its way into our homes via output devices such as televisions with or without set top boxes radios computer networks e.g. the Internet and the like. Content also makes its way into our everyday routine via portable output devices such as pagers personal digital assistants PDAs wireless telephones e.g. cellular or satellite and the like.

Generally content is provided to these output devices based on arrangements made long before the transmission from a source to the output devices. For example primary content providers such as television stations radio stations publishers on the Internet Internet Service Providers pager service companies and other entities that provide a medium or network for transmitting content to an audience enter into agreements with content providers such as advertisers to transmit units of content such as advertisements at predetermined times intervals locations etc. to all or specific devices.

But transmission of content units is not limited to advertisements. Other types of content providers also prearrange for the transmission or airing of their content. For example entities that produce programs secondary content for television enter into agreements with television stations and networks primary content providers to transmit specific programs at predetermined times. The same is true for the other forms of entertainment edutainment and communication described above.

Providers of primary and secondary content merge their content before delivery to the consumer. These arrangements are often negotiated long before delivery to the consumer and through a labor intensive process. Therefore at the time of transmission the predetermined cost to the content providers does not necessarily reflect the current level or interest in the secondary or primary content at the time of transmission. For example a primary content provider may experience an unexpected surge in interest in a particular program at a particular time but the provider may not be able to reap the financial benefit of the additional interest by for example charging secondary content providers such as advertisers accordingly for advertising during the surge. Moreover prearranged arrangements may prevent certain advertisers and producers from competing effectively for transmission time from the primary content provider.

For example the barriers for publishing content on the Internet are low. A computer equipped with a communication mechanism such as a modem and telephone connection is nearly all that is necessary to gain access to the Internet. A program called a web browser such as the NETSCAPE NAVIGATOR from NETSCAPE Corporation makes it a simple task to traverse the vast network of information available on the Internet and specifically its subpart known as the World Wide Web. 

The architecture of the web follows a conventional client server model. The term client and server are used to refer to a computer s general role as a requester of data the client or provider of data the server . In conventional settings a web browser resides in each client and is used to access specially formatted web pages that reside on Internet web servers. Web clients and web servers communicate using a conventional protocol called HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP .

In operation a web browser opens a connection to a web server and initiates a request for a document using a Uniform Resource Locator URL . The web server delivers the requested document typically in a standard coded format such as the HyperText Markup Language HTML format. After the document is delivered the connection is closed. The web browser renders the document displaying content or performing a function designated by the document. In this way tile web server publishes content.

With the explosive growth of e commerce the Internet is poised to realize its potential as a revolutionary way for businesses to interact with their customers and each other. This potential is evident with the growth of e commerce as applied to certain business fields such as retailing advertising and content syndication. Certain known business methods and conventional implementations of these methods allow for deployment of each of these fields on the Internet and for primary or secondary content providers to earn revenue for participating in this market. However these fields remain artificially disjointed and monolithic in their deployment.

Therefore there is a need for a system that can combine the diverse area of commerce into a single universally accessible system to all content providers. Such a system not only permits digital content providers to explicitly target consumers and medium but also it permits primary content providers such as web publishers cellular service providers and broadcasters or secondary content providers to maximize their revenues for part of their medium.

Methods systems and articles of manufacture consistent with embodiments of the present invention overcome the shortcomings of existing systems for example by providing a means for creating within content of any digital medium designated regions vacancies which are reserved to be filled by other secondary digital content by providing a means for creating units of content which can fill the vacancies and by providing an automated broker that responds to real time notifications of vacancies that need content selects appropriate units of content for each vacancy and transmits in real time the content unit information to fill each vacancy. Both the vacancies and the content units that fill them have attributes that may be used to determine how and when a vacancy will be filled by a unit of content or how and when a unit of content can be used. The automated broker may use marketplace trading mechanisms to determine the matching and selection of content. A vacancy may be included in any digital medium such as digital video or digital audio web pages email and the like. Correspondingly the unit of content that fills a vacancy can constitute any digital medium.

At different times a single vacancy may be filled with a variety of types of different content from any source. Conversely a single vacancy in content that is distributed to multiple consumers may be filled with different content for each consumer at the same time thus making the vacancy also a method for seamlessly assembling multi sourced mix and match content on the fly.

Trading and placing content units within vacancies for content enables both primary content owners and secondary content owners to obtain the full commercial and consumer benefit of their content.

In an implementation consistent with an embodiment the present invention a method for creating vacancies within content is provided. A vacancy is a designated region within digital content which is reserved to be filled by other secondary digital content. Each vacancy has attributes that can be used to determine how and when that vacancy will be filled by secondary content. At different times a single vacancy may be filled with a variety of types of different content from any source thus making the vacancy also a method for assembling on the fly mix and match content.

In another implementation consistent with the present invention a method for creating a modular unit of digital content a snap in is provided. For example a snap in may be as simple as a graphic image or as complex as a complete view of an email in box or a digital audio public message or a digital video advertisement. The term snap in connotes that it can fit into a vacancy. Each snap in has attributes that describe it fully and that can be used to determine how and when that snap in will be used.

In another implementation consistent with the present invention a method for creating a content broker that matches and selects snap ins for vacancies is provided. The broker may be server software that runs on a service provider s computers. The broker may include software that manages a database of information about available snap ins and vacancies. The broker also includes software that can respond in real time to notifications of content vacancies that need to be filled The broker includes software that can compare the attributes of a vacancy with available snap ins and that can apply market mechanisms trading in the course of selecting a content snap in for a vacancy. The broker can track the use of vacancies and the use of snap ins. The broker also includes software that can distribute or transmit a snap in to each vacancy to be filled.

In another implementation consistent with an embodiment of the present invention a method is provided for notifying a broker or service provider in real time of a vacancy opening that needs to be filled with content. The notification may be transmitted across a network such as the Internet and may include vacancy information such as the attributes of the open vacancy and other information including data on the consumer of the digital content that contains the vacancy.

In another implementation consistent with an embodiment of the present invention a method for merging a snap in s content into the reserved region designated by a vacancy in digital content is provided. This merging may occur in real time. This merging will provide the end consumer of content that contained vacancies with a seamless and personalizable experience of final content that may have been assembled on the fly from multiple units of content from multiple sources.

Systems and articles of manufacture corresponding to these implementations are also provided within the scope of the present invention.

The following detailed description of the invention refers to the accompanying drawings. Although the description includes exemplary implementations other implementations are possible and changes may be made to the implementations described without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. The following detailed description does not limit the invention. Instead the scope of the invention is defined by the appended claims. Wherever possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings and the following description to refer to the same or like parts.

Methods systems and articles of manufacture consistent with an embodiment of the present invention provide a marketplace and distribution mechanism that matches and trades units of content and containers of content using attributes associated with the content units and containers and merges matched content within the matched containers. Such methods systems and articles enable primary content providers to make available and fill these containers in real time using a content trading and placement process facilitated by the marketplace. This enables web publishers information providers and broadcasters to receive content for their containers in real time and obtain value based returns for permitting secondary content providers to fill these containers with content. Similarly this marketplace approach enables content providers to define units of content and distribute them in real time into suitable containers and to obtain value based returns for permitting web publishers information providers and broadcasters to use these units of content.

Vacancies are spatial or temporal regions that may constitute or be included in content containers. A vacancy is a place reserved to hold a unit of content created by a content provider. In one example a container such as a web page may contain vacancies in the form of spatially defined regions within the web page. In another example a container such as an audio program may contain vacancies in the form of temporally defined regions designated for embedding units of second party content such as advertising or public service announcements. In yet another example a container such as a text message intended for devices such as pagers cellular phones or PDAs may contain a vacancy in the form of a region designated for a unit of embedded data sourced from a secondary content provider such as personalized news sports or advertising.

A consumer may receive the container as a primary content stream. Any vacancies in the container are open to accept suitable content from a suitable secondary content provider. The marketplace may locate a suitable secondary content provider whose content stream is transmitted to the consumer within any designated portions vacancies within the primary content stream.

A vacancy is a region owned by a vacancy provider that can be used for any suitable use by any secondary content provider for any number of use units e.g. impressions at any monetary price or in exchange for any other instrument of value within the marketplace . A vacancy provider may be a web publisher broadcaster information providers or any other entity that makes vacancies available to secondary content providers. A vacancy provider may allocate permanent or temporary occupancy to secondary digital content providers based on content context suitability and pricing considerations that are negotiated by the marketplace. In other words the vacancy provider may dictate the type of content needed for allocated regions within the vacancy provider s medium. The suitability pricing matching is negotiated in a marketplace based on the vacancy attributes that the vacancy provider attaches to the vacancy and attributes that a secondary content provider attaches to a particular unit of content.

Vacancy providers create vacancies with attributes such as dynamic attributes and static attributes. These attributes identify each vacancy by type methods systems and articles of manufacture consistent with an embodiment of the present invention provide a marketplace and distribution mechanism that matches and trades units of content and containers of content using attributes associated with the content units and containers and merges matched content within the matched containers. Such methods systems and articles enable primary content providers to make available and fill these containers in real time using a content trading and placement process facilitated by the marketplace. This enables web publishers information providers and broadcasters to receive content for their containers in real time and obtain value based returns for permitting secondary content providers to fill these containers with content. Similarly this marketplace approach enables content providers to define units of content and distribute them in real time into suitable containers and to obtain value based returns for permitting web publishers information providers and broadcasters to use these units of content.

Vacancies are spatial or temporal regions that may constitute or be included in content containers. A vacancy is a place reserved to hold a unit of content created by a content provider. In one example a container such as a web page may contain vacancies in the form of spatially defined regions within the web page. In another example a container such as an audio program may contain vacancies in the form of temporally defined regions designated for embedding units of second party content such as advertising or public service announcements. In yet another example a container such as a text message intended for devices such as pagers cellular phones or PDAs may contain a vacancy in the form of a region designated for a unit of embedded data sourced from a secondary content provider such as personalized news sports or advertising.

A consumer may receive the container as a primary content stream. Any vacancies in the container are open to accept suitable content from a suitable secondary content provider. The marketplace may locate a suitable secondary content provider whose content stream is transmitted to the consumer within any designated portions vacancies within the primary content stream and the suitable secondary content to fill the vacancy. Static attributes may include required secondary content type such as teenage advertising sales opportunity syndicated news an audio stream the physical size and location of the vacancy time and date qualifications for the vacancy or classification of the vacancy. Dynamic attributes are defined as attributes that can change or be derived at any time or attributes that are evaluated just in time as the vacancy is offered. Depending on the medium dynamic attributes may contain any combination of changing information for example about the specific consumer the content environment or previous consumer interactions with the content environment. Different media may offer different mechanisms for transmitting dynamic attributes along with other vacancy information. As an example in the case of a web publisher a vacancy may include dynamic attributes such as real time web site traffic. When traffic is low at the web site the cost to fill the vacancy may be four cents per impression however when web traffic is high the cost may be six cents per impression. Another type of dynamic attribute is keywords. For example the value of a keyword entered by a consumer during a search request may be provided via HTTP as a dynamic attribute of a vacancy and used to help locate suitable secondary content for that vacancy which will appear with the search results content. That is if a consumer enters the keyword car in a search web page content relating to cars may be used to fill the vacancy located on the search results web page. Advertisers may compete for such keyword based placement opportunities via a real time automated auction. Another example of a dynamic attribute is consumer demographics.

 snap in comprises a unit of digital content and or content meta data with associated attributes. The name derives from the idea that these content units can be merged or snapped into placement opportunities vacancies within primary content based on matching. Some examples of types of snap in include context sensitive advertising syndicated content or virtual storefronts. Virtual storefronts are defined as any content with which the consumer can interact to purchase goods or services. An example of a virtual storefront would be a World Wide Web bookshop s HTML listing of 5 books on sale which can be embedded within a suitable web page and whose book topics can dynamically match the ambient content of that web page. The attributes of a snap in can also be static or dynamic attributes. Static attributes may relate to the content provider nature of content etc. Dynamic attributes are attributes that are evaluated just in time as the snap in is being delivered to a specific vacancy opportunity in order to customize the snap in for that specific vacancy opportunity. An example of this would be a keyword attribute on a bookstore snap in that would enable the book listing content to match the consumer. Providers of digital content units also known as snap in providers create snap ins that may be plugged into vacancies. A snap in provider interested in placing snap ins may set the attributes for each snap in to target or match suitable vacancies. The broker or marketplace fills vacancies with snap ins by matching and trading them based on the attributes of both the snap ins and the vacancies.

The invention comprises a number of components such as host software adapter software a service provider vacancy editor software and snap in editor software. Vacancy editor enables vacancy providers to create vacancies and define attributes for those vacancies. Host software transmits and receives in real time information about a vacancy with the service provider. Depending on the medium or content type host software can reside on the consumer computer or the primary content distributor s computer. Adapter software if necessary for the type of content and environment merges snap in content into vacancies within content containers. Depending on the medium or content type host software can reside on the consumer computer or the primary content distributor s computer. The service provider facilitates the process of filling vacancies with snap ins by providing a real time content matching trading placement and distribution system. A snap in editor enables a secondary digital content provider to define a unit of content and its attributes. A vacancy editor enables a primary digital content provider to define a secondary content placement opportunity within container content and the attributes of that placement opportunity. Depending on the content type and medium snap in editors and vacancy editors can be as simple as a text editor or can be more user friendly software. For example in the World Wide Web vacancies may be defined using XML tags embedded within a simple HTML page or with Javascript used to create placement opportunities. In a similar way depending on the content type and medium adapter or host software can be in the form of medium specific features such as Javascript in the World Wide Web.

One of the many applications of the marketplace is in the field of advertising. The marketplace system provides a number of benefits over traditional advertising systems. First the marketplace enables digital content providers to dynamically seek the most favorable placement opportunities based on real time data. Digital content providers can create robust campaigns that match digital content in real time to any targeted criteria including full consumer profiles contextual content and search keywords. Using the marketplace digital content is placed in real time on any suitable medium that draws a mass audience finding the best audience hour by hour or even minute by minute as traffic or consumers change.

Second the marketplace enables vacancy providers to set up any number of single or multi purpose precisely defined placement opportunities within their container content. These vacancies are then automatically filled with a suitable snap in. The vacancy contains attributes that give the vacancy provider complete control over the digital content that appears in their content s vacancies. Because placement opportunity in these vacancies may be traded using real time auctions vacancy providers achieve maximum value from their minute to minute audience.

Third the marketplace provides a real time electronic marketplace for trading in digital real estate vacancies and snap ins . Software agents can mediate the trading of vacancies and snap ins. Automated real time auction mechanisms in the service provider can enable digital content owners to maximize digital asset value without user intervention. Software configured with participant s preferences can act as marketplace agents that enable a snap in provider or a vacancy provider to achieve a desired result.

A snap in is created by a snap in editor software such as a web based interface or other interface consisting of software that prompts the user to enter metadata to the snap in content or the snap in content or meta data itself as well as the snap in s associated attributes and dynamic attributes . The snap in editor software may be remotely located at service provider . In that case the snap in editor software may be a web wizard program that helps a user create snap ins using the web. Depending upon implementation and configuration of distribution system the snap in editor program may be configured differently. In a different implementation such as for broadcast or PCS applications the snap in editor software may contain content information and attributes suitable for that application. Snap in is designed to fill vacancy and contains attributes to help in matching a vacancy in real time.

As shown in Figure SA primary content distributor server includes a memory a secondary storage device a CPU an input device and a video display . Memory includes host software and adapter software . Optionally it may include vacancy editor software vacancy editor enables primary content providers to create vacancies for their containers. Host software transmits information associated with vacancies to a service provider server each time a consumer computer requests a container that contains a vacancy . Host software broadcasts information corresponding to the vacancy such as vacancy attributes to service provider . In a web environment a web software such as the APACHE web software may also be included in host software to transmit and receive web pages. Adapter software merges content with vacancies as the content is delivered to host software from either snap in provider server or service provider server .

One potential configuration involves an in process web server extension or filter that cooperates with the host web server to perform the adapter functions described above. In an alternative configuration the adapter and host software resides on a separate proxy server. The proxy server is configured to intercept all requests to web server by for example listening on port which is the port that web requests typically come in and on which the web server is usually listening. The web server is therefore configured to listen on a different port such as port . In one configuration both the web server and the proxy server processes are implemented on a single computer although they may be distributed on different machines. The proxy server is also configured to forward incoming requests to the web sever for a response. After the web server returns a response to the proxy server the adapter and host software on the proxy performs the functions described above.

As shown in snap in provider server includes a memory a secondary storage decide a CPU and input device and a video display . Memory includes snap in content distribution software and adapter software . Snap in provider software communicates with service provider server and may include web software. Adapter software records consumer follow through activity. For example when a consumer connects to snap in provider server associated with the snap in snap in provider software may notify service provider server of the consumer s selections and activity.

As shown in service provider server includes a memory a secondary storage device a CPU an input device and a video display . Memory stores snap in serving software trading engine matching engine interface software vacancy editor software and a snap in editor software . The snap in serving software resides in memory receives requests for snap ins and delivers snap ins for matching with a vacancy. Trading engine provides a virtual trading floor where vacancies are filled with snap ins based on any snap in s attributes and vacancy attributes. Matching engine receives notifications of a vacancy along with attributes of the vacancy. Matching engine searches the snap ins and identifies snap ins that match the attributes of the vacancy. If there are a plurality of snap ins that match the vacancy a financial competition takes place. The financial competition is managed by trading engine . Hence the trading engine is able to trade auction vacancies and snap ins. Interface software provides access to various features of the service provider including trading preferences and configuration features. Interface software may be a web page Application Program Interfaces API or other input interface. An API is a set of routines protocols or tools for communicating with software applications. APIs provide efficient access to trading engine without the need for additional software to interface with the engine. Vacancy editor software allows a user to define a vacancy without the user having to know a programming language for example without having to know how to program in HTML to create the vacancy. Snap in editor software helps a secondary content provider create and deliver snap ins to a service provider e.g. a web interface . One skilled in the art will appreciate that snap in editor software may be located at snap in provider server .

Secondary storage device contains a database that includes a snap in data and a vacancy data . Snap in data holds information relating to snap ins such as attributes indicated by secondary content providers. Vacancy data holds information relating to various vacancies such as static attributes and dynamic attributes.

As shown in vacancy creation process is initiated for example by displaying a vacancy editor software step . For example a web publisher may use vacancy editor software to graphically define a vacancy within web pages. An exemplary web page with a vacancy is depicted in . Web page contains vacancies .

Next a primary content provider may create a vacancy for a container located at host server step . For example a web publisher may define and link a vacancy region to web page . Finally the vacancy attributes associated with vacancy and the provider attributes are provided to interface software on service provider server step . The vacancy attributes are stored in host file and are accessible to digital content providers for viewing. The attributes are also used during the trading process described below. That is the attributes indicate the suitability or desirability of vacancy to any particular buyer. A vacancy will be matched to suitable second party content through its attributes and will have a value in the marketplace based on its attributes. As consumers request vacancy containing content from host server the vacancy attributes are transmitted through host software to service provider . In addition periodically vacancy attributes may be updated as traffic conditions change at host server . For example when web traffic increases at host server host software notifies interface software of the increase.

As shown in snap in creation process is initiated by accessing snap in editor software e.g. web wizard software located on service provider server step . A secondary content provider may access the service provider s web page through interface . Once accessed the secondary content provider may use the web wizard software to create a snap in step . Each snap in contains attributes as well as digital content. For example a snap in may contain a strategy embodied in a software agent that executes the secondary content provider s bidding trading strategy for a particular vacancy or vacancy attribute. The software agents may be created to bid aggressively under some conditions or less aggressively for others. For example the software agent may be defined to bid high when the primary content of the vacancy will be displayed to a large audience or when the vacancy will be displayed to a target audience such as teenagers. Software agents may adjust their bids based on dynamic property values of current vacancies. For example a software agent may contain a comprehensive policy profile such as targeting or excluding specific vacancy attributes measuring complex web consumer demographics or even bid for a vacancy when specific individuals are involved. Once skilled in the art will appreciate that a vacancy may contain similar strategies as the snap ins. In one implementation the snap in may be implemented as an object and the associated software agent is implemented in the object s methods. For example in an embodiment of the present invention defining a snap in may include defining an algorithm in a conventional or proprietary computer language to assemble specialized content dynamically and to render the content into an appropriate format for its destination medium e.g. a vacancy .

Next the secondary content provider may provide the snap in content or content meta data to a service provider server step . That is the provider may create link or upload content associated with the snap in to a service provider server . The secondary content provider may use snap in editor software to upload the information to service provider server using interface . Finally attributes associated with the snap in and provider attributes may be provided to service provider server step . The attributes may be stored in snap in provider file .

As shown in request process is initiated by receiving a request to provide content to a consumer step . For example a request may be for a web page. Each time browser requests content that contains a vacancy from host server host software transmits information corresponding to the requesting consumer various vacancy attributes and any other attributes e.g. web server attributes to service provider server step . The vacancy may be designated for content such as paid or syndicated content. In instances where the vacancy is sold this information is called a vacancy offering. For example host software may transmit any available demographic information regarding the consumer such as age physical location or software. Host software may obtain demographic information by the requesting consumer s network address and domain name. Host software may also obtain demographics information from a profile created for each consumer. That is host software may require the consumer to login to host server to obtain web pages from host server . Host software may also transmit dynamic vacancy attributes such as required content physical attributes and cost per impression. Additionally host software may transmit web server attributes such as rating information or number of viewers. Once the vacancy offering is received at service provider server the vacancy is matched with a suitable snap in in accordance to trading preferences of snap in providers and vacancies the transaction is executed.

Next host server receives the digital content and tracking information form the selected snap in from interface software step . Once received adapter software merges the content with the vacancy and transmits the snap in content with digital content and transaction information in place of the vacancy to the requesting consumer step . The digital content may be clickable and contain links to a snap in provider location along with various tracking information described below . For example the digital content may contain links to a snap in provider server. If the consumer selects the digital content step the consumer is connected to the snap in provider s server . Snap in provider software on snap in provider server listens for requests that include tracking information from host server . When the tracking information is identified snap in provider software transmits the requested information and at the same time snap in provider software transmits the requested information and at the same time snap in provider software notifies service provider of the request along with any additional selection activity step . For example by maintaining tracking information in a Uniform Resource Locator URL for each web page a consumer views at snap in provider server a web software notifies service provider server . Additionally if a consumer purchases an item through snap in provider server snap in provider server notifies service provider server as well.

Alternatively or additionally the tracking information may be embedded within a file local to the consumer or cookies and later read by a software when that consumer connects to snap in provider server .

As shown in trading process is initiated by locating a snap in for a vacancy based on matching attributes and or market mechanisms step .

Trading engine compares attributes for a vacancy with those of a snap in. A vacancy may be seeking syndicated content whereas a snap in may be a particular type of syndicated content. A market mechanism is any type of method e.g. buy sell or barter used to locate snap ins and vacancies. For example trading engine may use a Vickrey auction. The Vickrey auction allows a content provider to adjust their bidding strategy after each round. One skilled in the art will appreciate that other methods may be used such as second price field bid auctions. Alternatively or additionally static trading may be used in that preset snap in fills a preset vacancy. That is the vacancy may indicate that only predetermined snap ins e.g. content from company X may be used to fill the vacancy. In a static system service provider server may serve as an auditing server providing statistical information regarding how many times the preset snap in has filled the vacancy.

Regardless of the market mechanism used to locate snap ins and vacancies trading engine executes transactions between snap in providers and vacancy providers step . For example trading engine may execute transactions using software agents to determine which among the eligible Strap ins will be placed in he vacancy in real lime. A software agent may be programmed to increase the price per impression up to a predetermined amount. Thus if the initial bid e.g. 5 cents is a failed transaction the software agent may be programmed to increase the price per impression e.g. 15 cents . One skilled in the art will appreciate that the software agents may work with other parameters such as number of units geographic location or attributes such as size of a region or audio length of the region. One skilled in the art will appreciate that other methods may be used to create winning strategies such as neural network based agents or rule based induction learning.

Once a transaction has been executed trading engine notifies snap in provider secondary content provider as well as vacancy provider primary content provider of the transaction details step . Trading engine may also notify the respective agents of the providers. For example trading engine may notify an agent to increase the bid in a next transaction. Both vacancy providers and snap in providers may indicate maximum bid level. One skilled in the art will appreciate that trading engine may also directly notify the providers of the failed transaction. In this case the provider may determine how to handle future transactions.

Once a snap in has been selected for the vacancy trading engine transmits snap in information and vacancy information to host software step which in turn notifies the adapter software which in turn merges the content. For example the notification may include a URL link to the digital content or the actual digital content. The URL link may also include additional tracking information. That is the URL link may contain parameters used by the snap in provider web site to information service provider server . Each time the consumer visits different snap in provider web pages the URL link may be used to transmit information to service provider server so that service provider server obtains a complete record of the consumer s activity at the snap in provider web site. Thus when a consumer clicks on the digital content in the vacancy and is connected to the snap in providers web site service provider server may still track the consumer activity.

Alternatively trading engine may simply provide host server with the actual digital content. For example if the snap in provider included with the snap in a GIF image e.g. a banner advertisement instead of a URL link the GIF image is forwarded to host server for display. Also at this point trading engine may log the completed transaction and debit or credit the snap in provider and host and appropriate amount.

A primary digital content provider may use a vacancy editor software to graphically define vacancy in container . The provider also defines the vacancy s properties such as the availability of units of 10 000 impressions for sale in December only at a price of 4 cents per impression keywords typed by a consumer in real time such as teenager. The provider then uses the host software to submit vacancy to broker trading server . When consumer traffic increases at primary content distribution server the host software notifies broker trading server of the increased traffic and to update the dynamic properties of vacancy .

A secondary digital content provider may use a snap in editor software such as a web wizard to designate specific snap ins to be delivered to specific consumer profiles. The snap in may be a banner advertisement a virtual storefront or any other digital content. The digital content provider may also use the appropriate software to indicate a preference for teenage consumers during peak web traffic for a snap in . Each time a consumer requests a container with vacancy the host software notifies broker trading server which initiates a suitable trade. Broker Trading server matches snap in with vacancy described above and then transmits the snap in to primary content distribution server . The adapter software then merges the content with the vacancy . Primary content distribution server transmits container with snap in in place of vacancy .

The primary content provider immediately receives revenue form secondary digital content providers who have created the snap in .

The operation of system is substantially the same as that described above except for the adapter software which is specialized to this distribution method and the output device for receiving digital content which in this example is a mobile device. A similar configuration may be used to provide digital content in a manner consistent with the present invention to other output devices like televisions and radios.

As explained systems consistent with the present invention overcome the shortcoming of existing systems by providing a virtual marketplace that matches a unit of secondary digital content snap in with a defined vacancy within primary content such as a web site.

Although aspects oft he present invention are described as being stored in memory one skilled in the art will appreciate that these aspects may be stored on or read from other computer readable media such as secondary storage devices like hard disks floppy disks and CD ROM a carrier wave received from a network like the Internet or other forms of ROM or RAM. Additionally although specific components and programs of consumer computer and various servers have been described one skilled in the art will appreciate that these may contain additional or different components or programs.

The foregoing description of an implementation of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not exhaustive and does not limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching or may be acquired from practicing the invention. For example vacancies and objects may be represented as objects including methods and functions. Moreover the described implementation includes software but the present invention may be implemented as a combination of hardware and software or in hardware alone. The invention may be implemented with both object oriented and non object oriented programming systems.

