---

title: Bayer-consistent raw scaling
abstract: A system and method for scaling an image includes receiving raw image data comprising input pixel values which correspond to pixels of an image sensor; and filtering pixels according to a Bayer-consistent ruleset by a first scaling factor in a first direction and a second scaling factor in a second direction perpendicular to the first direction, wherein the first scaling factor is different from the second scaling factor. The system and method may also include outputting scaled image data as output pixel values, which correspond to subgroups of the input pixel values. The Bayer-consistent ruleset includes a set of filter weights and a series of scaling rules. The Bayer-consistent ruleset results in a scaled image having a high degree of Bayer-consistency.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09514514&OS=09514514&RS=09514514
owner: Sony Corporation
number: 09514514
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20151005
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 496 865 filed with the United States Patent Trademark Office on Sep. 25 2014. The entirety of the previous application is herein incorporated by reference.

This application relates generally to digital image scaling. More specifically this application relates to a raw domain image scaling system and method that maintains Bayer consistency.

In a digital image capturing system it is common that the resolution requirement for still image capture is higher than that of video output. In such a case a high resolution camera capable of supporting the resolution requirement of still image capture is often used. When the camera is used in video mode to produce a video output stream the data is scaled down to suit the resolution of the video output. For example a particular image sensor with 18 million pixels megapixels or MP can give 18 MP still images. For the same image sensor in video mode a resolution of 1080 1920 pixels or approximately 2 MP may suffice to produce 1080p high definition HD video. Therefore in 1080p video mode the image data is scaled down 3 both vertically and horizontally to provide the desired output resolution.

In addition to scale changes with the same horizontal and vertical scaling factor there exist applications where scaling by different scaling factors in the horizontal and vertical directions is required. For example if an image sensor uses rectangular pixels and there is a need to send out images from the sensor targeted to be displayed on devices with square pixels then it is necessary to re sample the image. Such a re sampling requires scaling the image using different scaling factors in the horizontal and vertical directions. Generally when the aspect ratio of the image capture device is different from the aspect ratio of the display device or when the pixel geometry of the image capture device is different form the pixel geometry of the display device it is necessarily to scale the image in this manner.

This scaling may be performed either in the raw domain or the RGB domain. An advantage of scaling the image data in the raw domain to the desired video resolution is that it reduces the number of pixels that must be processed through the system. As a result a majority of processing blocks in an image pipeline or post processing section can be operated at a lower clock rate than the clock rate required to support full resolution processing. Operating the processing section at a lower clock rate has significant advantages in reducing electromagnetic interference and reducing power consumption of the system. These advantages are especially valuable in such applications as mobile imaging.

However existing methods of scaling in the raw domain suffer from several disadvantages including difficulty in maintaining a Bayer output pattern without resorting to increasingly complex expensive and resource intensive logic circuitry. Additionally such existing scaling methods suffer from inferior image quality when compared to scaling in the RGB domain.

Accordingly there is a need for raw image scaling with different scaling factors in the horizontal and vertical directions that can efficiently produce output images of high image quality that is with good resolution which are free of the image artifacts produced by existing raw image scaling.

Various aspects of the present disclosure relate to a system and method for scaling an image. The scaling includes receiving raw image data comprising a plurality of input pixel values respective ones of the input pixel values corresponding to a respective pixel of an image sensor filtering respective ones of the plurality of pixels according to a Bayer consistent ruleset and outputting scaled image data comprising a plurality of output pixel values respective ones of the output pixel values corresponding to a subgroup of the plurality of input pixel values.

In one example Bayer consistent ruleset includes a plurality of filter weights a first rule that a respective output pixel value corresponds to a first color and the corresponding subgroup of the plurality of input pixel values also corresponds to the first color a second rule that the plurality of input pixel values corresponds to a plurality of input sub tiles and the filter weights for the first color are concentrated within an input sub tile of the same color and a third rule that a center of gravity of the filter weights for the first color coincides with the geometric pixel center of the output pixel of the first color. The Bayer consistent ruleset results in a scaled image having a high degree of Bayer consistency.

In this manner various aspects of the present disclosure provide for improvements in at least the underlying technical processes of image capturing and image processing.

This disclosure can be embodied in various forms including business processes computer implemented methods computer program products computer systems and networks user interfaces application programming interfaces hardware implemented methods signal processing circuits image sensor circuits application specific integrated circuits field programmable gate arrays and the like. The foregoing summary is intended solely to give a general idea of various aspects of the present disclosure and does not limit the scope of the disclosure in any way.

In the following description numerous details are set forth such as flowcharts data tables and system configurations. It will be readily apparent to one skilled in the art that these specific details are merely exemplary and not intended to limit the scope of this application.

In all three of image pipeline includes a raw domain processing section for example a raw domain processing circuit which comprises a series of raw domain processing blocks P . . . Pn. These raw domain processing blocks process raw image data also called raw pixel data in the same format as they are captured from the image sensor. Additionally image pipeline includes a demosaic section for example a demosaic circuit which converts raw image data into full color image data that is data wherein each pixel includes all RGB values. Furthermore image pipeline includes an RGB domain processing section for example an RGB domain processing circuit which comprises a series of RGB domain processing blocks Q . . . Qk. Examples of processing blocks or circuits in image pipeline include lens artifact correction bad pixel correction color correction noise filtering sharpening and the like.

In RGB domain processing section includes an RGB scaling section for example a scaling circuit . In raw domain processing section includes a raw scaling section . In image sensor includes scaling section . While the three exemplary views show only a single RGB or raw scaling section exemplary image capturing systems may have the capability of supporting both raw domain image scaling and RGB domain image scaling. In such case both a raw scaling section and an RGB scaling section would be present in the same image capturing system. Such an arrangement would provide the user or system designer with the capability of selecting either raw scaling RGB scaling or both to suit specific operating conditions as desired.

The raw scaling techniques described herein improve the functioning of the image sensor and or the image pipeline by allowing it to produce output images of high quality with fewer artifacts.

Image pipeline may be implemented either in hardware software or a mixture of both. Examples of hardware implementations include application specific integrated circuit ASIC field programming logic array FPGA other programmable logic circuits discrete circuit elements and the like. Examples of software implementations include firmware in an embedded chip software in digital signal processors DSP software in a simulator software in a graphics processing unit GPU software in a general purpose central processing unit CPU and the like. A mixture of hardware and software may also be used wherein some blocks in image pipeline are implemented in hardware with the remaining blocks implemented in software. In one example one or more of image sensor and image pipeline or subunits thereof are implemented as a processing unit and a memory.

In image sensor includes a pixel array including a plurality of pixels arranged in rows and columns. Individual pixels include pixel elements such as a photosensitive element for example a photodiode and associated control circuits for example transistors . The pixel array is connected to a readout circuit so that analog data values from pixels may be sent to a bank of analog to digital converters ADCs which convert the pixel data values into digital form. Pixel array readout circuit and ADCs are controlled by a sequencer and timing control circuit which controls the ordering of pixel reading operations and the timing of the circuit elements in pixel array . ADCs may include single slope ADCs cyclic ADCs successive approximation ADCs sigma delta ADCs also known as delta sigma ADCs and the like.

In ADCs are sigma delta ADCs. A sigma delta ADC requires oversampling and gives out a sequence of D bit samples where D is typically a low number such as 1. In order to generate multi bit output digital values for example V bit samples where V D a decimation filter is required which removes high frequency content in the D bit sample sequence. Specifically as illustrated in sigma delta ADC is operatively connected to an ADC filter block ADCF to operate as a decimation filter. As will be discussed in more detail below the raw domain image scaling calculations can be implemented with ADCF as a single digital filter which leads to a very efficient implementation that has several advantages.

In ADCF is illustrated as being downstream from the ADC . In this manner raw scaling in the digital domain may be performed. Alternatively or additionally filters may be placed upstream from ADC so as to perform raw scaling in the analog domain. In implementations where filters are placed both upstream and downstream from ADC greater scaling flexibility may be achieved. For example one can choose to filter either in the analog or digital domain or may filter particular pixels for example filtering in the horizontal direction in the analog domain and other pixels for example filtering in the vertical direction in the digital domain.

To provide for color images a color filter array CFA is provided with image sensor so that each pixel gives a data value corresponding to a single primary color. illustrates a so called Bayer CFA for use with image sensor . In this example R represents the pixels coated or provided with optical red filters which therefore give only red pixel values. Similarly B represents the pixels coated or provided with optical blue filters which therefore give only blue pixel values. Both G and G represent pixels coated or provided with green optical filters which therefore give only green pixel values. Because the green pixels sharing a row with red pixels and the green pixels sharing a row with blue pixels may have different pixel characteristics due to cross talk and other reasons they are labeled with the different notations G and G respectively. While the Bayer CFA illustrated in uses an RGB layout the CFA is not particularly limited in this regard. For example other color arrangements are possible such as red green blue white RGBW cyan magenta yellow CMY cyan magenta yellow green CMYG and the like.

In RGB Bayer CFA comprises a tiled or repeating arrangement of 2 2 blocks of pixels comprising an R pixel in the upper left corner thereof a G pixel in the upper right corner thereof a G pixel in the lower left corner thereof and a B pixel in the lower right corner thereof. One of ordinary skill in the art will readily recognize that other orderings are possible such as B G G R G R B G G B R G and the like as well as other primary or complementary color combinations such as C M Y Y or combinations of color and white such as R G B W.

In practical imaging system implementations the raw domain scaling method can be implemented either in hardware or software or a mixture of both. For software implementations the calculations in the scaling method can be implemented using embedded processors digital signal processors general purpose processors software simulation units and the like. For hardware implementations the calculations in the scaling method can be implemented using digital means or analog means. Digital implementation in hardware uses digital logic elements such as gates latches arithmetic units and the like. The logic elements can be included into an ASIC an FPGA discrete elements or other programmable circuits. Analog implementation in hardware can include capacitive or resistive circuit elements such as summing junctions voltage or current dividers operational amplifiers and the like.

The raw scaling method can be considered a filtering process followed by decimation. Scaling occurs according to a scaling factor 1 N where a Bayer input region of 2N 2N is processed to produce a 2 2 Bayer output region.

In raw input pixels in each tile of size 4 4 are processed by four filters to give a 2 2 block in the output raw image. In the particularly illustrated filtering procedure the pixel values of each red pixel are considered to be in a red pixel array R defined as r r r r. Red pixel array R is operated on by a red filter coefficient array H defined as h h h h to provide an output red pixel R . Specifically each element of red pixel array R is multiplied by the corresponding element of red filter coefficient array H. That is the coefficients in the red filter array are weights to be applied to the corresponding pixel values in the red pixel array. The products are then added together and divided by the sum of all elements of red filter coefficient array H to produce the output red pixel R . Mathematically this is represented by the following expression 1 

Similarly the pixel values of each green pixel in red rows are considered to be in a first green pixel array G defined as g g g g and are operated on by a first green filter coefficient array I defined as i i i i to output first green pixel G the pixel values of each green pixel in blue rows are considered to be in a second green pixel array G defined as g g g g and are operated on by a second green filter coefficient array J defined as j j j j to output second green pixel G and the pixel values of each blue pixel are considered to be in a blue pixel array B defined as b b b b and are operated on by a blue filter coefficient array K defined as k k k k to output blue pixel B . These operations are represented by the following expressions 2 4 

The above filtering representation is not limited to scaling by the same scaling factor in both the horizontal and vertical directions and may be extended to scaling by 1 M in the vertical direction and 1 N in the horizontal direction. For example illustrates a general example of a scaling method with a vertical scaling factor of and a horizontal scaling factor of .

In a block of 4 6 that is 4 rows by 6 columns of raw pixels is processed by four filters to give a 2 2 block of output raw pixels. In this illustration the pixel values of each red pixel are considered to be in a red pixel array R defined as r r r r r r where rrepresents the pixel in row i column j of the block. Red pixel array R is operated on by a red filter coefficient array H defined as h h h h h h to provide an output red pixel R . Specifically each element of red pixel array R is multiplied by the corresponding element of red filter coefficient array H. Thus the coefficients in the red filter array are weights to be applied to the corresponding pixel values in the red pixel array. The products are then added together and divided by the sum of all elements of red filter coefficient array H to produce the output red pixel R . Mathematically this is represented by the following expression 1 

Similarly the pixel values of each green pixel in red rows are considered to be in a first green pixel array G defined as g g g g g g and are operated on by a first green filter coefficient array I defined as i i i i i i to output first green pixel G the pixel values of each green pixel in blue rows are considered to be in a second green pixel array G defined as g g g g g g and are operated on by a second green filter coefficient array J defined as j j j j j j to output second green pixel G and the pixel values of each blue pixel are considered to be in a blue pixel array B defined as b b b b b b and are operated on by a blue filter coefficient array K defined as k k k k k k to output blue pixel B . These operations are represented by the following expressions 2 4 

The filtering representation described above can be generalized to other scaling factors 1 N for any integer N and may be generalized even further to any combination of vertical scaling factor 1 M and horizontal scaling factor 1 N for integer M and N. For a scaling factor 1 N in both directions an input region of size 2N 2N is used. In this manner to produce an output pixel of a particular color only input pixels of the same color are considered as an input to the filter. As a result each filter array includes only Ncoefficients. Alternatively it is possible to calculate a particular color output pixel value using the pixels of other colors. In that case the number of filter coefficients used for a scaling factor 1 N will have more than Nterms. Additionally the regions of support of the filters for a scaling factor 1 N can be expanded beyond the 2N 2N region and in such a case the number of filter coefficients used for a scaling factor 1 N will also have more than Nterms.

For the case of a scaling factor 1 M and horizontal scaling factor 1 N an input region of size 2M 2N is used. Thus similar to above to produce an output pixel of a particular color only input pixels of the same color are considered as an input to the filter. As a result each filter array here includes only M N coefficients. As above it is possible to calculate a particular color output pixel value using the pixels of other colors. In such a case the number of filter coefficients will have more than M N terms. Additionally the regions of support of the filters for a scaling factor 1 N can be expanded beyond the 2M 2N region and in such a case the number of filter coefficients will again have more than M N terms.

Conceptually a pixel skipping method at a scaling factor 1 N is one that tiles an original image with 2N 2N cells and for each cell retains only the four pixels in a 2 2 configuration in the upper left corner of each cell. All other pixels in the cell are discarded or skipped.

Using the above filtering representation raw pixel scaling at in both directions using the pixel skipping method may be represented by the filters H 1 0 0 0 I 1 0 0 0 J 1 0 0 0 and K 1 0 0 0. Similarly for raw pixel scaling at in the vertical direction and in the horizontal direction the scaling operation may be represented by the filters H 1 0 0 0 0 0 I 1 0 0 0 0 0 J 1 0 0 0 0 0 and K 1 0 0 0 0 0. For convenience of notation in the filter coefficient arrays only the coefficients corresponding to pixels of the same color are written.

The pixel skipping method may lead to a loss of information because many pixels are simply ignored. That is for a scaling factor of 1 N in both directions only one out of every Npixels are retained and the rest are discarded similarly for a scaling factor of 1 M in the vertical direction and 1 N in the horizontal direction only one out of every M N pixels are retained and the rest are discarded.

Conceptually a binning method at a scaling factor 1 N is one that tiles an input raw image with 2N 2N cells and for each cell calculates the arithmetic averages of each color as the respective pixel values in a 2 2 cell of the output raw image. For purposes of this calculation G and G are treated as different colors even though they both correspond to the color green and the averages for G and G are calculated independently.

Again using the above filtering representation raw pixel scaling at in both directions using the binning method may be represented by the filters H I J and K . Similarly for raw pixel scaling at in the vertical direction and in the horizontal direction the scaling operation may be represented by the filters H I J and K . Again for convenience of notation only the coefficients corresponding to pixels of the same color are written.

In contrast to pixel skipping binning represents an opposite approach where all the N or M N pixels are retained with equal weights in the output image. This may lead to a loss of resolution create aliasing artifacts result in uneven phase in pixels of different colors and the like.

Pixel skipping and binning methods typically produce output images of sub optimal quality for example having image artifacts requiring expensive correction circuits and the like. As a result there is a need for a raw domain image scaling method which maintains Bayer consistency.

A raw domain image scaling method that maintains Bayer consistency is called Bayer consistent raw scaling BCRS . An example of BCRS with a scaling factor of that is N 3 is illustrated in . In this case the input raw image is divided into tiles of size 6 6 and from each 6 6 input tile the scaling method calculates a 2 2 block of the output image. As illustrated each 6 6 input tile is divided into four 3 3 sub tiles that respectively represent the physical area of virtual pixel in a block of a virtual image sensor having a lower resolution equal to the scaled resolution. That is the virtual image sensor would have the resolution both vertically and horizontally compared to the actual image sensor used for capturing the raw image data.

Sub tiles are identified by the color of the corresponding virtual pixel under the assumption that the virtual image sensor uses the same Bayer CFA as the actual image sensor. For example sub tile is identified as an R sub tile because it corresponds to virtual pixel which is positioned where the R filter would be in a Bayer CFA on the virtual image sensor. Similarly sub tile is identified as a G sub tile sub tile as a G sub tile and as a B sub tile.

A similar example of BCRS with a scaling factor of is illustrated in . That is the input raw image is divided into tiles of 8 8 and from each 8 8 input tile the scaling method calculates a 2 2 output block. Here each 8 8 tile is divided into four 4 4 sub tiles that respectively represent the physical area of a virtual pixel in a block of a virtual image sensor having a resolution equal to the resolution both vertically and horizontally compared to the actual image sensor.

An extension of BCRS to scaling by different scaling factors in different directions is illustrated in . Specifically illustrates a scaling by in the vertical direction and in the horizontal direction. Here the input raw image is divided into tiles of 6 8 and from each 6 8 input tile the scaling method calculates a 2 2 output block. In this method each 6 8 tile is divided into four 3 4 sub tiles that respectively represent the physical area of a virtual pixel in a block of a virtual image sensor having a resolution equal to the resolution vertically and the resolution horizontally compared to the actual image sensor.

In each of the geometric pixel centers of the virtual pixels and are indicated by dashed lines. The corresponding physical locations are indicated by arrows in input tiles and these are collocated with the centers of the sub tiles and .

In light of the above requirements BCRS is performed so as to satisfy the following conditions 1 only input pixels of the same color as the output are used in the calculation of the output pixel value 2 the filter weights are concentrated within the sub tile of the same color and 3 the center of gravity of the filter weights for each color coincides with the geometric pixel center of the output pixel of the same color. Taken together these Bayer consistency conditions form a Bayer consistency ruleset which provide for improved scaling quality.

To measure the degree of Bayer consistency a criterion called a Bayer consistency coefficient C may be defined which includes two components corresponding to conditions 2 and 3 above. The first component measures the concentration of filter weights within the sub tile of the same color and is defined according to the following expressions 5 and 6 

For a filter of color c where the weights are completely concentrated within the c sub tile that is with non zero weights only inside the c sub tile achieves a maximum value of 1. Accordingly each has a possible range of values between 0 and 1 and hence is also between 0 and 1.

The second component measures the deviation of the center of gravities of the filter weights from the geometric pixel centers of the output image that is geometric pixel centers of a lower resolution virtual grid. It is defined for scaling by 1 N in both directions according to the following expressions 7 and 8 

Above is the length of the input pixel dand dare the horizontal and vertical distances respectively between the center of gravity of the filter coefficients for the color c and the geometric pixel center of the c color pixel in the corresponding virtual grid and N is the integer in the scaling factor 1 N . For a filter where the center of gravities of the filter coefficient in all four colors coincide with the geometric pixel center of the output pixel of respective colors D 0 for all c and achieves a maximum value of 1. Hence is between 0 and 1.

The calculations of Din expression 8 above assume that the pixels have a square shape that is both the width and height of the pixels are equal to . In the case of rectangular pixels the calculations can be performed by first normalizing dand dby the width and height respectively of the pixel and then calculating Das the root mean square of the normalized values. In other words for scaling by 1 M in the vertical direction and 1 N in the horizontal direction expression 8 becomes the following expression 8 

To consider the overall effect of both and Bayer consistency coefficient C is defined according to the following expression 9 1 9 

The parameter has a value between 0 and 1 and is used as a weight for the two components and . Therefore as is readily apparent C has a possible range of values between 0 and 1. For performance evaluation 0.5 may be used. The performance evaluation parameter has a value between 0 and 1 and is used as a weight for the two components and . In the above expression a high indicates a high degree of image sharpness whereas a high indicates an image free from jagged edges. A value of 0.5 is chosen for a balance between image sharpness and an image free of jagged edges. Using this definition raw scaling filters with higher values of C are preferred. In other words filters which exhibit a higher degree of Bayer consistency lead to higher image quality for example having C 0.65. More preferably C 0.8. Most preferably C 0.9.

For comparison consider the pixel skipping and binning scaling methods described above. For pixel skipping at a scaling factor of in both directions the values of are 1 0 0 0 for the colors R G G and B respectively. Therefore 0.25. Additionally it can be calculated that the horizontal distance dequals 0.5 1.5 0.5 and 1.5 for R G G and B respectively whereas the vertical distance dequals 0.5 0.5 1.5 and 1.5 for R G G and B respectively. Accordingly 0.2512. Using 0.5 for evaluation the Bayer consistency coefficient C for pixel skipping is 0.2506 for a scaling factor of in both directions. By similar calculations the Bayer consistency coefficient C for pixel skipping equals 0.1258 for in both directions and 0.1250 for in both directions.

For binning at a scaling factor of in both directions is that is 0.25 for each color c and therefore 0.25. Both the horizontal distance dand the vertical distance dequal 0.54 for any color c and therefore 0.6464. Again using 0.5 for evaluation the Bayer consistency coefficient C for binning is 0.4482 for a scaling factor of in both directions. By similar calculations the Bayer consistency coefficient C for binning equals 0.4865 for in both directions and 0.3598 for in both directions.

On the other hand a BCRS filter configured to satisfy the three Bayer consistency conditions defined above provides a high Bayer consistency coefficient value and good image quality. provides an example of such a filter for a scaling factor of in both directions. For the particular filter illustrated in is for any c. provides an example of such a filter for a scaling factor of in the vertical direction and in the horizontal direction such that is for any c. Therefore in both illustrations is 1 for any color c. Additionally D 0 for any color c. As a result C achieves its highest possible value of 1. An extension to general scaling factors 1 N in both directions for any integer N which achieves the maximum value of C 1 is straightforward as is an extension to scaling by 1 M in the vertical direction and 1 N in the horizontal direction for any integers M and N.

Pure BCRS can potentially produce some false colors in the high frequency areas of the output images which can be observed from processing images of resolution charts. This is due to the maintenance of very high resolution in the scaled output images. To make further improvements the filter coefficients may be optimized. The optimization procedure for each color c involves allowing some coefficients outside of the c sub tile to take on a non zero value which is substantially smaller than the coefficient values inside the c sub tile and in the process evaluating the resulting Bayer consistency coefficient C and false coloring in the output image. While this optimization procedure implies that condition 2 described above no longer holds in a strict sense the overall Bayer consistency coefficient C is still evaluated in the optimization to ensure a high C value so that a majority of the weights of the filter remains inside the sub tile of the same color.

The above values hold for any color c and therefore 0.8527. Evaluating at 0.5 these components lead to a Bayer consistency coefficient of 0.9051 which is both close to the maximum possible value of 1 and much higher than the corresponding values for pixel skipping 0.1258 and binning 0.4865 for a scaling factor in both directions.

The above values hold for any color c and therefore 0.8602. Evaluating at 0.5 these components lead to a Bayer consistency coefficient of 0.9035. It can be readily shown using a similar calculation that this Bayer consistency coefficient is much higher than corresponding values for the methods of pixel skipping and binning for the same horizontal and vertical scaling factors discussed above.

BCRS is especially effective because the Bayer consistency conditions require that the structural information for example edges of the captured images be localized and kept at the correct locations in the scaled image. This is illustrated by for scaling by in both directions and by for scaling by in the vertical direction and in the horizontal direction. Specifically respectively show an edge or in the scene appearing in the lower right portion of the pixel area. If an image including edge or were to be scaled down by the binning method the effect of the edge would affect all four output pixels because pixels within the edge area are used in calculating the output raw pixels of all colors. In this case the output R G and G pixels even though located outside of the area containing edge or are affected by the presence of edge or . This means that the edge or is spread out into the entire 2 2 output area which corresponds to the entire 6 6 or 6 8 input area. On the other hand by using BCRS for example using the filters of respectively only the R pixels in the R sub tile are used in the calculation of the output R pixel value. Therefore the output R value is not affected by the presence of edge or . Similarly the output G and G values are not affected by edge or . That is because edge or is confined to the B sub tile only the output B value is affected by edge or . In this manner BCRS preserves the structure of the image more accurately and produces output images of high resolution and quality.

Although in optimized BCRS for example using the filters of pixels outside of the c sub tile are used in the calculation of the output c colored pixel the structural limitation is similarly preserved because the filter weights of the pixels outside of the same color sub tile are comparatively low.

Optimized BCRS filters may also be used to scale at scaling factors other than for example any 1 N for integer N. For example illustrates an exemplary optimized BCRS red filter coefficient array for scaling factor whereas illustrates an exemplary optimized BCRS red filter coefficient array for scaling factor . Using the above expressions at 0.5 the BCRS filter arrays of give a Bayer consistency coefficient C of 0.8279 and 0.8166 respectively. These are much higher than the Bayer consistency coefficients C for both pixel skipping and binning as described above.

With regard to the processes systems methods heuristics etc. described herein it should be understood that although the steps of such processes etc. have been described as occurring according to a certain ordered sequence such processes could be practiced with the described steps performed in an order other than the order described herein. It further should be understood that certain steps could be performed simultaneously that other steps could be added or that certain steps described herein could be omitted. In other words the descriptions of processes herein are provided for the purpose of illustrating certain embodiments and should in no way be construed so as to limit the claims.

Accordingly it is to be understood that the above description is intended to be illustrative and not restrictive. Many embodiments and applications other than the examples provided would be apparent upon reading the above description. The scope should be determined not with reference to the above description but should instead be determined with reference to the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. It is anticipated and intended that future developments will occur in the technologies discussed herein and that the disclosed systems and methods will be incorporated into such future embodiments. In sum it should be understood that the application is capable of modification and variation.

All terms used in the claims are intended to be given their broadest reasonable constructions and their ordinary meanings as understood by those knowledgeable in the technologies described herein unless an explicit indication to the contrary in made herein. In particular use of the singular articles such as a the said etc. should be read to recite one or more of the indicated elements unless a claim recites an explicit limitation to the contrary.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in various embodiments for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separately claimed subject matter.

