---

title: Spatial mapping for a visual prosthesis
abstract: A visual prosthesis and a method of operating a visual prosthesis are disclosed. Neural stimulation through electrodes is controlled by spatial maps, where a grouped or random association is established between the data points of the acquired data and the electrodes. In this way distortions from the foveal pit and wiring mistakes in the implant can be corrected. Moreover, broken electrodes can be bypassed and a resolution limit can be tested, together with testing the benefit the patient receives from correct spatial mapping.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09526894&OS=09526894&RS=09526894
owner: Second Sight Medical Products, Inc.
number: 09526894
owner_city: Sylmar
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150706
---
This application is a divisional application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 094 210 filed Apr. 26 2011 for Spatial Mapping for a Visual Prosthesis and issued as U.S. Pat. No. 9 072 900 which is a divisional application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 114 657 filed May 2 2008 and issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 957 811 on Jun. 7 2011 for Spatial Mapping for a Visual Prosthesis which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application 60 928 407 filed on May 8 2007 and U.S. Provisional Application 60 928 440 filed on May 8 2007 the contents of both of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. This application may also be related to U.S. application Ser. No. 12 114 557 filed May 2 2008 for Method And System For Providing Stimulation Inputs To A Visual Prosthesis Implant and issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 239 035 the contents of which are also incorporated by reference in their entirety.

This invention was made with government support under grant No. R24EY12893 01 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present disclosure relates to operation of visual prostheses implants. More in particular it relates to a spatial mapping for a visual prosthesis.

According to a first aspect a method of mapping relationship of pixels of an acquired image to electrodes of a visual prosthesis implant adapted to be positioned on the retina of a subject is provided the method comprising associating a plurality of pixels of the acquired image to form a group of pixels associating a plurality of electrodes to form a group of electrodes and mapping the group of pixels to the group of electrodes.

According to a second aspect a visual prosthesis is provided comprising an implanted portion having a radiofrequency receiver and an array of electrodes suitable for stimulating visual neurons and an external portion having a video processing unit and including a spatial redirection map wherein the spatial redirection map establishes a relationship between an image acquired by the visual prosthesis and the array of electrodes the relationship providing an association between an average pixel value of a plurality of pixels and a subset of the array of electrodes.

According to a third aspect a method of mapping relationship of pixels of an acquired image to electrodes of a visual prosthesis implant adapted to be positioned on the retina of a subject is provided the method comprising dividing the acquired image in a plurality of areas positioning the electrodes on the retina in a way that a one to one spatial relationship between each area and each electrode is implicitly established and mapping each area to each pixel in a random one to one spatial relationship different from the implicitly established one to one spatial relationship.

According to a fourth aspect a visual prosthesis is provided comprising an implanted portion having a radiofrequency receiver and an array of electrodes suitable for stimulating visual neurons and an external portion having a video processing unit and including a spatial redirection map wherein the spatial redirection map establishes a relationship between an image acquired by the visual prosthesis and the array of electrodes the relationship providing a random association between each pixel value and each electrode of the array of electrodes.

Further embodiments of the present disclosure can be found in the written specification drawings and claims of the present application.

Therefore the present disclosure provides a flexible and arbitrary mapping between the input video image and the stimulation electrodes to correct distortions from the foveal pit correct wiring mistakes in the implant bypass broken electrodes using current summation to enable non sensitive electrodes test the resolution limit of the implant test the benefit the patient receives from correct spatial mapping and to solve orientation problems of the array on the retina.

A Retinal Stimulation System disclosed in U.S. application Ser. No. 11 207 644 filed Aug. 19 2005 for Flexible Circuit Electrode Array by Robert J. Greenberg et al. incorporated herein by reference is intended for use in subjects with retinitis pigmentosa. and show a Retinal Stimulation System wherein a patient subject is implanted with a visual prosthesis. Reference can also be made to FIGS. 1 5 of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 796 425 filed Apr. 27 2007 for Visual Prosthesis Fitting and issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 271 091 also incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The Retinal Stimulation System is an implantable electronic device containing electrode array that is electrically coupled by a cable that pierces sclera of the subject s eye and is electrically coupled to an electronics package external to the sclera. The Retinal Stimulation System is designed to elicit visual percepts in blind subjects with retinitis pigmentosa.

Referring to a Fitting System FS may be used to configure and optimize the visual prosthesis of the Retinal Stimulation System .

The Fitting System may comprise custom software with a graphical user interface GUI running on a dedicated laptop computer . Within the Fitting System are modules for performing diagnostic checks of the implant loading and executing video configuration files viewing electrode voltage waveforms and aiding in conducting psychophysical experiments. A video module can be used to download a video configuration file to a Video Processing Unit VPU and store it in non volatile memory to control various aspects of video configuration e.g. the spatial relationship between the video input and the electrodes which is one of the main aspects of the present disclosure. The software can also load a previously used video configuration file from the VPU for adjustment.

The Fitting System can be connected to the Psychophysical Test System PTS located for example on a dedicated laptop in order to run psychophysical experiments. In psychophysics mode the Fitting System enables individual electrode control permitting clinicians to construct test stimuli with control over current amplitude pulse width and frequency of the stimulation. In addition the psychophysics module allows the clinician to record subject responses. The PTS may include a collection of standard psychophysics experiments developed using for example MATLAB MathWorks software and other tools to allow the clinicians to develop customized psychophysics experiment scripts.

Any time stimulation is sent to the VPU the stimulation parameters are checked to ensure that maximum charge per phase limits charge balance and power limitations are met before the test stimuli are sent to the VPU to make certain that stimulation is safe.

Using the psychophysics module important perceptual parameters such as perceptual threshold maximum comfort level and spatial location of percepts may be reliably measured.

Based on these perceptual parameters the fitting software enables custom configuration of the transformation between video image and spatio temporal electrode stimulation parameters in an effort to optimize the effectiveness of the retinal prosthesis for each subject.

The Fitting System laptop is connected to the VPU using an optically isolated serial connection adapter . Because it is optically isolated the serial connection adapter assures that no electric leakage current can flow from the Fitting System laptop .

As shown in the following components may be used with the Fitting System according to the present disclosure. A Video Processing Unit VPU for the subject being tested a Charged Battery for VPU Glasses a Fitting System FS Laptop a Psychophysical Test System PTS Laptop a PTS CD not shown a Communication Adapter CA a USB Drive Security not shown a USB Drive Transfer not shown a USB Drive Video Settings not shown a Patient Input Device RF Tablet a further Patient Input Device Jog Dial Glasses Cable CA VPU Cable CFS CA Cable CFS PTS Cable Four Port USB Hub Mouse LED Test Array Archival USB Drive an Isolation Transformer not shown adapter cables not shown and an External Monitor not shown .

The external components of a Fitting System may be configured as follows. The battery is connected with the VPU . The PTS Laptop is connected to FS Laptop using the CFS PTS Cable . The PTS Laptop and FS Laptop are plugged into the Isolation Transformer not shown using the Adapter Cables not shown . The Isolation Transformer is plugged into the wall outlet. The four Port USB Hub is connected to the FS laptop at the USB port. The mouse and the two Patient Input Devices and are connected to four Port USB Hubs . The FS laptop is connected to the Communication Adapter CA using the CFS CA Cable . The CA is connected to the VPU using the CA VPU Cable . The Glasses are connected to the VPU using the Glasses Cable .

In a visual prosthesis every electrode in the implanted array of electrodes produces a spot of light phosphene in the visual field. A transformation needs to be specified to map the stimulation of individual electrodes in the stimulating array to specific locations or regions in the acquired video image. This transformation is specified in a look up table referred to as the spatial map. In other words spatial mapping is the relationship of a pixel or pixels in the camera s view to an electrode on the retina. Due to the optics of the eye the retina is laid out reverse of the real world and proportional. The scale depends on the distance of the object.

As shown in the prior art embodiment of usually a one to one spatial mapping is used. In this mapping the locations of the individual electrodes in the retinal stimulating array are projected into the visual field. The corresponding locations of the input video image pixels are then mapped to the corresponding single electrode in the array. shows a 4 4 prior art electrode array embodiment where pixel is mapped to electrode L pixel is mapped to electrode L pixel is mapped to electrode M pixel is mapped to electrode M and so on so that each pixel corresponds to a single electrode and vice versa. In other words the corresponding locations of the input video image pixels are mapped to the corresponding single electrode in the array.

However in certain cases there is a need to use a different mapping. For example a regular spacing of stimulating electrodes may result in a distorted spatial pattern of phosphenes. Because the ganglion cell axons are stretched away from their foveal cones a regular pattern of stimulating electrodes may result in a pattern of phosphenes that is compressed to the center of the visual field.

In order to address this case applicants have altered the spatial map to undo the perceptual distortion. In particular in cases where the patient cannot resolve the spatial information in the fine resolution of the spacing between electrodes a group of electrodes are associated with a correspondingly large area in the video image. This is useful for cases in which areas in the array don t yield a bright percept up to the maximum allowed current. When neighboring electrodes are stimulated simultaneously due to current summation the percept is brighter. Grouping electrodes create virtually one electrode with a larger area which enable to increase the maximum allowed current. As shown in a plurality of electrodes e.g. four electrodes are mapped to an average of a plurality of pixels where the number of the electrodes in the group corresponds to the number of pixels the average of which is taken. Therefore each electrode of group is mapped to a first average of four pixels each electrode of group is mapped to a second average of four pixels and so on.

A third embodiment can also be provided which is a combination of the first two embodiments. In other words a plurality of electrodes is randomly mapped to an average of a plurality of pixels.

The embodiments of have been shown with reference to a 4 4 electrode arrangement for the sake of simplicity. Current electrode arrangements are in a 6 10 array e.g. electrodes A through F and the 6 10 electrode array represents the best mode of the present disclosure. The person skilled in the art will note that the embodiments of can be easily adapted to a 6 10 electrode array environment.

Therefore in accordance with some of the embodiments of the present disclosure an improved method of operating a visual prosthesis is disclosed. The method uses spatial maps to control neural stimulation for correcting distortions from the foveal pit correcting wiring mistakes in the implant bypassing broken electrodes testing the resolution limit testing the benefit the patient receives from correct spatial mapping and solving orientation problems.

Accordingly what has been shown are methods and systems for providing stimulation inputs to a visual prosthesis implant. While these methods and systems have been described by means of specific embodiments and applications thereof it is understood that numerous modifications and variations could be made thereto by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. It is therefore to be understood that within the scope of the claims the disclosure may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described herein.

