---

title: Systems and methods for fabrication and use of brace designs for braced frames
abstract: Embodiments of the present invention relate to a structural frame member which includes a brace member that is used to absorb energy when the structural frame is subjected to loadings such as seismic, wind and gravity loads. The brace member is coupled to a restraining member that increases the buckling capacity of the brace member so that the brace member has approximately the same load axial capacity in compression as in tension. Embodiments of the invention also relate to the design, construction and assembly of the connection of the brace member that couples the brace member to a gusset plate which is coupled to the beam and column in the structural frame.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09631357&OS=09631357&RS=09631357
owner: ALLEN BRB, LLC
number: 09631357
owner_city: Peoria
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150810
---
This application claims priority to Provisional U.S. Patent Application No. 62 121 123 filed Feb. 26 2015 entitled BUCKLING RESTRAINED BRACE DESIGNS the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes as if fully set forth herein.

The present invention relates to the design of structural braces in braced frame structures that provides for an improvement of the brace load carrying capacity in structural braced frames. Existing braces may be potentially improved by reducing the weight the fabrication costs and time and the strength of thereof. Embodiments of the invention provide solutions to these and other problems.

In one embodiment a structural brace member is provided. The structural brace member may include a tubular element and a core element. The tubular element may have a rectangular cross section. The core element may be disposed within the tubular element and no substantial material may be disposed within the tubular element between the tubular element and the core element.

In another embodiment a method of constructing a structure is provided. The method may include coupling a structural brace member with a first gusset plate. The structural brace member may include a tubular element having a rectangular cross section and a core element disposed within the tubular element where no substantial material may be disposed within the tubular element between the tubular element and the core element. The first gusset plate may be coupled with a column and or beam of the structure. The method may also include coupling the structural brace member with a second gusset plate where the second gusset plate is coupled with another column and or beam of the structure.

The ensuing description provides exemplary embodiments only and is not intended to limit the scope applicability or configuration of the disclosure. Rather the ensuing description of the exemplary embodiments will provide those skilled in the art with an enabling description for implementing one or more exemplary embodiments. It is being understood that various changes may be made in the function and arrangement of elements without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims.

Specific details are given in the following description to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. However it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. For example any detail discussed with regard to one embodiment may or may not be present in every version of that embodiment or in any version of another embodiment discussed herein. In other instances herein well known processes methods techniques devices structures and tools may be used to implement the described embodiments. Additionally any time steel is recited herein one of ordinary skill in the art will understand that other metals or materials may also be used.

Braces are used in braced frames that support lateral and gravity loads in buildings and are typically made of members comprising rolled or cast steel structural steel shapes. Bolted and or welded gusset plates are used to connect the beams columns and braces of the braced frame. Embodiments of the invention reduce the weight costs and fabrication time necessary to provide and install braces in a braced frame over that of conventionally designed structural braces.

Methods of design and construction of the bracing members in braced frames are discussed herein which enhance and provide for high resistance and ductile behavior of the frames when subjected to gravity seismic and wind loading. More specifically embodiments of the present invention relates to the design and construction of lightweight braces and their connections that use gusset plates to join the beams and columns to the lateral load carrying brace members with particular use but not necessarily exclusive use in framed buildings in new construction and in the modification of existing structures.

Embodiments of the present invention relates to how the aforementioned braces are assembled the means by which the braces are restrained from buckling within the confining tube or box like member and how brace loads are transferred to frame gusset plates.

The arrangement of the beams also known as girders columns and braces and their connections are designed to ensure the framework can support the gravity and seismic and wind lateral loads contemplated for the intended use of the bridge building or other structures. Making appropriate engineering assessments of loads and how these loads are resisted represents current design methodology. These assessments are compounded in complexity when considering loads for wind and seismic events which requires determining the forces stresses and strains in the structural members. It is well known that during an earthquake the dynamic horizontal and vertical inertia loads and stresses and strains imposed on a building have the greatest impact on the braces primarily but may also damage the beams and columns which constitute the resistant frame. Under high seismic or wind loading or from repeated exposure to milder loadings of this kind these members may fail possibly resulting in the collapse of the structure and the loss of life.

Turning now to a possible construction of modern structures such as buildings and bridges is shown braced frames include beams columns and braces arranged fastened or joined together using gusset plates to form a skeletal load resisting framework of a structure. The two bracing systems shown in are diagonal and chevron systems.

Both of these designs have the steel core embedded in a rectangular tube with minimum fabrication clearances between the brace components of the steel core and the tube sufficient to allow assembly of the brace. Such fabrication clearances may be between about 0.10 and about 0.25 inches in width. These assembly designs eliminate the need for any restraining material between the steel core and the restraining tube as shown in . The restraining tube which resists only lateral loads generated by the flexural forces of the steel core is designed to have sufficient strength and stiffness to inhibit overall lateral buckling of the tube and steel core when the steel core is subjected to a compressive axial load.

Essentially then no substantial material is present between the core element and the tubular element in embodiments of the invention. While some embodiments may have an occasional fastening mechanism coupling the core element with the tubular element as will be discussed below such fastening mechanisms will occur at singular point locations. No substantial material present between the core element and the tubular element means that a mortar or other significant material is not present along the length of the combined brace element.

Shown to is an isometric drawing of one end of a buckling restrained brace with the brace to gusset end connection including connecting plates. The width and height of the connection of the steel core to the gusset plate is designed to have the maximum width and height of the steel core. This embodiment allows the steel core and connection to be fabricated and assembled independent of the constraining tube or box like structure.

Shown in is an isometric drawing of a central portion of a buckling resistant brace assembly. In this embodiment the steel core is secured to the restraining tube by fastener or plug weld at the midpoint of the assembly. Various weld types could also be used to secure the steel core to the restraining tube in other embodiments. Note that such a fastener e.g. a plug weld etc. is not intended to carry structural loads but rather keep the core element coupled with the tubular element during assembly and coupling operations.

Shown in is a more detailed finite element model of the gusset plate connection assembly . This assembly comprises four connection plates and a tube end plate . The connecting plates are coupled to the steel core and provide the transfer of the axial load in the steel core to the gusset plate.

Shown in is the cross section A A of . This embodiment of the invention uses both fillet welds and bolts to transfer the steel brace load to the connecting plates .

Shown in is the cross section A A of without the bolts. This embodiment of the invention uses shim plates and uses both fillet welds and groove welds to transfer the brace load to the connecting plates .

In are computer generated hysteresis loops for a restrained brace assembly having the embodiments of the invention which demonstrate the maximum and minimum brace forces when the assembly brace is subjected to both axial load and alternate lateral drifts of 2.7 . The maximum axial compressive brace load and the maximum axial tensile load are essentially equal according to an embodiment of this invention.

The invention has now been described in detail for the purposes of clarity and understanding. However it will be appreciated that certain changes and modifications may be practiced within the scope of the appended claims.

