---

title: Method of controlling for transmission power and device therefor
abstract: In various embodiments, a method for controlling device transmission power is disclosed. The method may include performing communication at first transmission power using a first communication module, performing communication at a second transmission power using a second communication module, and/or adjusting a transmission power of the first communication module from the first transmission power to a second transmission power for at least a part of time while performing communication using the second communication module.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09392548&OS=09392548&RS=09392548
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09392548
owner_city: Yeongtong-gu, Suwon-si, Gyeonggi-do
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20150410
---
The priority of Korean patent application No. 10 2014 0043265 filed on Apr. 10 2014 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated in its entirety by reference is claimed.

The present disclosure relates to an electronic device and a method for adjusting transmission power of the electronic device.

With the rapid development of information and communication technology network devices such as base stations have been recently installed all over the country so that electronic devices exchange data with other electronic devices through a network thereby allowing users to access the network anywhere in the country.

However electronic devices radiate electromagnetic energy while transmitting receiving data and a portion of the radiated energy may be absorbed by the human body. Since the energy absorbed by the human body may adversely affect the human body various countries establish criteria of a specific absorption rate SAR to prevent electronic devices of which the SARs are higher than a certain level from being distributed.

In addition as electronic devices have higher performance and a smaller size a plurality of elements are densely mounted within a small housing causing the issue of heating of the electronic devices.

Since the electromagnetic energy radiated from electronic devices may adversely affect the human body as described above attention on this issue is required. Intensity of the radiated electromagnetic energy is related to transmission power of a communication module of the electronic devices.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure are directed to providing an electronic device and a method for adjusting transmission power of a communication module of the electronic device.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure a method performed by an electronic device includes performing communication at a first transmission power using a first communication module performing communication at a second transmission power using a second communication module and adjusting a transmission power of the first communication module from the first transmission power to a second transmission power for at least a part of time while performing communication using the second communication module.

According to another embodiment of the present disclosure an electronic device includes a first communication module configured to perform communication at a first transmission power a second communication module configured to perform communication at a second transmission power and a control module configured to adjust a transmission power of the first communication module from the first transmission power to a second transmission power for at least a part of time while performing communication using the second communication module.

According to another embodiment of the present disclosure an electronic device includes a first communication module configured to perform communication using a Wi Fi network a second communication module configured to perform communication using a cellular network a sensor configured to detect a human body a processor configured to detect whether the electronic device is adjacent to the human body on the basis of a result of detection of the sensor and a control module configured to adjust a transmission power of the first communication module or the second communication module if the electronic device is adjacent to the human body.

Hereinafter various embodiments of the present disclosure will be described with reference to the accompanying drawings to assist a person of ordinary skill in the art with a comprehensive understanding of various embodiments of the present disclosure as defined by the claims and their equivalents. The present disclosure may be variously modified and may include various embodiments. However specific embodiments are exemplarily illustrated in the drawings and detailed descriptions related thereto are provided. However it should be understood that various embodiments of the present disclosure are not limited to specific examples but rather include all modifications equivalents and alternatives that fall within the sprit and scope of various embodiments of the present disclosure. Regarding the drawings like reference numerals typically refer to like elements.

As used herein the terms include including includes characterize or characterized in that may indicate disclosed functions operations or existence of elements but these terms are not intended to exclude other functions operations or elements. It should be further understood that the terms listed above as used herein may specify the presence of stated features numbers operations elements components or combinations thereof but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features numbers operations elements components or combinations thereof.

The meaning of the term or used herein includes any combination of words connected by the term or . For example the expression A or B may indicate A B or both A and B.

The terms such as first second and the like used herein may refer to various elements of various embodiments of the present disclosure but do not limit the elements. For example such terms do not limit the order and or priority of the elements. Furthermore such terms may be used to distinguish one element from another element. For example a first electronic device and a second electronic device indicate different electronic devices. The first and second electronic devices are not limited to two electronic devices owned by a single user and may represent any two different electronic devices regardless of users thereof. Furthermore without departing the scope of the present disclosure a first element may be named as a second element and similarly a second element may be named as a first element.

It will be understood that when an element is referred to as being connected or coupled to another element it can be directly connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly connected or directly coupled to another element it should be understood that there are no intervening elements.

The terminology used herein is not for delimiting the present disclosure but for describing specific various embodiments of the present disclosure. The terms of a singular form may include plural forms unless otherwise specified.

The terms used herein including technical or scientific terms have the same meanings as understood by those skilled in the art unless otherwise defined herein. The commonly used terms such as those defined in a dictionary should be interpreted in the same context as in the related art and should not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless otherwise defined explicitly.

The term module used herein may represent for example a unit including one or more combinations of hardware software and firmware. The term module may be interchangeably used with the terms unit logic logical block component and circuit . The module may be a minimum unit of an integrated component or may be a part thereof. The module may be a minimum unit for performing one or more functions or a part thereof. The module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example the module used herein may include at least one of an application specific integrated circuit ASIC chip a field programmable gate array FPGA or a programmable logic device for performing some operations which are known or will be developed.

Electronic devices according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may have a communication function. For example the electronic devices may include at least one of smartphones smartpads tablet personal computers PCs mobile phones video telephones electronic book readers desktop PCs laptop PCs netbook computers personal digital assistants PDAs portable multimedia players PMPs MP players mobile medical devices cameras or wearable devices e.g. head mounted devices HMDs such as electronic glasses electronic apparel electronic bracelets electronic necklaces electronic accessories or smart watches

According to some various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic devices may be smart home appliances having a communication function. The smart home appliances may include at least one of for example TVs DVD players audios refrigerators air conditioners cleaners ovens microwave ovens washing machines air cleaners set top boxes TV boxes e.g. Samsung HomeSync Apple TV or Google TV game consoles electronic dictionaries electronic keys camcorders or electronic picture frames.

According to some various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic devices may include at least one of medical devices e.g. magnetic resonance angiography MRA magnetic resonance imaging MRI computed tomography CT scanners and ultrasonic devices navigation devices global positioning system GPS receivers event data recorders EDRs flight data recorders FDRs vehicle infotainment devices electronic equipment for ships e.g. navigation systems and gyrocompasses avionics or security devices.

According to some various embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic devices may include at least one of parts of furniture or buildings structures having communication functions electronic boards electronic signature receiving devices projectors or measuring instruments e.g. water meters electricity meters gas meters or wave meters . The electronic devices according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be one or more combinations of the above mentioned devices. The electronic devices described herein and according to various embodiments of the present disclosure are not limited to the above mentioned devices. Hereinafter an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure will be described with reference to the accompanying drawings. The term user used herein may refer to a person who uses an electronic device or may refer to a device e.g. an artificial electronic device that uses the electronic device.

The term active used herein may represent a state in which a certain electronic device an element included in the electronic device or a function performed by the electronic device is operated or performed. For example when an electronic device is referred to as being activated the power of the electronic device may be turned on in some various embodiments of the present disclosure. In other embodiments of the present disclosure when an electronic device is referred to as being activated a locked state of the electronic device may be released. For example when a processor or a designated module e.g. a communication module a modem or the like is referred to as being activated the processor or the designated module may be in a state of being supplied with power the processor or the designated module may be in an enabled state in which the processor or the designated module performs a task or the processor or the designated module may be in an awake state in which the processor or the designated module waits for performing a task.

The term inactive used herein may indicate that a certain electronic device an element included in the electronic device or a function performed by the electronic device is in a state other than the above mentioned active states. For example when an electronic device is referred to as being inactivated the power of the electronic device may be turned off or the electronic device may be in a locked state e.g. a state of being unable to perform a designated function . For example when a processor or a designated module is referred to as being inactivated the processor or the designated module may be in a state of being blocked from a power supply or the processor or the designated module may be in a sleep state in which operation of the processor or the designated module is suspended until a designated control signal e.g. an awake signal is supplied.

Referring now to the electronic device may include a bus a processor a non transitory tangible computer readable medium e.g. a memory such as the memory an input output interface a display or a communication interface .

The bus may be a circuit for connecting the above mentioned elements to each other and enabling communication e.g. control message transfer between the above mentioned elements.

The processor may include hardware circuitry configured for operation and may receive a command or plurality of commands from another element e.g. the memory the input output interface the display or the communication interface through the bus may interpret the received command and may perform an operation or data processing according to the interpreted command. Hardware such as the processor as well as other circuitry described herein may be configured for operation as described herein and as will be appreciated by a person of ordinary skill in the art.

The memory may store one or more command or data received from or generated by the processor or another element e.g. the input output interface the display or the communication interface . The memory may include programming modules such as a kernel middleware an application programming interface API or an application . Each programming module may include software firmware hardware or a combination of at least two thereof.

The kernel may control or manage system resources e.g. the bus the processor or the memory used to perform one or more operations or functions of another programming module for example the middleware the API or the application . Furthermore the kernel may provide an interface for the middleware the API or the application to access individual elements of the electronic device in order to control or manage the elements.

The middleware may serve as an intermediary between the API or application and the kernel so that the API or application communicates and exchanges data with the kernel . Furthermore the middleware may perform load balancing with respect to operation requests received from a plurality of the applications by using e.g. a method of assigning a priority for using system resources e.g. the bus the processor or the memory of the electronic device to at least one of the applications .

The API which may include an interface for the application to control one or more functions provided by the kernel or middleware may include at least one interface or function for for example file control window control image processing or character control.

The application may include in various embodiments an SMS MMS application an electronic mail application a CPU usage information application an alarm application or an environment information application e.g. an application for providing barometric pressure or temperature information . Furthermore in the case where there exists an external electronic device e.g. an electronic device or an electronic device that communicates with the electronic device the application may include an application related to information exchange between the electronic device and the external electronic device. For example the application may include a notification relay application or a device management application for transferring information to the external electronic device or managing the electronic device. The notification relay application may include a function for transferring notification information generated in the electronic device to the external electronic device. For example the notification relay application may include a function for transferring the notification information to the external electronic device through another application e.g. an SMS MMS application an electronic mail application a CPU usage information application an alarm application or an environment information application . Furthermore the notification relay application may receive the notification information from the external electronic device. If there exists the external electronic device that communicates with the electronic device the device management application may manage the external electronic device or a service provided by the external electronic device.

For example the electronic device may transfer to the external device transmission power information of a first communication module or a second communication module of the electronic device . The external electronic device may generate on the basis of the transmission power information received from the electronic device control information for controlling transmission power of the first communication module or the second communication module of the electronic device and may transmit the generated control information to the electronic device . The electronic device may control on the basis of the received control information transmission power of the first communication module or the second communication module through the device management application.

The input output interface may receive a command or data from a user and may transfer the command or data to the processor or the memory through the bus . The display may show an image a video or data to a user.

The communication interface may enable communication between the electronic device and the other electronic device or or a server . The communication interface may support a short range communication protocol e.g. wireless fidelity Wi Fi Bluetooth BT or near field communication NFC network communication e.g. the Internet a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a telecommunication network a cellular network a satellite network or a plain old telephone service POTS or a wired communication protocol e.g. a universal serial bus USB or a high definition multimedia interface HDMI . For example a communication protocol e.g. a short range communication protocol a network communication protocol or a wired communication protocol may be supported by at least one of the API or the middleware . Each of the electronic devices and may be the same e.g. same type as the electronic device or may be different e.g. different type from the electronic device . The communication interface may include the first communication module and the second communication module which are described above.

Referring now to the electronic device may constitute for example a part or the entirety of the electronic device illustrated in . For example an electronic device may include at least one of at least one application processor AP a communication module a subscriber identification module SIM card a memory a sensor module an input device a display an interface an audio module a camera module a power management module a battery an indicator or a motor .

The AP e.g. the processor may control a plurality of hardware or software elements connected to the AP by running an operating system or an application program and may process various data including multimedia data and may perform an operation. The AP may be implemented with for example a system on chip SoC . In various embodiments the AP may further include a graphic processing unit GPU Not shown . However the AP may be implemented in any other suitable manner.

The communication module e.g. the communication interface may perform data transmission reception for communication between the electronic device e.g. the electronic device and another electronic device e.g. the electronic device or the server connected thereto through a network. In various embodiments the communication module may include in various embodiments a cellular module a Wi Fi module a BT module a GPS module an NFC module and a radio frequency RF module and or any other suitable communication module that performs data transmission reception.

The cellular module may provide a voice call service a video call service a text message service or an Internet service through a telecommunications network e.g. an LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS WiBro or GSM network . Furthermore the cellular module may identify and authenticate electronic devices in the telecommunications network using for example a subscriber identification module e.g. the SIM card . In various embodiments the cellular module may perform at least a part of functions provided by the AP . For example the cellular module may perform at least a part of a multimedia control function.

In various embodiments the cellular module may include a communication processor CP . The cellular module may be implemented with for example an SoC. Although illustrates that the cellular module e.g. a CP the memory and the power management module are separated from the AP the AP may include at least a part of the foregoing elements e.g. the cellular module In various embodiments.

In various embodiments the AP or the cellular module e.g. a CP may load on a volatile memory a command or data received from nonvolatile memories connected to the AP and the cellular module respectively or at least one of other elements so as to process the command or data. Furthermore the AP or the cellular module may store in the nonvolatile memory data received from or generated by at least one of the other elements.

Each of the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may include for example a processor for processing data transmitted received through the modules. illustrates that the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module are separate blocks. However in various embodiments at least a part e.g. two or more of the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may be included in a single integrated chip IC or IC package. For example at least a part of processors corresponding to the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module respectively e.g. a communication processor corresponding to the cellular module and a Wi Fi processor corresponding to the Wi Fi module may be implemented with a single SoC.

The RF module may transmit receive data for example the RF module may transmit receive RF signals. For example a transceiver a power amp module PAM a frequency filter or a low noise amplifier LNA may be included in the RF module . Furthermore the RF module may further include a component such as a conductor or a wire for transmitting receiving free space electromagnetic waves in a wireless communication system. illustrates that the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module share the single RF module . However in various embodiments at least one of the cellular module the Wi Fi module the BT module the GPS module or the NFC module may transmit receive RF signals through an additional RF module.

The SIM card may include a subscriber identification module and may be inserted into a slot formed at a specific location of the electronic device. The SIM card may include unique identification information e.g. an integrated circuit card identifier ICCID or subscriber information e.g. international mobile subscriber identity IMSI .

The memory e.g. the memory may include an internal memory or an external memory . The internal memory may include at least one of a volatile memory e.g. a dynamic RAM DRAM a static RAM SRAM or a synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM or a nonvolatile memory e.g. a one time programmable ROM OTPROM a programmable ROM PROM an erasable and programmable ROM EPROM an electrically erasable and programmable ROM EEPROM a mask ROM a flash ROM a NAND flash memory or a NOR flash memory .

In various embodiments the internal memory may be a solid state drive SSD . The external memory may include a flash drive for example compact flash CF secure digital SD micro secure digital Micro SD mini secure digital Mini SD extreme digital xD or a memory stick. The external memory may be functionally connected to the electronic device through various interfaces. In various embodiments the electronic device may further include a storage device or a storage medium such as a hard drive.

The sensor module may measure physical quantity or detect an operation state of the electronic device so as to convert measured or detected information into an electrical signal. The sensor module may include for example at least one of a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B an atmospheric pressure sensor C a magnetic sensor D an acceleration sensor E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G a color sensor H e.g. a red green blue RGB sensor a biometric sensor a temperature humidity sensor J an illumination sensor K or an ultraviolet UV sensor M. Additionally or alternatively the sensor module may include for example not shown an olfactory sensor E nose sensor an electromyography EMG sensor an electroencephalogram EEG sensor an electrocardiogram ECG sensor an infrared IR sensor an iris recognition sensor or a fingerprint sensor. The sensor module may further include a control circuit for controlling at least one sensor included therein.

The input device may include a touch panel a digital pen sensor a key or an ultrasonic input device . The touch panel may recognize a touch input using at least one of capacitive resistive infrared and ultraviolet sensing methods. The touch panel may further include a control circuit. In the case of using the capacitive sensing method a physical contact recognition or proximity recognition is allowed. The touch panel may further include a tactile layer. In this case the touch panel may provide tactile reaction to a user.

The digital pen sensor may be implemented in a similar or same manner as the method of receiving a touch input of a user or may be implemented using an additional sheet for recognition. The key may include for example a physical button an optical button or a keypad. The ultrasonic input device which is an input device for generating an ultrasonic signal may enable the electronic device to sense a sound wave through a microphone e.g. a microphone so as to identify data wherein the ultrasonic input device is capable of wireless recognition. In various embodiments the electronic device may use the communication module so as to receive a user input from an external device e.g. a computer or a server connected to the communication module .

The display e.g. the display may include a panel a hologram device or a projector . The panel may be for example a liquid crystal display LCD or an active matrix organic light emitting diode AM OLED . The panel may be for example flexible transparent or wearable. The panel and the touch panel may be integrated into a single module. The hologram device may display a stereoscopic image in a space using a light interference phenomenon. The projector may project light onto a screen so as to display an image. The screen may be disposed in the inside or the outside of the electronic device . In various embodiments the display may further include a control circuit for controlling the panel the hologram device or the projector .

The interface may include for example a high definition multimedia interface HDMI a universal serial bus USB an optical interface or a D subminiature D sub . The interface may be included in the communication interface illustrated in . Additionally or alternatively the interface may include for example a mobile high definition link MHL interface a secure digital SD card multi media card MMC interface or an infrared data association IrDA interface.

The audio module may convert a sound into an electrical signal or vice versa. At least a part of the audio module may be included in the input output interface illustrated in . The audio module may process sound information input or output through a speaker a receiver an earphone or the microphone .

In various embodiments the camera module for shooting a still image or a video may include at least one image sensor e.g. a front sensor or a rear sensor a lens not shown an image signal processor ISP not shown or a flash e.g. an LED or a xenon lamp not shown .

The power management module may manage power of the electronic device . Although not illustrated a power management integrated circuit PMIC a charger integrated circuit IC or a battery or fuel gauge may be included in the power management module .

The PMIC may be mounted on an integrated circuit or an SoC semiconductor. A charging method may be classified into a wired charging method and a wireless charging method. The charger IC may charge a battery and may prevent an overvoltage or an overcurrent from being introduced from a charger. In various embodiments the charger IC may include a charger IC for at least one of the wired charging method and the wireless charging method. The wireless charging method may include for example a magnetic resonance method a magnetic induction method or an electromagnetic method and may include an additional circuit for example a coil loop a resonant circuit or a rectifier.

The battery gauge may measure for example a remaining capacity of the battery and a voltage current or temperature thereof while the battery is charged. The battery may store or generate electricity and may supply power to the electronic device using the stored or generated electricity. The battery may include for example a rechargeable battery or a solar battery.

The indicator may display a specific state of the electronic device or a part thereof e.g. the AP such as a booting state a message state or a charging state. The motor may convert an electrical signal into a mechanical vibration. A processing device e.g. a GPU for supporting a mobile TV may be included in the electronic device . The processing device for supporting a mobile TV may process media data according to the standards of digital multimedia broadcasting DMB digital video broadcasting DVB or media flow.

Each of the above mentioned elements of hardware according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be configured with one or more components and the names of the elements may be changed according to the type of an electronic device. The hardware according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one of the above mentioned elements and some elements may be omitted or other additional elements may be added. Furthermore some of the elements of the hardware according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may be combined with each other so as to form one entity so that the functions of the elements may be performed in the same manner as before the combination.

Referring to the electronic device may include a first communication module a second communication module a control module a sensor and a memory . However the electronic device illustrated in is merely an implementation example of the present disclosure and various modifications may be made on the basis of the elements illustrated in .

The first communication module and the second communication module may perform communication through different networks. Here each of the different networks may be any one of a cellular network e.g. a 3G LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS WiBro or GSM network wireless fidelity Wi Fi Bluetooth BT near field communication NFC Internet local area network LAN wide area network WAN telecommunication network satellite network plain old telephone service POTS Internet of things IoT or Internet of everything IoE .

With continuing reference to In operation the first communication module or the second communication module may communicate with an external device by transmitting data through a transmitter corresponding to the first communication module or a transmitter corresponding to the second communication module of the electronic device . Further the operation of communicating with an external device may include receiving data through a receiver corresponding to the first communication module or a receiver corresponding to the second communication module .

The transmitting of data through the transmitter may include not only transmitting data requested from another electronic device or a server but also transmitting a message for requesting data a query and a network ping to the other electronic device or the server. Similarly the receiving of data through the receiver may include not only receiving data requested to be sent from the other electronic device or the server but also receiving a message containing a data request a query and a network ping from the other electronic device or the server.

Furthermore the data transmitted through the transmitter or the data received through the receiver may include a network beacon and network AP search data.

The first communication module and the second communication module may be simultaneously activated. In this case subject devices to or from which the first communication module and the second communication module transmit receive data may be different from each other. For example the electronic device may communicate with the server of using the first communication module while communicating with the electronic device of using the second communication module . Here in the case where the server of is operated by a communication service provider e.g. communication carrier such as SKT KT or LGT the communication with the server using the first communication module may be for example an incoming outgoing call received or transmitted from to the electronic device through a cellular network.

The first communication module and the second communication module may be activated at different times. For example various embodiments of the present disclosure may include not only a case where the first communication module and the second communication module are simultaneously activated but also a case where the second communication module is activated after the first communication module is activated and a case where the first communication module is activated after the second communication module is activated.

For example the electronic device may request data e.g. map data of Google Maps from a server of a content provider e.g. Google through a Wi Fi network using the second communication module while exchanging calls with the electronic device through a cellular network using the first communication module .

In various embodiments the electronic device may be connected to the electronic device through a short range wireless communication network e.g. Wi Fi Wi Fi direct BT or ZigBee etc. using the second communication module while being connected to a base station of a communication service provider to perform data communication through a cellular network using the first communication module . For example the electronic device may receive cellular data from the base station of the communication service provider in order to form a network coverage so called hotspot zone at the periphery of the electronic device as an access point AP and may transmit data for Wi Fi communication to another electronic device.

Furthermore the electronic device may perform communication through a prescheduled communication module for a prescheduled time using a time division multiplexing scheme.

The control module may adjust transmission power of each of the first communication module and the second communication module . Furthermore the control module may adaptively adjust or control transmission power of each of the first communication module and the second communication module . Herein a configuration of adjusting transmission power of the first communication module or the second communication module may be construed as including a configuration of adaptively adjusting transmission power of each of the first communication module and the second communication module .

Here the control module may be included as one element in a processor to adjust transmission power of the first communication module or the second communication module . Alternatively the control module may be provided as part of a plurality of control modules and may be included in each of the first communication module and the second communication module to individually control the first communication module and the second communication module . Alternatively the control module may be disposed outside the processor independently from the processor to adjust transmission power of the first communication module or the second communication module .

In general if transmission power of a communication module is increased transmission efficiency is relatively increased. On the contrary if the transmission power of the communication module is decreased the transmission efficiency is relatively decreased. However as described above as the transmission power of the communication module is increased a larger amount of electromagnetic energy is radiated which may have an unhealthy effect upon the human body. Therefore the control module according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may adjust the transmission power of each of the first communication module and the second communication module in consideration of an amount of electromagnetic energy to be radiated and communication efficiency.

The control module may check the transmission power of the first communication module or the second communication module to adjust the transmission power of the first communication module or the second communication module .

The control module may adjust the transmission power of the first communication module or the second communication module on the basis of the checked transmission power of the first communication module or the second communication module .

In various embodiments the control module may check a sum or total amount of the transmission power of the first communication module and the second communication module . In this case the control module may adjust the transmission power of the first communication module or the second communication module so that the sum of the transmission power of the first communication module and the second communication module does not exceed a preset threshold value or specified ranges . The preset threshold value or the specified ranges may be changed according to a characteristic of the first communication module or the second communication module .

The control module may check whether the first communication module and the second communication module simultaneously perform communication using at least one network.

If the first communication module and the second communication module simultaneously perform communication using at least one network the control module may adjust the transmission power of at least one of the first communication module and the second communication module .

For example in the case where the control module simultaneously performs communication through the first communication module and the second communication module using at least one network the control module may adjust the transmission power of at least one of the first communication module and the second communication module on the basis of values of a predefined transmission power data table. The transmission power data table is described below in greater in detail with reference to .

In various embodiments the control module may adjust the transmission power of the first communication module or the second communication module on the basis of a contact state between the electronic device and the human body. Here the contact state between the electronic device and the human body may be detected by the sensor . For example the sensor may detect the contact state using at least one of the sensors included in the sensor module of e.g. the gesture sensor A the grip sensor F the proximity sensor G the biometric sensor the temperature humidity sensor J or the fingerprint sensor the touch panel or the camera module .

For example the control module may differently adjust the transmission power for a case where the user has a telephone conversation using a speaker e.g. the speaker of of the electronic device i.e. in a speaker phone mode while placing the electronic device on a table in comparison to a case where the user has a telephone conversation using a receiver e.g. the receiver of of the electronic device while holding the electronic device closely to the user s head ear or face.

However in various embodiments each role of a receiver and a speaker may not be divided from each other according to the type of an electronic device. For example a smartpad that is relatively less frequently used for a call may not be provided with a receiver but may be provided with two speakers a first speaker and a second speaker having different roles. In this case and in various embodiments the first speaker for outputting a sound source may serve to enable the user to listen to the sound source at a certain distance from the first speaker. The second speaker which may replace a receiver may limit a sound volume to serve for an incoming outgoing call. Thus in certain embodiments the control module may differently adjust the transmission power on the basis of whether the first speaker or the second speaker of the smartpad is used.

Furthermore the control module may adjust the transmission power of the first communication module or the second communication module on the basis of which part of the human body contacts the electronic device . For example the control module may differently make a determination for a case where the electronic device is simply gripped by the user and another case where the electronic device is gripped by the user closely to the user s head to make or receive a call.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the first communication module of the electronic device may correspond to a cellular network and the second communication module may correspond to a Wi Fi network. In this case if the communication using the first communication module corresponds to an incoming outgoing call the control module may adjust the transmission power of the second communication module to maintain the quality of a call.

In various embodiments the control module may adjust the transmission power of the first communication module or the second communication module depending upon whether a receiver e.g. the receiver of or a microphone e.g. the microphone of mounted the electronic device is activated. For instance if the receiver or the microphone of the electronic device is activated the electronic device may be considered to be located adjacent to the user s ear or mouth. Therefore the control module may differently adjust the transmission power for a case where the receiver or the microphone of the electronic device is activated in comparison to a case where the receiver or the microphone of the electronic device is not activated or deactivated.

The control module may further and in various embodiments adjust the transmission power of the first communication module or the second communication module on the basis of a temperature of the electronic device . The temperature of the electronic device may be detected by the sensor . For example the sensor may sense the temperature using the temperature humidity sensor J included in the sensor module of the touch panel and or the camera module . Further the temperature of the electronic device may be measured using at least one of elements of the electronic device of which characteristics are changed by a temperature.

In the case of simultaneously or sequentially using the first communication module corresponding to a cellular network and the second communication module corresponding to a BT network the control module may maintain the second communication module with minimum power and in some cases may turn off the second communication module intermittently or permanently.

Various examples of adjusting or controlling the transmission power of the first communication module or the second communication module by the control module are described below with reference to .

Referring to the control module may adjust the transmission power of the first communication module or the second communication module by as much as preset amount or specified ranges of power regardless of actual transmission power of the first communication module or the second communication module . The preset amount or the specified ranges may be changed according to a characteristic of the first communication module or the second communication module .

Regarding a graph of lines and indicate the transmission power according to an electric field state wherein the line corresponds to the case where the transmission power is not adjusted and the line corresponds to the case where the transmission power is adjusted. It may be understood from the graph that the transmission power is decreased by as much as a dBm as a whole for all electric field states as a result of adjustment of the transmission power.

Regarding a graph of lines and indicate specific absorption rates SARs corresponding to the lines and wherein the line corresponds to the case where the transmission power is not adjusted and the line corresponds to the case where the transmission power is adjusted. It may be understood from the graph that the SAR of the case where the transmission power is adjusted is smaller than that of the case where the transmission power is not adjusted.

According to another embodiment of the present disclosure the control module may maintain the amount of the transmission power of the first communication module or the second communication module below the preset threshold value. Further the control module may maintain the sum or the total amount of the transmission power of the first communication module and the second communication module below the preset threshold value.

For example the control module may maintain the sum of the transmission power of the first communication module and the second communication module below the preset threshold value by adjusting the transmission power of the first communication module and or the second communication module .

In the graph depicted at lines and indicate transmission power according to an electric field state in which the line corresponds to the case where the transmission power is not adjusted and the line corresponds to the case where the transmission power is adjusted.

The preset threshold value is represented by the letter B dBm . It may be understood from the graph that the transmission power of the case where the transmission power is adjusted is maintained as B dBm in a region where the transmission power of the case where the transmission power is not adjusted exceeds B dBm .

Regarding a graph of lines and indicate SARs corresponding to the lines and wherein the line corresponds to the case where the transmission power is not adjusted and the line corresponds to the case where the transmission power is adjusted. It may be understood from the graph that the SAR of the case where the transmission power is adjusted is smaller than that of the case where the transmission power is not adjusted with respect to the region where the transmission power is adjusted.

The control module may adjust the transmission power of the first communication module or the second communication module on the basis of the transmission power data table stored in the memory . The data table is described below with reference to .

It should be noted that the data table which is used to adjust the transmission power of the first communication module or the second communication module corresponding to a Wi Fi network for the 802.11a standard is not limited to the numerical values illustrated in .

The data table may include information for each transmission power adjustment scenario according to various embodiments of the present disclosure.

Referring to a first case and to an Nth case each case contains threshold values or specified ranges at least differently set according to the electric field state. For example regarding the first case the threshold value or specified ranges for a strong electric field in which the electric field state is relatively good may be set to be a relatively low value labeled as a but the threshold value or specified ranges for a weak electric field in which the electric field state is relatively bad may be set to be a relatively high value a 16. Furthermore since the electric field state of an electric field is worse weaker than that of the electric field the threshold value or specified ranges may be set to be a 1. Similarly since the electric field state of an electric field is better stronger than that of the electric field the threshold value or specified ranges may be set to be a 15. The threshold value or the specified ranges may be changed according to a characteristic of the first communication module or the second communication module .

Furthermore since the transmission power required for protecting the user may be changed according to the scenarios the first case to the Nth case the data table may be differently set according to the scenarios even for the same network.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure each of the first case to the Nth case is based on conditions such as the contact state between the electronic device and the human body e.g. a simple grip state a face contact state a partial human body e.g. a knee contact state or the like or a distance between the electronic device and the human body so that an appropriate case for a situation may be selected to adjust the transmission power of the first communication module or the second communication module by the control module .

Furthermore according to various embodiments of the present disclosure each of the first case to the Nth case is based on conditions such as an antenna location an antenna type or the type of the network corresponding to an activated communication module the case where a plurality of antennas of the same type exist or the like so that an appropriate case for a situation may be selected to adjust the transmission power of the first communication module or the second communication module . For example when a plurality of antennas are activated the control module may adjust the transmission power of the first communication module or the second communication module corresponding to an antenna that is relatively close to the human body. Furthermore if there are a plurality of antennas of the same type for a multi input multi output MIMO system the control module may adjust the transmission power of the first communication module or the second communication module corresponding to a certain antenna on the basis of a result of antenna scheduling or the above mentioned contact state with human.

The data table may be differently determined on the basis of a frequency of a network corresponding to the first communication module or a network corresponding to the second communication module .

For example although illustrates the data table for a 802.11a Wi Fi network different data tables may be provided for each of 802.11b 802.11g 802.11n and 802.11ac Wi Fi networks.

However even for the same Wi Fi network different data tables may be provided according to an operating frequency. For example different data tables may be provided for a 802.11n Wi Fi network operating at a frequency of about 2.4 GHz and a 802.11n Wi Fi network operating at a frequency of about 5 GHz.

Furthermore even for the same operating frequency different data tables may be provided according to a bandwidth. For example different data tables may be provided for a bandwidth of about 20 MHz and a bandwidth of about 40 MHz with respect to the 802.11n Wi Fi network operating at a frequency of about 5 GHz. Likewise different data tables may be provided for a bandwidth of about 20 MHz a bandwidth of about 40 MHz and a bandwidth of about 80 MHz with respect to the 802.11ac Wi Fi network operating at a frequency of about 5 GHz.

The data table of is an example of a Wi Fi network and a data table for another network other than a Wi Fi network may be also stored in the memory . Furthermore it should be noted that various embodiments of the present disclosure do not exclude data tables for Wi Fi network standards to be developed or not yet commercialized other than the 802.11a b g n ac standards.

The control module according to another embodiment of the present disclosure may adaptively adjust the transmission power of each of the first communication module and the second communication module in consideration of the amount of electromagnetic energy to be radiated and or the communication efficiency.

Returning briefly to the memory may store data. Here the data stored in the memory may include data input output between elements of the electronic device . Furthermore the data stored in the memory may include data input output between the electronic device and elements outside the electronic device . For example the memory may store the data table and may also store information on whether a sensor a receiver or a microphone is activated.

As described above the memory may include a hard disk drive a read only memory ROM a random access memory RAM a flash memory and a memory card positioned inside or outside the electronic device .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the memory may be included in each of or either of the first communication module and or the second communication module or may be disposed as a single element or plurality of elements outside the communication modules and .

The data table may be prestored in the memory of the first communication module or the second communication module or may be stored in an AP e.g. the AP of so as to be transferred to the memory of the first communication module or the second communication module when the first communication module or the second communication module is activated.

The first communication module the second communication module the control module the sensor and the memory may be separately implemented and or two or more of the foregoing elements may be integrated with each other.

The AP of may correspond to the control module of and the sensor of may correspond to the sensor of . The communication memory or the AP memory of may correspond to the memory of .

The first antenna may serve for a first communication module of the electronic device and the second antenna may serve for a second communication module of the electronic device . Here the first communication module and second communication module may be simultaneously activated or a predetermined communication module may be activated for a scheduled time using for example a time division multiplexing scheme.

The AP may determine whether the first communication module and second communication module are simultaneously activated or the predetermined communication module is activated for the scheduled time using such a time division multiplexing scheme.

If for example the first communication module and second communication module are activated simultaneously or at different times the AP may adjust the transmission power of the first communication module and or the second communication module.

For instance the AP may directly adjust the transmission power of the first communication module and or the second communication module using the data table stored in the AP memory . Moreover in various embodiments the AP may read the data table stored in the communication memory to adjust the transmission power of the first communication module or the second communication module. Likewise the AP may instruct the first communication module and or the second communication module to adjust the transmission power thereof for itself using the communication memory .

Furthermore in various embodiments the AP may receive sensor measurement data from the sensor and may determine whether the electronic device contacts the human body on the basis of the sensor measurement data. Moreover the AP may adjust the transmission power of the first communication module and or the second communication module in consideration of whether the electronic device contacts the human body.

The communication module of may correspond to the first communication module and or the second communication module of the AP CP of may correspond to the control module of and the sensor of may correspond to the sensor of .

The AP CP may check whether the communication module is activated and may adjust the transmission power of the communication module if the communication module is activated.

Furthermore the AP CP may receive a sensing value from the sensor and may adjust the transmission power of the communication module on the basis of the sensing value received.

For instance referring to the electronic device may activate the first communication module and the second communication module in operation .

In operation the electronic device may check a temperature of the electronic device. As described above the temperature of the electronic device may be checked using at least one of various sensors.

In operation the electronic device may adjust the transmission power of at least one of the first communication module or the second communication module on the basis of the temperature checked in operation . Furthermore in operation the electronic device may adjust the transmission power of at least one of the first communication module or the second communication module on the basis of the network type or the antenna type of the communication module activated in operation .

Referring to the electronic device may active the first communication module and the second communication module in operation .

In operation the electronic device may detect the contact state between the electronic device and the human body. As described above the contact state between the electronic device and the human body may be checked using at least one of various sensors.

In operation the electronic device may adjust the transmission power of at least one of the first communication module or the second communication module on the basis of the contact state between the electronic device and the human body checked in operation . Furthermore in operation the electronic device may adjust the transmission power of at least one of the first communication module or the second communication module on the basis of the network type or the antenna type of the communication module activated in operation .

Referring to the electronic device may active the first communication module and the second communication module in operation .

In operation the electronic device may determine whether the first communication module and the second communication module are simultaneously activated to perform communication.

In operation the electronic device may check a state of the electronic device. For example the electronic device may check the temperature of the electronic device or the contact state between the electronic device and the human body.

In operation the electronic device may adjust by preset amount as a whole the transmission power of at least one of the first communication module or the second communication module on the basis of the state of the electronic device checked in operation . Furthermore in operation the electronic device may adjust the transmission power of at least one of the first communication module or the second communication module on the basis of the network type or the antenna type of the communication module activated in operation . In addition in operation the electronic device may adjust the transmission power of at least one of the first communication module or the second communication module on the basis of whether the first communication module and the second communication module are simultaneously activated.

Referring to the electronic device may active the first communication module and the second communication module in operation .

In operation the electronic device may determine whether the first communication module and the second communication module are activated at different times to perform communication.

In operation the electronic device may check a state of the electronic device. For example the electronic device may check the temperature of the electronic device or the contact state between the electronic device and the human body.

In operation the electronic device may adjust by preset amount as a whole the transmission power of at least one of the first communication module or the second communication module on the basis of the state of the electronic device checked in operation . Furthermore in operation the electronic device may adjust the transmission power of at least one of the first communication module or the second communication module on the basis of the network type or the antenna type of the communication module activated in operation . In addition in operation the electronic device may adjust the transmission power of at least one of the first communication module or the second communication module on the basis of whether the first communication module and the second communication module are activated at different times.

Referring to the electronic device may active the first communication module and the second communication module in operation .

In operation the electronic device may determine whether the first communication module and the second communication module are simultaneously activated to perform communication.

In operation the electronic device may check a state of the electronic device. For example the electronic device may check the temperature of the electronic device or the contact state between the electronic device and the human body.

In operation the electronic device may check the transmission power of the first communication module or the second communication module.

In operation the electronic device may adaptively adjust the transmission power of at least one of the first communication module or the second communication module on the basis of the state of the electronic device checked in operation or the transmission power of the first communication module or the second communication module checked in operation . Furthermore in operation the electronic device may adjust the transmission power of at least one of the first communication module or the second communication module on the basis of the network type or the antenna type of the communication module activated in operation . In addition in operation the electronic device may adjust the transmission power of at least one of the first communication module or the second communication module on the basis of whether the first communication module and the second communication module are simultaneously activated.

Referring to the electronic device may active the first communication module and the second communication module in operation .

In operation the electronic device may determine whether the first communication module and the second communication module are activated at different times to perform communication.

In operation the electronic device may check a state of the electronic device. For example the electronic device may check the temperature of the electronic device or the contact state between the electronic device and the human body.

In operation the electronic device may check the transmission power of the first communication module or the second communication module.

In operation the electronic device may adaptively adjust the transmission power of at least one of the first communication module or the second communication module on the basis of the state of the electronic device checked in operation or the transmission power of the first communication module or the second communication module checked in operation . Furthermore in operation the electronic device may adjust the transmission power of at least one of the first communication module or the second communication module on the basis of the network type or the antenna type of the communication module activated in operation . In addition in operation the electronic device may adjust the transmission power of at least one of the first communication module or the second communication module on the basis of whether the first communication module and the second communication module are activated at different times.

The methods of adjusting transmission power illustrated in are different from those illustrated in in that the transmission power is not adjusted as a whole. According to the methods of adjusting transmission power illustrated in the transmission power of the first communication module or the second communication module may be pre checked so that the transmission power may be adaptively adjusted on the basis of the pre checked transmission power.

In operation the electronic device may activate a transmission module included in a communication module corresponding to a Wi Fi network.

In operation the electronic device may determine whether an incoming outgoing call is received or sent while a receiver is activated.

If the receiver is not activated the electronic device may not adjust the transmission power of the transmission module corresponding to the Wi Fi network in operation .

If an incoming outgoing call is received or sent while the receiver is activated the electronic device may determine whether the electronic device contacts the human body in operation . In this case it may be determined using at least one of various sensors of the electronic device whether the electronic device contacts the human body.

If for example the electronic device does not contact the human body the electronic device may not adjust the transmission power of the transmission module corresponding to the Wi Fi network in operation .

If on the other hand the electronic device contacts the human body the electronic device may adjust the transmission power of the transmission module corresponding to the Wi Fi network in operation .

In operation the electronic device may decrease the transmission power of the transmission module corresponding to the Wi Fi network by as much as a preset amount of x dB at one time.

In various embodiments the electronic device may adjust the transmission power of a transmission module corresponding to a cellular network corresponding to an incoming outgoing call. Furthermore the electronic device may adaptively adjust the transmission power by checking current transmission power without being limited to the case of adjusting the transmission power at one time.

Orders of the operations described above with reference to are merely examples and are not limited thereto. That is the orders of the above mentioned operations may as those of skill in the art will appreciate be changed and some of the operations may be performed simultaneously. Furthermore the above mentioned operations may be periodically performed at preset intervals or may be performed again in response to an input from the user.

In various embodiments at least a part of one or more devices e.g. modules or functions thereof or methods e.g. operations may be implemented as instructions stored in a tangible non transitory computer readable storage medium in the form of a programming module. In the case where the instructions are performed by at least one processor e.g. the processor the at least one processor may perform functions corresponding to the instructions. The computer readable storage medium may be for example the memory . At least a part of the programming module may be implemented e.g. executed by the processor . At least a part of the programming module may include for example a module a program a routine sets of instructions and or a process for performing at least one function.

The module or programming module according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one of the above mentioned elements or some elements may be omitted or other additional elements may be added. Operations performed by the programming module or the other elements may be performed in a sequential parallel iterative or heuristic way. Furthermore some operations may be performed in another order or may be omitted or other operations may be added.

The tangible non transitory computer readable storage medium may include a magnetic medium such as a hard disk a floppy disk and a magnetic tape an optical medium such as a compact disk read only memory CD ROM and a digital versatile disc DVD a magneto optical medium such as an optical disk and a hardware device configured to store and execute program instructions e.g. a programming module such as a read only memory ROM a random access memory RAM and a flash memory. The program instructions may include machine language codes made by compilers and high level language codes that can be executed by computers using interpreters. The above mentioned hardware may be configured to be operated as one or more software modules for performing operations according to various embodiments of the present disclosure and vice versa.

As described herein the amount of electromagnetic energy radiated from an electronic device may be controlled by adjusting the transmission power of a communication module of the electronic device so that the human body may be protected or secure from the radiated electromagnetic energy and SAR criteria for the electronic device may be satisfied. Furthermore heating of the electronic device may be reduced by adjusting the transmission power of the communication module thereby improving the convenience of the user.

The above embodiments of the present disclosure are illustrative and not limitative. Various alternatives and equivalents are possible. Other additions subtractions or modifications are obvious in view of the present disclosure and are intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims.

