---

title: Method for measuring biological signal and wearable electronic device for the same
abstract: According to an embodiment of the present disclosure, there is a wearable electronic device, comprising: a first sensor configured to sense a movement of the electronic device; a second sensor configured to sense a biological signal for a user wearing the electronic device; and a processor configured to compute a movement value of the electronic device using the first sensor, to detect a resting state when the movement value lasts within a predetermined first threshold range during a first time period, and to configure biological information of the user based on a biological signal measured after detection of the resting state.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09510790&OS=09510790&RS=09510790
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09510790
owner_city: Yeongtong-gu, Suwon-si, Gyeonggi-do
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20151218
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 a of a Korean patent application filed in the Korean Intellectual Property Office on Feb. 27 2015 and assigned Serial No. 10 2015 0028418 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

Electronic devices may carry out various functions in an integrated manner. For example smartphones or other portable terminals are advancing to allow users more convenience with better performance. Wearable electronic devices recently developed are a sort of electronic devices with shapes such as wristwatches headsets or glasses that may be put on user s body. As such electronic devices nowadays go beyond their own unique functionalities and converge with other portable devices.

More attention is directed to health and leads to vigorous research efforts in electronic device based healthcare applications. Sensors of an electronic device may gather information relating to the electronic device the exterior of the electronic device or information regarding the user. Among others steady measurement of biological signals is critical in a check up on the user s physical condition. The demand for technology that may monitor the user s condition during a workout or diet session is prompting the development of electronic devices equipped with the functionality of checking the user s heart rate.

A normal resting heart rate refers to a beat count per minute measured while the user lies on the bed. Taking an average of values measured during the same time duration consecutively five or more days as a resting heart rate reduces errors in measurement. However it is tough for the user to measure their heart rate in the same time duration right before they get up. Five to ten minutes of relaxation prior to measurement of the heart rate using the electronic device also results in a more accurate measurement. Further this can be quite inconvenient for many users.

Consecutively check the user s heart rate 24 hours using an electronic device to address such issues results in significant battery consumption. The foregoing also fails to distinguish the user s resting heart rate from those measured for the period. Accordingly the foregoing is not a suitable idea for portable electronic devices.

The above information is presented as background information only to assist with an understanding of the present disclosure. No determination has been made and no assertion is made as to whether any of the above might be applicable as prior art with regard to the present disclosure.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure there are provided a method for automatically measuring a user s biological signal depending on the user s condition in a wearable electronic device and a wearable electronic device for the same. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure there are a method for detecting a user s resting state to measure a biological signal corresponding to the resting state without the need of remaining still for the measurement and a wearable electronic device for the same.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure there is a method for reducing power consumption by activating a sensor for measuring a biological signal when the user is determined to be in a resting state based on the detection of a movement of an electronic device put on the user and a wearable electronic device for the same.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure there is a wearable electronic device comprising a first sensor configured to sense a movement of the electronic device a second sensor configured to sense a biological signal for a user wearing the electronic device and a processor configured to compute a movement value of the electronic device using the first sensor to detect a resting state when the movement value lasts within a predetermined first threshold range during a first time period and to configure biological information of the user based on a biological signal measured after detection of the resting state.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure a method for measuring biological information using a wearable electronic device comprises sensing a movement of the electronic device computing a movement value of the electronic device using the sensed movement and detecting a resting state when the movement value is within a predetermined first threshold range during a first time period and configuring biological information of a user wearing the electronic device based on a biological signal for the user measured after detection of the resting state.

Other aspects advantages and salient features of the disclosure will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description which taken in conjunction with the annexed drawings discloses exemplary embodiments of the disclosure.

Throughout the drawings like reference numerals will be understood to refer to like parts components and structures.

Hereinafter embodiments of the present disclosure are described with reference to the accompanying drawings. However it should be appreciated that the present disclosure is not limited to the embodiments and all changes and or equivalents or replacements thereto also belong to the scope of the present disclosure. The same or similar reference denotations may be used to refer to the same or similar elements throughout the specification and the drawings.

As used herein the terms have may have include or may include a feature e.g. a number function operation or a component such as a part indicate the existence of the feature and do not exclude the existence of other features.

As used herein the terms A or B at least one of A and or B or one or more of A and or B may include all possible combinations of A and B. For example A or B at least one of A and B at least one of A or B may indicate all of 1 including at least one A 2 including at least one B or 3 including at least one A and at least one B.

As used herein the terms first and second may modify various components regardless of importance and or order and are used to distinguish a component from another without limiting the components. For example a first user device and a second user device may indicate different user devices from each other regardless of the order or importance of the devices. For example a first component may be denoted a second component and vice versa without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

It will be understood that when an element e.g. a first element is referred to as being operatively or communicatively coupled with to or connected with to another element e.g. a second element it can be coupled or connected with to the other element directly or via a third element. In contrast it will be understood that when an element e.g. a first element is referred to as being directly coupled with to or directly connected with to another element e.g. a second element no other element e.g. a third element intervenes between the element and the other element.

As used herein the terms configured or set to may be interchangeably used with the terms suitable for having the capacity to designed to adapted to made to or capable of depending on circumstances. The term configured or set to does not essentially mean specifically designed in hardware to. Rather the term configured to may mean that a device can perform an operation together with another device or parts. For example the term processor configured or set to perform A B and C may mean a generic purpose processor e.g. a CPU or application processor that may perform the operations by executing one or more software programs stored in a memory device or a dedicated processor e.g. an embedded processor for performing the operations.

The terms as used herein are provided merely to describe some embodiments thereof but not to limit the scope of other embodiments of the present disclosure. It is to be understood that the singular forms a an and the include plural references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. The terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which the embodiments of the present disclosure belong. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein. In some cases the terms defined herein may be interpreted to exclude embodiments of the present disclosure.

For example examples of the electronic device according to embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one of a smartphone a tablet personal computer PC a mobile phone a video phone an e book reader a desktop PC a laptop computer a netbook computer a workstation a PDA personal digital assistant a portable multimedia player PMP an MP3 player a mobile medical device a camera or a wearable device. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the wearable device may include at least one of an accessory type device e.g. a watch a ring a bracelet an anklet a necklace glasses contact lenses or a head mounted device HIVID a fabric or clothes integrated device e.g. electronic clothes a body attaching type device e.g. a skin pad or tattoo or a body implantable device e.g. an implantable circuit .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may be a home appliance. For example examples of the home appliance may include at least one of a television a digital video disk DVD player an audio player a refrigerator an air conditioner a cleaner an oven a microwave oven a washer a drier an air cleaner a set top box a home automation control panel a security control panel a TV box e.g. Samsung HomeSync Apple TV or Google TV a gaming console Xbox PlayStation an electronic dictionary an electronic key a camcorder or an electronic picture frame.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure examples of the electronic device may include at least one of various medical devices e.g. diverse portable medical measuring devices a blood sugar measuring device a heartbeat measuring device or a body temperature measuring device a magnetic resource angiography MRA device a magnetic resource imaging MRI device a computed tomography CT device an imaging device or an ultrasonic device a navigation device a global navigation satellite system GNSS receiver an event data recorder EDR a flight data recorder FDR an automotive infotainment device an sailing electronic device e.g. a sailing navigation device or a gyro compass avionics security devices vehicular head units industrial or home robots automatic teller s machines ATMs point of sales POS devices or Internet of Things devices e.g. a bulb various sensors an electric or gas meter a sprinkler a fire alarm a thermostat a street light a toaster fitness equipment a hot water tank a heater or a boiler .

According to various embodiments of the disclosure examples of the electronic device may at least one of part of furniture or building structure an electronic board an electronic signature receiving device a projector or various measurement devices e.g. devices for measuring water electricity gas or electromagnetic waves . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may be one or a combination of the above listed devices. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may be a flexible electronic device. The electronic device disclosed herein is not limited to the above listed devices and may include new electronic devices depending on the development of technology.

Hereinafter electronic devices are described with reference to the accompanying drawings according to various embodiments of the present disclosure. As used herein the term user may denote a human or another device e.g. an artificial intelligent electronic device using the electronic device.

Referring to the electronic device may include a bus a processor a memory an input output interface a display a communication interface and a sensor module . In some embodiments the electronic device may exclude at least one of the components or may add another component.

The bus may include a circuit for connecting the components to with one another and transferring communications e.g. control messages and or data between the components.

The processing module may include one or more of a central processing unit CPU an application processor AP or a communication processor CP . The processor may perform control on at least one of the other components of the electronic device and or perform an operation or data processing relating to communication. The processor may receive a command from other component e.g. the memory the input output interface the display the communication interface or the sensor module through e.g. the bus may interpret the received command and may execute computation or data processing according to the interpreted command.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the processor may perform the operation of sensing a movement of the electronic device for example in conjunction with the sensor module the operation of computing a movement value of the electronic device using the sensed movement to determine a resting time when the movement value is maintained within a predetermined first threshold range during a first time interval and the operation of configuring bio information of a user wearing the electronic device based on a biological signal for the user measured after the resting time.

Specifically the processor may determine whether the electronic device is worn based on data sensed from the sensor module and when the electronic device is worn may compute movement strengths of the electronic device to determine a variation in movement strength and to determine whether the variation in movement strength is maintained for a predetermined time within a predetermined threshold range. When the variation in movement strength is maintained for the predetermined time within the predetermined threshold range is considered to be in a resting state where there is little or no movement of the user and a bio sensor for measuring a biological signal may be activated to measure a biological signal in the resting state.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the processor may activate at least one bio sensor included in the sensor module and the bio sensor may accordingly measure various biological signals from the user s body to output various bio sensor values related to the user s body. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure among the bio sensors a heart rate sensor may be activated to measure a heart rate. Besides other biological signals such as the user s blood pressure blood flow respiration rate oxygen saturation cardiorespiratory sound or blood sugar may be measured to determine the user s state in the resting state.

As described above at the time of being determined to be in the resting state based on the detection of a movement of the electronic device put on the user the bio sensor may be activated to measure a heart rate. Thus power consumption of the electronic device may be minimized. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure since the bio sensor is activated considering a previous movement state even when it is determined to be in the resting state a more accurate result of measurement of a heart rate corresponding to the resting state may be obtained.

The memory may store a command or data received from other component e.g. the input output interface the display the communication interface or the sensor module or a command or data generated by the processor or other component. The memory may retain programming modules including e.g. a kernel middleware an application programming interface API or an application . The programming modules may comprise a portion of memory storing a plurality of machine readable instructions.

The memory may store sensing data measured by one or more sensors included in the sensor module . The memory may further store sensing data e.g. speed acceleration or traveling direction of the electronic device measured by an acceleration sensor or gyro sensor included in the sensor module . The memory may further store sensor values to analyze the speed acceleration or traveling direction of the electronic device to determine the user s current moving state or movement e.g. walking jogging or sleeping .

The memory may previously retain data to determine whether the electronic device is worn based on the sensing data. Further the memory may previously retain data to determine a state where the user comes to rest and is in a stable condition while the user does their daily routine with the electronic device on them. Further bio sensor values measured in every resting state where the variation in movement strength is maintained for a predetermined time within a predetermined threshold range may be recorded in the memory . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure biological signals such as heart rates body temperatures or skin resistances may be measured whenever the resting state comes up. Further upon storing a bio sensor value information collected under the control of the processor may be stored as well. For example the place corresponding to the location information on the electronic device time of the measurement or use history of the application on the electronic device may be stored mapped with bio information configured based on the bio sensor values.

The kernel may control or manage system resources e.g. the bus the processor or the memory used to execute the operation or function implemented in the other programming modules e.g. the middleware the API or the application . The kernel may provide an interface that allows the middleware the API or the application to access the individual components of the electronic device to control or manage the same.

The middleware may function as a relay to allow the API or the application to communicate data with the kernel . A plurality of applications may be provided. The middleware may perform control in response to work requests received from the applications e.g. by allocating the priority of using the system resources of the electronic device e.g. the bus the processor or the memory to at least one of the plurality of applications in relation to the work requests.

The API is an interface allowing the application to control functions provided from the kernel or the middleware . For example the API may include at least one interface or function e.g. a command for filing control window control image processing or text control.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure there may be provided a plurality of applications including a short message service SMS multimedia messaging service MMS application an email application a calendar application an alarm application a health care application e.g. an application for monitoring a state of measuring a heart rate or an application for measuring calorie consumption based on the heart rate or an environmental information application e.g. an application providing atmospheric pressure moisture or temperature information . Further the application may be an application related to information exchange between the electronic device and an external electronic device e.g. electronic device or . Examples of the information exchange related application may include but is not limited to a notification relay application for transferring specific information to the external electronic device or a device management application for managing the external electronic device.

For example in the case of the health care application the user may execute the health care application to access the health care server or external electronic device . Here the electronic device may receive location information from the electronic device via the communication interface .

The user may measure bio information using a bio sensor included in the sensor module . The electronic device may transmit a measurement value of bio information to the external electronic device or healthcare server via the communication interface . In case the electronic device transmits the measurement value to the healthcare server the electronic device may obtain a diagnosis result for the measurement value from the healthcare server and may display the diagnosis result on the display or provide the same to the user through e.g. an alert sound or voice message. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may transmit the measurement value of the bio information to the healthcare server or the external electronic device and may output information corresponding to the measurement value of the bio information.

Here the external electronic device may receive the measurement value of the bio information from the electronic device collect generate manage store provide or process the information and may send a result back to the electronic device . To that end the external electronic device may be implemented to be similar in configuration to the electronic device .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the applications may include an application designated according to an attribute e.g. type of the electronic device of the external electronic device e.g. the electronic device . Further the applications may include at least one of an application designated to the electronic device or an application received from an external electronic device e.g. the health care server or the electronic device .

The input output interface may transfer commands or data input by the user through an input output device e.g. a keyboard or touch screen to the processor the memory or the communication interface through e.g. the bus . For example the input output interface may provide data for an input means such as the user s finger or an electronic pen input through the touch screen to the processor .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the input unit of the input output interface may include a touch panel a digital pen sensor a key or an ultrasonic input device. The touch panel may recognize touch inputs in at least one of capacitive resistive infrared or ultrasonic methods. The touch panel may be implemented as at least one or more panels that may sense various inputs such as the user s single or multi touch input a drag input a handwriting input or a drawing input using various objects such as a finger or pen.

For example the touch panel may be implemented using a single panel that may sense both a finger input and a pen input or using two panels including a touch recognition module that may sense a finger input and a pen recognition module that may sense a pen input. Further the touch panel may further include a control circuit. With the capacitive method physical contact or proximity detection may be possible. The touch panel may further include a tactile layer. In this regard the touch panel may provide the user with a tactile response. The input output interface may output through the input output device e.g. a speaker or display commands or data received from the processor the memory the communication interface or the sensor module through e.g. the bus .

The display may display various types of information e.g. multimedia data or text data to the user. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the display may display a screen for identifying a bio information measurement result for the user. The display may be implemented as a touch screen. The touch screen may be provided with a display panel performing a display function for information output from the electronic device and an input panel performing various input functions by the user. The display panel may be a panel such as e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or active matrix organic light emitting diode AMOLED panel.

The display panel may display various screens according to various operation states of the electronic device application execution and services.

The input panel may be implemented as at least one or more panels that may sense various inputs such as the user s single or multi touch input a drag input a handwriting input or a drawing input using various objects such as a finger or pen. For example the input panel may be implemented using a single panel that may sense both a finger input and a pen input or using two panels including a touch recognition module that may sense a finger input and a pen recognition module that may sense a pen input.

Such touch screen may output to a touch screen controller a signal corresponding to at least one user input to the user graphic interface. The touch screen may receive at least one user input through the user s body e.g. an index finger or other finger . The touch screen may receive a continuous motion of a touch. The touch screen may output an analog signal corresponding to the continuous motion of the input touch to the touch screen controller.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the touch is not limited to a contact between the touch screen and a user input means such as a finger and rather may include a non contact for example the case where the user input means is positioned within a recognition distance e.g. 1 cm where the user input means may be detected without a direct contact with the touch screen . The distance or interval within which the user input means may be recognized on the touch screen may be varied depending on the performance or structure of the electronic device . In particular the touch screen may be configured to output a value detected by a direct touch event by a contact of the user input means to the touch screen and a value including e.g. a voltage value or current value as an analog value detected by an indirect touch event i.e. a hovering event which are different from each other so that the direct touch event and the hovering event may be detected distinct from each other.

Such touch screen may be implemented e.g. in a capacitive infrared or acoustic wave manner or in a combination thereof.

The touch screen controller converts a signal input from the touch screen into a digital signal and transmits the same to the controller. The controller may control the user interface displayed on the touch screen using the digital signal received from the touch screen controller. For example the controller may allow a shortcut icon not shown displayed on the touch screen or object to be selected or executed in response to the direct touch event or hovering event. Further the touch screen controller may be integrated with the controller.

The touch screen controller may identify a hovering interval or distance as well as the position of the user s input by detecting the value e.g. a current value output through the touch screen and may convert the identified distance value into a digital signal e.g. a Z axis and provide the same to the controller.

The communication interface may establish communication between the electronic device and an external electronic device e.g. the electronic device or the health care server . For example the communication interface may be connected with the network through wireless or wired communication to communicate with the external device e.g. the external electronic device or the healthcare server .

The wireless communication may be a cellular communication protocol and may use at least one of e.g. long term evolution LTE LTE advanced LTE A code division multiple access CDMA wideband CDMA WCDMA universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS wireless broadband WiBro or global system for mobile communications GSM . Further the wireless communication may include e.g. short range communication . The short range communication may include at least one of wireless fidelity Wi Fi Bluetooth near field communication NFC or global navigation satellite system GNSS . The GNSS may include at least one of e.g. global positioning system GPS global navigation satellite system Glonass Beidou navigation satellite system hereinafter Beidou or Galileo or the European global satellite based navigation system. Hereinafter the terms GPS and the GNSS may be interchangeably used herein. The wired connection may include at least one of e.g. universal serial bus USB high definition multimedia interface HDMI recommended standard RS 232 or plain old telephone service POTS . The network may include at least one of telecommunication networks e.g. a computer network e.g. LAN or WAN Internet or a telephone network.

The external electronic devices and each may be a device of the same or a different type from the electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the healthcare server may include a group of one or more servers. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure all or some of operations executed on the electronic device may be executed on another or multiple other electronic devices e.g. the external electronic devices and or healthcare server . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure when the electronic device should perform some function or service automatically or at a request the electronic device instead of executing the function or service on its own or additionally may request another device e.g. electronic devices and or healthcare server to perform at least some functions associated therewith. The other electronic device e.g. electronic devices and or healthcare server may execute the requested functions or additional functions and transfer a result of the execution to the electronic device . The electronic device may provide a requested function or service by processing the received result as it is or additionally. To that end a cloud computing distributed computing or client server computing technique may be used for example.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may be connected with the healthcare server through the network . The electronic device may transmit a result of bio information measurement to the healthcare server and obtain health related information created based on the result of the bio information measurement from the healthcare server .

Further the electronic device may analyze process or treat bio information of the measured target e.g. a result of monitoring a heart rate in the resting state in real time and output the result while simultaneously transmitting the result to the healthcare server allowing a result of diagnosis or prescription according to the result to be output.

Further the electronic device may accumulate results of bio information measurement for a predetermined period necessary for health diagnosis and may store the accumulated bio information measurement data in the memory . The accumulated bio information measurement data may be transmitted to the healthcare server . The healthcare server may allow for comprehensive support on various heath state information diagnosis results the search for various medical information customers health promotion self diagnosis medical service appointments information of comparing and evaluating various products and information on clinics based on the received bio information measurement data.

When the diagnosis result shows an emergency e.g. when a width of a variation in heart rate in the resting state is greater than or equal to a predetermined level the healthcare server or the electronic device may inform the user of the emergency so that the user may take emergency measures. As such the healthcare server may collect generate store provide or process the bio information that is based on the measured biological signal and send the result back to the user through the electronic device .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the network may be a telecommunication network. The telecommunication network may include a computer network the Internet an Internet of things IoT network or a telephone network or any combination of the foregoing. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure protocols for communication between the electronic device and the external electronic device examples of such protocols include but not limited to transport layer protocol data link layer protocol or physical layer protocol may be supported by the application the API the middleware the kernel or the communication interface .

The sensor module may include at least one sensor for detecting the state of the electronic device . For example the sensor module may include a proximity sensor to detect whether the user approaches the electronic device and a motion sensor to detect a motion or movement of the electronic device . Here the motion sensor may output a sensing data value according to a movement of the electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the motion sensor may include an acceleration sensor to detect the acceleration of the electronic device . Here the acceleration sensor may be a two dimensional X axis and Y axis or three dimensional X axis Y axis and Z axis acceleration sensor.

The sensor module may further include at least one of an illumination sensor to detect the amount of light around the electronic device a motion sensor to detect an operation of the electronic device a gyroscope to detect the rotation of the electronic device a geomagnetic sensor to detect an orientation point of the compass of the electronic device using a geomagnetic field a gravity sensor to detect the direction in which the gravity acts and an altimeter to measure an air pressure to detect the altitude.

Further the sensor module may include a bio sensor. The bio sensor may measure various biological signals for the user wearing the electronic device and output bio sensor values respectively corresponding to the biological signals. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the bio sensor may include a heart rate sensor to measure the user s heart rate. It is noted that the heart rate can be measured by measurement of a pulse. Accordingly as used herein heart rate shall include pulse. As the heart rate sensor a piezoelectric sensor or photoelectric sensor may come in use. Further the bio sensor may include at least one of a galvanic skin response GSR sensor or a temperature sensor. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the bio sensor may be used to determine whether the electronic device is being worn on the user s body as well as to measure various biological signals of the user. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure in order to determine whether the electronic device is being worn on the user s body the bio sensor may be activated or the proximity sensor to detect whether the user approaches the may be activated. Or two or more sensors such as the bio sensor or proximity sensor may be activated.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure when the electronic device is determined through the proximity sensor to approach or contact a portion of the user s body the acceleration sensor may be used to produce a movement value of the electronic device and to determine a resting time when the movement value is maintained for a predetermined time period within a predetermined threshold range to activate the bio sensor at the resting time. Here the bio sensor may be activated at the resting time when the movement value is determined to be maintained for the predetermined time period within the predetermined first threshold range. Alternatively the bio sensor may be activated at the time when the movement value comes in the predetermined first threshold range. As such the bio sensor e.g. the heart rate sensor may be activated at the time when it is determined that there is no movement. Thus a heart rate measurement result in the resting state may be obtained.

Each of the aforementioned components of the electronic device may include one or more parts and a name of the part may vary with a type of the electronic device. The electronic device in accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one of the aforementioned components omit some of them or include other additional component s . Some of the components may be combined into an entity but the entity may perform the same functions as the components may do.

The term module may refer to a unit including one of hardware memory storing executable instructions a computer readable medium having executable instructions embedded thereon or a combination thereof. The term module may be interchangeably used with a unit logic logical block component or circuit. The module may be a minimum unit or part of an integrated component. The module may be a minimum unit or part of performing one or more functions. The module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example the module may include at least one of Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC chips Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs or Programmable Logic Arrays PLAs that perform some operations which have already been known or will be developed in the future.

At least a part of the device e.g. modules or their functions or method e.g. operations may be implemented as instructions stored in a computer readable storage medium e.g. in the form of a programming module. The instructions when executed by one or more processor e.g. the processor may cause the processor to carry out a corresponding function. The computer readable storage medium may be e.g. the memory . At least a part of the programming module may be implemented e.g. executed by e.g. the processor . At least a part of the programming module may include e.g. a module program routine set of instructions process or the like for performing one or more functions.

The computer readable storage medium may include a hardware device configured to store and perform program instructions e.g. programming module such as magnetic media such as hard discs floppy discs and magnetic tapes optical media such as compact disc read only memories CD ROMs and digital versatile discs DVDs magneto optical media such as floptical disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs flash memories and or the like. Examples of the program instructions may include not only machine language codes but also high level language codes which are executable by various computing means using an interpreter. The aforementioned hardware devices may be configured to operate as one or more software modules to carry out exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure and vice versa.

Referring to the electronic device may be worn by the user. The electronic device may monitor the user s condition or state while worn by the user. The electronic device may be put on a portion of the user s body such as face wrist arm head or ankle. While put on the portion of the user s body the electronic device may be able to monitor the heart rate even in sleep. Therefore the user s heart rate in the resting state may be automatically measured whenever the motionless state lasts for a predetermined time even while the user does his daily routines eliminating the need of forcedly leaving himself in the lying position before wakeup to measure a resting heart rate. As such heart rate measurement results accumulate for a predetermined time period the result of monitoring resting heart rates becomes more reliable.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may be an electronic device that may be worn like e.g. a watch armband hair band or bracelet. However embodiments of the present disclosure are not limited thereto. For example the electronic device may be one of an anklet a strip a band an adhesive Band Aid type band a belt an ear worn earphone a headphone a clothes type device a shoe type device a head mounted display HMD a hat type device a glove type device a thimble fingertip worn device a clip type device an armband type device a contact lens device a digital clothing device or a remote controller.

Further according to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may apply to a curved part of the user s body in a diversified manner. The curved part of the user s body may be e.g. a wrist or ankle. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may be easily put on various parts of the user s body depending on the configuration of a wearing unit.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may include the main body a function device portion and a wearing portion including a wearing member e.g. a band or strap . The main body may be detachably coupled to the wearing portion . On the main body may be arranged a display to display various types of information a pressing key e.g. a side key K to enter various types of information a sensor module e.g. a bio sensor or a touch input unit. The main body may include a front surface F and a rear surface R contacting the user s body when the electronic device is worn on the user . The display may be positioned on the front surface F of the main body and the sensor module may be positioned on the rear surface R of the main body .

The main body may be shaped as a bar and may at least partially have a curvature corresponding to the user s body. For example the main body may be shaped substantially as a rectangle extending in the vertical direction the Y axis direction with a curvature. The main body may have a connecting hole on its side for coupling with the wearing portion .

The wearing portion may be formed of an elastic material and enables the main body to be stably worn on the user s body. As necessary the wearing portion may bring the main body in snug contact with the user s skin. The main body may be detachably coupled to the wearing portion . Accordingly the wearing portion may be adjusted by the user s taste or preference. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the portion of the wearing portion that is coupled to the main body may be configured to be elastically transformed and the worn surface e.g. the inner surface of the first and second wearing members and brought in snug contact with the user s body might not be formed of an elastic material. The wearing portion may have an opening extending in a direction thereof and where the main body is fitted or removed.

The first and second wearing members and may extend apart from each other along the vertical direction Y of the main body . However the first and second wearing members and may have a curved shape along the thickness direction Z of the main body considering that the electronic device is worn on the user s body.

The wearing portion may include a means to together couple the first and second wearing members and . For example as the first wearing member and the second wearing member are tied together the wearing portion may be left in a closed curve shape. The wearing portion when configured to have an exchangeable structure may be implemented to have various designs or colors and may be replaced by the user s taste. That is the wearing portion may be utilized as a fashion accessory.

Referring to the main body may include a body housing and a display mounted on the body housing . The body housing may include a front surface F a rear surface R and a side surface connecting the front surface F with the rear surface R. The front surface F and the rear surface R each may be configured with a curvature. The main body may further include a pressing key e.g. a side key K to enter various types of information. The front surface F is a surface on which the display is positioned and the rear surface R is a surface that contacts the user s body. The front surface F has a first curvature and the rear surface R has a second curvature. The first and second curvatures may be determined considering the design of the product the outline of the user wrist and the sense of wearing. illustrate an example in which the first curvature is smaller than the second curvature. Although in the instant embodiment the rear surface R has the second curvature the rear surface R may alternatively be formed to be flat overall or partially.

The front surface F of the body housing has the display disposed thereon and needs to be configured to enable easier screen viewing. The rear surface R of the body housing should be configured to provide a comfortable fit. Since a sensor module e.g. a bio sensor is disposed on the rear surface R the rear surface R may have a shape to tightly contact the user s wrist.

The body housing may have a curvature suited for the user s body shape e.g. the thickness or curvature e.g. the second curvature of the wrist thus enhancing wearability and increasing compatibility with various customers. The curved display may be provided on the front surface F of the body housing and the sensor module e.g. a bio sensor may be provided on the rear surface R of the body housing . The rear surface R may come in contact with the user s body e.g. a wrist . As set forth above the body housing may be shaped to have a curvature considering the user s body shape and allows the sensor module to come in snug contact with the user s body.

The sensor module provided on the body housing may include at least one of an acceleration sensor a heart rate sensor a proximity sensor a photo sensor a GSR sensor and a temperature sensor such as a thermometer . The sensor module may include other various sensors to determine whether the electronic device is worn. Although the display is shown to have a shape reflecting the user s body curvature the display may alternatively be configured as a flat display e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or an organic light emitting diode OLED display a curved display or a flexible display. For example although in the instant embodiment the main body has a curved display the main body may alternatively have a flat display or a flexible display.

A protrusion may be formed on the rear surface R of the main body to allow the sensor module to more snugly contact the user s body. The sensor module may be positioned on the protrusion . Contact members e.g. recharging terminals may be arranged on the rear surface R of the main body . The array of the contact members may be positioned adjacent to the sensor module .

Referring to the sensor module may be provided on the rear surface R of the body housing in the form of a single module including an acceleration sensor to measure a movement of the electronic device a sensor used to determine whether the electronic device is worn on the body e.g. the proximity sensor and a bio sensor e.g. the heart rate sensor to measure a biological signal.

The sensor module may include a sensor interface e.g. an interface window disposed on the rear surface R of the main body . To place the sensor interface the protrusion may be formed on the rear surface R. As the sensor interface is disposed on the protrusion the sensor module may come in more snug contact with the user s body when sensing a biological signal.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the acceleration sensor may be a two dimensional X axis and Y axis or three dimensional X axis Y axis and Z axis acceleration sensor. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the proximity sensor may be used to determine whether the electronic device is worn on the body and the proximity sensor may detect whether an object e.g. the user s wrist approaches an inner surface of the electronic device . Here while the proximity sensor may detect an object approaching the inner surface of the electronic device at least one bio sensor may be activated to determine whether the approaching object is actually the user s body.

The proximity sensor may come in various types depending on detection schemes and among them may include an optical type photo sensor such as an infrared ray IR sensor.

The photo sensor may convert light itself or information included in light into an electric signal. The photo sensor may include a light emitting portion and a light receiving portion. The photo sensor may emit light through the light emitting portion and receive light through the light receiving portion. The photo sensor may come close or contact a portion of the user s body when the electronic device is worn on the user s body. When the photo sensor comes close or contacts the portion of the user s body light emitted from the light emitting portion may be radiated to the user s body and a reflection from the user s body may be received by the light receiving portion. The photo sensor may measure and output the amount of the reflection received by the light receiving portion. The amount of light measured may be used to determine whether the photo sensor comes close or contacts the portion of the user s body and whether the photo sensor comes close or contacts the portion of the user s body may be used to determine whether the electronic device is worn on the user s body.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure in addition to the heart rate sensor the sensor module may include a bio sensor that may measure various biological signals of the user s body to output various bio sensor values related to the user s body and that may detect the state of wearing the electronic device. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the bio sensor may include at least one of a GSR sensor or a temperature sensor. The sensor module may further include other bio sensors that may determine whether the electronic device is being worn on the user s body.

The GSR sensor may be a current skin resistance response sensor. The GSR sensor may be any one of an electrodermal response EDR sensor a psycho galvanic reflex PGR sensor or a skin conductance response SCR . The GSR sensor may include an ohmmeter and may measure an electric conductance between two points on the skin. The GSR sensor may come close or contact a portion of the user s body when the electronic device is worn on the user s body. The GSR sensor may output a skin resistance by measuring the electric conductance between the two points on the skin after applying a predetermined tiny amount of current to the user s skin when approaching or contacting the portion of the user s body. The electric conductance measured may be used to determine whether the GSR sensor comes close or contacts the portion of the user s body and whether the GSR sensor comes close or contacts the portion of the user s body may be used to determine whether the electronic device is worn on the user s body.

The temperature sensor may be a sensor that measures a temperature based on variations of electrical resistance voltage or current that is made when the temperature changes. The temperature sensor may come close or contact a portion of the user s body when the electronic device is worn on the user s body. The temperature sensor may output the value of a variation in internal resistance voltage or current that occurs due to the body temperature when it approaches or contacts a portion of the user s body. The measured value of the variation in internal resistance voltage or current may be used to determine whether the temperature sensor comes close or contacts the portion of the user s body and whether the temperature sensor comes close or contacts the portion of the user s body may be used to determine whether the electronic device is worn on the user s body.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the bio sensor may include any other sensors that may measure a biological signal to determine whether the electronic device is being worn on the user s body than the heart rate sensor the GSR sensor and the temperature sensor. For example the bio sensor may include a heart rate variability HRV sensor to measure a pulse wave signal.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure when the proximity sensor determines that the electronic device approaches or contacts a portion of the user s body that is while the electronic device is worn the acceleration sensor may whether a variation in the degree of movement output lasts for a predetermined time period within a predetermined interval. When the variation in the degree of movement of the electronic device is maintained for the time period within the predetermined interval the heart rate sensor may be activated. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the proximity sensor or at least one of the bio sensors may be activated to detect the state of being worn. Or two or more sensors may be activated. Further other bio sensors may be included to detect a sensing value to determine whether the electronic device is worn.

Although illustrates an example in which the sensor module is disposed at the center of the rear surface of the substantially flat body housing of the electronic device the sensor module may alternatively be disposed on an edge of the rear surface or may be disposed at any other positions where the sensor module may come in contact with the user s body. Further as shown in the body housing may have a predetermined curvature suited for the shape of the user s body e.g. the thickness or curvature of the wrist so as to come in snug contact with the user s skin. The contact members e.g. recharging terminals may be arranged adjacent to the sensor module .

Referring to the electronic device may be implemented as a display device wearable on the user s body e.g. face or head. A see through display unit may be positioned in a region adjacent to the user s head e.g. an eye and a speaker not shown may be positioned in a region adjacent to the user s ear to provide the user with visual information and auditory information. The electronic device may include a glasses type display device or a helmet type display device. The electronic device may include a monocular type display device with a single display unit for displaying content or a binocular type display unit with a plurality of display units.

As shown in a sensor module may be disposed on a portion of the electronic device snugly contacting the user s body e.g. sides of the head . Although illustrates an example in which the proximity sensor to sense whether the electronic device is worn and the bio sensor to measure a biological signal are provided together in a region of the electronic device the proximity sensor and the bio sensor may be arranged separately from each other. Accordingly the position of the sensor module e.g. the proximity sensor or the bio sensor may be changed corresponding to the performance or structure of the electronic device in order to measure a biological signal while sensing whether the electronic device is worn.

Referring to the electronic device may determine through the sensor module whether a movement occurs in operation . When a movement occurs a variation in movement strength of the electronic device may be determined in operation . Here the variation in movement strength may represent a variation history between the current degree of movement and the degree of movement that occurred a predetermined time before the current movement.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may compute a movement value according to the movement of the electronic device using the acceleration sensor and may compute the variation in movement strength of the electronic device using the computed movement value. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may compute variations in movement strength in predetermined time units e.g. one second five seconds or other various time units. Accordingly the variation in movement strength may be computed at a predetermined period e.g. ten times per second and the period of computing the variation in movement strength may be changed.

The electronic device may determine the variation in movement strength to determine whether the pattern of the variation in movement strength is a predetermined pattern in operation . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the predetermined pattern may be a pattern in which the movement strength is reduced. For example when the user holds up the electronic device on the table and puts it on his wrist the movement strength when the electronic device is held up may be larger than the movement strength when the electronic device is put on. Further the movement strength when putting on the electronic device may be small as compared to holding up the electronic device because of band adjustment or other manipulations to make the electronic device snug with the wrist.

If during operation the movement strength variation does not follow the predetermined pattern the process is terminated.

As such when the movement strength is reduced the electronic device may determine whether the electronic device is worn in operation . That is when receiving movement measurements by the sensor module that are consistent with the user wearing the electronic device it may be determined that the user has actually worn the electronic device . To that end the electronic device may determine whether the electronic device is worn using the sensor module .

According to another embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may determine whether the electronic device is worn using a proximity sensor. Upon using a proximity sensor provided on the rear surface of the electronic device the proximity sensor on the rear surface of the electronic device may determine whether a portion of the user s body has approached the proximity sensor. Whether the electronic device is worn can be determined in the foregoing manner.

According to another embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may determine whether the electronic device is worn using a GSR sensor. The GSR sensor may determine whether a portion of the user s body has contacted or approached the GSR sensor according to an electric conductance measured by the GSR sensor. Based on the electrical conductance the electronic device can determine whether it is worn.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may determine whether the electronic device is worn using a temperature sensor. When using the temperature sensor the electronic device may determine a portion of the user s body has approached the temperature sensor according to temperature measurements. The electronic device can use the temperature measurements to determine whether it is worn. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may also determine which portion of the body the electronic device is being worn e.g. the user s wrist head arm ankle or face.

When the electronic device is being worn during operation the electronic device may determine a movement strength of the electronic device in operation and may determine whether the movement strength is less than a threshold for a predetermined time in operation . If the electronic device is being worn in operation and the movement strength maintains less than the threshold for the predetermined time in operation a biological signal for a resting state is measured operation and the process may come to an end.

Subsequently when the movement strength maintains less than the threshold for the predetermined time in operation which indicates that the user does not move the electronic device may perform resting state monitoring in operation .

As such upon meeting both the condition that the electronic device is being worn and the condition that the user does not move prior to performing the resting state monitoring the electronic device may perform such resting state monitoring in operation .

Since the electronic device is being worn on the user s wrist the electronic device may control the sensor module to measure the speed acceleration traveling direction or slope of the electronic device . The electronic device may determine the user s current state e.g. still running or walking and the posture of the user wearing the electronic device e.g. the state of moving using a traveling means based on sensing data measured through the sensor module of the electronic device . The sensor module may determine whether the user is resting by detecting where the electronic device is moving slow or the state in which the user moving while wearing the electronic device stops moving at least for a predetermined time based on the determined current state and the moving state. Here the user s posture refers to a position of the user s body when the electronic device is a body worn electronic device. The user s posture refers to a position of the user s head when the electronic device is an ear worn electronic device. The user s posture refers to a position of the user s wrist or ankle when the electronic device is a wrist worn electronic device.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure whether the user is in the resting state may be determined based on the user s current state moving state posture and the movement of the electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure a phone use history such as calling call receiving or texting during a previous predetermined time period may also be used to determine whether the user is in the resting state. For example even when predetermined conditions to determine the resting state such as the movement of the electronic device or the user s current state while the electronic device is worn the electronic device may trace the usage of the electronic device and determine that the user is not in a resting state when the user uses the functions such as calling receiving or gaming for a predetermined time or more. Additionally the electronic device may determine that the user is in a resting state after functions such as using the phone or gaming come to an end.

In one embodiment the electronic device measures biological signals e.g. the user s blood pressure blood flow body temperature respiratory rate oxygen saturation cardiorespiratory sound or blood sugar when the user is at rest. The electronic device determines that the user is at rest when the device is worn and there is little or no movement of the device. For example the sensor for measuring the heart rate is activated upon determining that the user is at rest resulting in substantially less power consumption.

Referring to the electronic device may determine a variation in movement strength of the electronic device through the sensor module while the electronic device is being worn on the user s body in operation . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may compute a movement value according to the movement of the electronic device using the acceleration sensor and may compute the movement strength of the electronic device using the computed movement value. Subsequently the electronic device may determine whether the computed movement strength is less than a first threshold in operation . When the movement strength is less than the first threshold the electronic device may determine whether the movement strength less than the first threshold lasts for a first time period or more in operation . When the movement strength is not less than the first threshold or when the movement strength less than the first threshold does not last for the first time period or more the electronic device may go back to operation .

It is noted that when the movement of the electronic device is less than the first threshold and for more than the first time period the foregoing would normally indicate that the user is at rest. However if this immediately follows a period of strenuous exercise there will be a significant increase in the heart rate as compared to a routine time when the movement of the electronic device being less than the first threshold for more than the first time period. To alleviate this the electronic device determines whether during a second time period prior to the first time period whether there was movement that unusually large or larger than a second threshold the second threshold larger than the first threshold.

Accordingly when there is a larger movement for a second time period before the first time period the heart rate recovery time may take longer as compared with when there is a smaller movement for the second time period. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the heart rate recovery time may be adjusted depending on the level of a previous movement. A method for adjusting the heart rate recovery time is described below with reference to .

When the movement strength less than the first threshold lasts for the first time period or more in operation the electronic device may determine whether the movement strength during the second time period before the first time period is a second threshold or more in operation . In other words the electronic device may determine whether there is a larger movement during the second time period before the first time period. By contrast unless the movement strength during the second time period before the first time period is the second threshold or more the electronic device may activate a sensor for measuring a heart rate in operation and store a heart rate measured in the resting state in operation . On the contrary when the movement strength during the second time period before the first time period is the second threshold or more the electronic device may return to operation . Here according to an embodiment of the present disclosure when the movement during the second time period is larger e.g. the second threshold or more the electronic device may be implemented to increase the duration of the first time period to recover the cardiac function when going back to operation . This is to increase the first time period if the user has recently engaged in strenuous exercise.

As described above according to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may measure the user s heart rates whenever meeting the condition that the state of the electronic device lasts within a predetermined threshold range for a predetermined time.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the user s heart rate may be measured a predetermined time after the user s state has been previously measured while the above condition is met. In other words the electronic device may return to operation a predetermined time after the user s heart rate has been measured and when the above conditions are met may result in the measurement of a heart rate in the resting state. As such the electronic device may re measure a heart rate when a predetermined time elapses after a previous time of heart rate measurement even when the resting state is determined to come back after the heart rate measurement thus reducing the number of times that the heart rate sensor is activated. Thus the energy consumption of the electronic device may be reduced.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure when the electronic device meets the above condition a predetermined time elapses since the previous heart rate measurement was done and the electronic device is positioned so that the user is highly likely to be in the resting state in light of the user s activity pattern and the electronic device may measure the user s heart rate.

The heart rate measured only once in the above manner or when there are multiple heart rates measured a weighted average of the multiple heart rates may be used as a resting heart rate depending on the state and position of the electronic device when the heart rates are measured.

The operation of is described below with reference to for better understanding. are graphs illustrating movement strengths according to embodiments of the present disclosure.

Referring to the horizontal axis X is a time axis and the vertical axis Y is an axis indicating movement strengths. Here the axis indicating movement strengths refers to a variation according to a direction of a force. For example it may be considered that when the direction of the force is a plus direction an acceleration acts in a plus direction of one of at least the x y and z axes of the acceleration sensor and an acceleration reacts in a minus direction. As shown in D indicates a time period for determining a resting state D a time during which a movement strength corresponding to the user s state or a movement of the electronic device is between a first threshold e.g. Level and a second threshold e.g. Level D a time period during which the movement strength is between the second threshold e.g. Level and a third threshold e.g. Level and D a time period during which the movement strength is between the third threshold e.g. Level and a fourth threshold e.g. Level . Here the width of each time period D to D may vary depending on the threshold range where the movement strength belongs.

For example the first threshold may be a reference value for determining a state in which the user does not move so that the electronic device substantially comes to a halt. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the first threshold may be a reference value to determine a state in which the user puts aside the electronic device without wearing it. In other words when the first threshold lasts for a predetermined time or more the first threshold may be used to determine such a state that the user places down the electronic device for e.g. recharging without wearing the device.

Further the second threshold may be a reference value to determine a state in which the user wearing the electronic device stops moving. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure although the second threshold is used as a reference to determine whether the sensor for heart rate measurement is activated for example any other various references such as the user s age or place or time of wearing the electronic device or other various environmental factors may be used as the reference value.

The third threshold may be a reference value to determine whether the state is a moving state that arises in a daily routine the fourth threshold may be a reference value to determine whether the state is a walking state and the fifth threshold may be a reference value to determine whether the state is a running state or engaging in strenuous exercise.

As shown in when the movement strength lasts for a predetermined time at the second threshold or less the sensor to measure a heart rate may be activated at the time that the predetermined time has elapsed. As such since the sensor module is activated only when required battery consumption is reduced.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure when the first time period is D the case where the movement strength during the second time period e.g. D before the first time period is exceeds the fourth threshold e.g. Level the profile may mean that the user has engaged in more strenuous activity compared with the profile where the movement strength during the second time period is within the second threshold e.g. Level range. Accordingly time period D should be longer for if the time period D during which movement exceeded the fourth threshold Level was long. Accordingly according to an embodiment of the present disclosure the minimum heart rate recover time as required before activating the sensor to measure a heart rate may be adjusted depending on the degree of a previous movement. In other words the time period corresponding to D may be varied depending on the duration of D to D. For example the width of D may be more reduced when the movement strength comes in the first threshold from the fourth threshold range than when coming in the first threshold range from the second threshold range.

Meanwhile although represents movement strengths specifically variations in acceleration the degree of a movement may also be recognized in a way as shown in . As shown in the waveform near 0 denotes the case where the acceleration is 0 and this may occur since the waveform fluctuating between a positive value and a negative value is accelerated in the plus direction by the law of action reaction and when put on a halt it is accelerated in the minus direction by the same law.

In Equation 1 Mag may denote an impulse and x y and z may denote x y and z values respectively of the acceleration sensor.

As set forth above the degree of a movement i.e. a movement strength may be determined either by a variation in acceleration as shown in or by the absolute magnitude of the acceleration sensor as shown in .

Referring to operations to are the same as operations to of and no detailed description thereof is repeated. However whether the movement strength is the second threshold or more during the second time period before the first time period may be determined in operation . When the movement strength during the second time period before the first time period is the second threshold or more the first time period may be adjusted considering the time required for the cardiac function to recover in operation . Here the adjusted first time period may be rendered to be longer than the previous first time period. In other words time period D is made longer. Here A denotes that operation of is associated with operation of and B denotes that operation of is associated with operation of .

Thus after activating the sensor to measure a heart rate in operation and storing a heart rate measured in the resting state in operation the electronic device may determine whether the movement strength during the third time period D after the first time period is less than the first threshold Level in operation . For example when the user does not move with the electronic device on during the first time period or does not wear the electronic device so that there is no movement of the electronic device the electronic device may determine that the moment is a resting time to measure a heart rate in the resting state.

However when the user thereafter takes off the electronic device there may be no movement of the electronic device . In such case the movement strength during the third time period may maintain less than the first threshold. Whether the electronic device is worn may be determined in operation to determine whether no movement occurs since the user does not actually wear the electronic device . When the movement strength during the third time period is less than the first threshold it may be determined in operation whether the electronic device is worn in the same manner as operations and of . Unless the electronic device is determined to be worn in operation the process may be terminated.

Referring to the electronic device may determine whether the sensor to measure a heart rate is activated in operation . The electronic device may determine whether the resting state comes up based on e.g. the user s moving state the movement of the electronic device or the current position and upon determining that the resting state comes up the electronic device may activate the sensor. Accordingly when the sensor is activated the electronic device may measure a heart rate in the resting state in operation and may obtain data to be stored together with the measured heart rate. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may obtain information on the current position of the electronic device when measuring the heart rate in operation . Subsequently the electronic device may store at least one item of place time of measurement and use history of application based on the current position information in association with the measured heart rate in operation . Thereafter the electronic device may determine whether there is a request for identifying the measured result from the user in operation . When there is the request for identifying the measured result the electronic device may display the measured heart rate result corresponding to the user s item selection in operation .

Since the electronic device is being worn on the user s wrist the electronic device may determine the time when the user is in the resting state based on the sensing data measured through the sensor module of the electronic device and may display a resultant heart rate measured in the resting state. The resultant heart rate measured in the resting state may be stored in association with the date or time or place of the measurement.

Accordingly when the user selects the date item as shown in the measured heart rate results in the resting state may be displayed per date on the electronic device . Accordingly when the user selects the time item as shown in the measured heart rate results in the resting state may be displayed per time period on the electronic device . Accordingly when the user selects the place item as shown in the measured heart rate results in the resting state may be displayed per place period on the electronic device . As such the measured heart rate results may be stored in association with date or time or place of measurement thereby leading to diversified applications. For example the count of measuring heart rates in the resting state may be set to differ depending on whether the electronic device is placed in home or work place. For example when the user is wearing the electronic device at home his activity may be less than that while he works. Thus a weighted frequency for heart rate measurement in the resting state may be increased considering such situation.

Meanwhile the heart rate result measured in the resting state may be utilized for healthcare services in various manners. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the heart rate result measured in the resting state may be used to display a variation in the user s body condition through a tendency in which heart rates change in the resting state.

Referring to when a graph with a measured heart rate of a larger width than that in a graph of heart rate results measured in the resting state and accumulated for a predetermined time period shows up the user may be notified of the graph . For example the variation history of heart rates in the resting state may be utilized to recommend cardiography or other medical checkup for users with a variation width exceeding a predetermined standard or may be used as auxiliary material to check up the users heart and body conditions.

Further in the case where the heart rates automatically measured in the resting state for a predetermined time period steadily decrease as compared with the reference graph the user s health condition may be determined to gradually get better. By contrast in the case where the user s heart rates in the resting state steadily increase the user s health condition may be determined to gradually worsen and its relevant feedback may be delivered to the user.

The difference between the time when the user enters the resting state based on the sensing data to measure a physical movement and the time when the user actually enters the resting state based on a heart rate may be used to determine the user s heart condition and whether there is a danger of sudden cardiac death. For example when the user with a disease history such as heart disease or cardiovascular disease enters the resting state but his heart rate is down to the resting state with a predetermined time or more of delay such information may be useful to calculate the probability of the user s sudden cardiac death. Further although it is determined that the user s movement is in the resting state while the user is wearing the electronic device when the user s heart rate measured is significantly higher or lower as compared with a normal resting heart rate it may be inferred that the user s body is in an abnormal condition. As such when an abnormal condition occurs in the user s body an alert may be externally transferred so that the heart rate information in the resting state may be utilized to early discover a possible emergency. Generally a sharply increased high heart rate may be observed if the user collapses e.g. due to cerebral infarction as compared with the resting heart rate measured in his routine during which he makes little or no movement. A very tiny heart rate may be observed if the user collapses e.g. due to a faint or heart attack as compared with the resting heart rate measured in his routine during which he makes little or no movement.

Further the heart rate result measured in the resting state may be utilized in various manners for healthcare services other than those described above. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure heart rate results measured in the resting state may be used to calculate calorie consumption through normalization of heart rates.

Referring to when biological information is configured the processor of the electronic device may perform control to transfer the configured biological information to another electronic device communicably connected with the electronic device. In other words the electronic device may display a screen indicating that a healthcare application is running. The electronic device may configure a measured heart rate result or measured heart rate result based information for an electronic device interworking with the electronic device and may provide the configured information to the electronic device . In response the electronic device may display a healthcare screen based on a result of monitoring a heart rate in the resting state which includes more detailed items as compared with those of the electronic device .

As shown in the heart rate result measured in the resting state may be used to calculate calorie consumption through normalization of heart rates and a content may be displayed according to an exercise mode based on the calorie consumption. That is the user s calorie consumption may be calculated based on a variation in heart rate and the user s movement. Generally as the user does a physical activity such as exercise his heart rate increases. The degree by which the heart rate has been increased may be used to calculate the degree of the user s physical activity and calorie consumption. Here although the user s heart rate is increased as he attends a physical activity the width by which the heart rate is increased may vary depending on the user s body conditions. Accordingly the degree of the user s physical activity and calorie consumption might not be exactly calculated only with the information that his heart rate has been increased. The information on the user s heart rate in the resting state may be used to more correctly calculate his calorie consumption and degree of physical activity.

The maximum heart rate during exercise per age is generally fixed. Therefore when the user s heart rate in the resting state is known an available heart rate variation range per user may be obtained and the degree by which the user s heart rate currently measured is positioned within the available heart rate variation range per user may be quantized and represented. As such the quantized heart rate variation may be used to derive a formula for the user s calorie consumption. Here the user s heart rate may be varied by exercise and may also be increased or decreased by strain discomfort sleep rest or other changes in his physical condition. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the causes for quantized heart rate variations may be differentiated using sensor information obtained from an inertia sensor a location sensor an air pressure sensor a GSR sensor or a temperature sensor and different calorie consumption formulas may apply to their causes thereby allowing the calorie calculation increased accuracy.

For example when the user is determined to be in a workout quantized heart rate variation based calorie consumption formulas may apply depending on the state and type of the exercise and when the user is determined to be in sleep a calorie consumption formula optimized for a sleep state may apply to increase the accuracy of calculation of calorie consumption.

The processor may control multiple hardware and software components connected to the processor by running e.g. an operating system or application programs and the processor may process and compute various data. The processor may be implemented in e.g. a system on chip SoC . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the processor may further include a graphic processing unit GPU and or an image signal processor. The processor may include at least some e.g. the cellular module of the components shown in . The processor may load a command or data received from at least one of other components e.g. a non volatile memory on a volatile memory process the command or data and store various data in the non volatile memory.

The communication module may have the same or similar configuration to the communication interface of . The communication module may include e.g. a cellular module a Wi Fi module a Bluetooth module a GNSS module e.g. a GPS module a Glonass module a Beidou module or a Galileo module an NFC module and a radio frequency RF module .

The cellular module may provide voice call video call text or Internet services through e.g. a communication network. The cellular module may perform identification or authentication on the electronic device in the communication network using a subscriber identification module e.g. the SIM card . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the cellular module may perform at least some of the functions providable by the processor . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the cellular module may include a communication processor CP .

The Wi Fi module the Bluetooth module the GNSS module or the NFC module may include a process for e.g. processing data communicated through the module. At least some e.g. two or more of the cellular module the Wi Fi module the Bluetooth module the GNSS module or the NFC module may be included in a single integrated circuit IC or an IC package.

The RF module may communicate data e.g. communication signals e.g. RF signals . The RF module may include e.g. a transceiver a power amplifier module PAM a frequency filter an LNA low noise amplifier or an antenna. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure at least one of the cellular module the Wi Fi module the Bluetooth module the GNSS module or the NFC module may communicate RF signals through a separate RF module.

The subscription identification module may include e.g. a card including a subscriber identification module and or an embedded SIM and may contain unique identification information e.g. an integrated circuit card identifier ICCID or subscriber information e.g. an international mobile subscriber identity IMSI .

The memory e.g. the memory may include e.g. an internal memory or an external memory . The internal memory may include at least one of e.g. a volatile memory e.g. a dynamic RAM DRAM a static RAM SRAM a synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM etc. or a non volatile memory e.g. a one time programmable ROM OTPROM a programmable ROM PROM an erasable and programmable ROM EPROM an electrically erasable and programmable ROM EEPROM a mask ROM a flash ROM a flash memory e.g. a NAND flash or a NOR flash a hard drive or solid state drive SSD .

The external memory may include a flash drive e.g. a CF compact flash memory an SD secure digital memory a micro SD memory a min SD memory an xD extreme digital memory a multi media card MMC or a memory Stick . The external memory may be functionally and or physically connected with the electronic device via various interfaces.

For example the sensor module may measure a physical quantity or detect an operational state of the electronic device and the sensor module may convert the measured or detected information into an electrical signal. The sensor module may include at least one of e.g. a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B an air pressure sensor C a magnetic sensor D an acceleration sensor E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G a color sensor H such as an red green blue RGB sensor a bio sensor I a temperature humidity sensor I an illumination sensor K or an ultra violet UV sensor M. Additionally or alternatively the sensing module may include e.g. an E nose sensor an electromyography EMG sensor an electroencephalogram EEG sensor an electrocardiogram ECG sensor an infrared IR sensor an iris sensor or a finger print sensor. The sensor module may further include a control circuit for controlling at least one or more of the sensors included in the sensing module. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may further include a processor configured to control the sensor module as part of the processor or separately from the processor and the electronic device may control the sensor module while the processor is in a sleep mode.

The input unit may include e.g. a touch panel a digital pen sensor a key or an ultrasonic input device . The touch panel may use at least one of capacitive resistive infrared or ultrasonic methods. The touch panel may further include a control circuit. The touch panel may further include a tactile layer and may provide a user with a tactile reaction.

The digital pen sensor may include e.g. a part of a touch panel or a separate sheet for recognition. The key may include e.g. a physical button optical key or key pad. The ultrasonic input device may sense an ultrasonic wave generated from an input tool through a microphone e.g. the microphone to identify data corresponding to the sensed ultrasonic wave.

The display e.g. the display may include a panel a hologram device or a projector . The panel may have the same or similar configuration to the display of . The panel may be implemented to be flexible transparent or wearable. The panel may also be incorporated with the touch panel in a module. The hologram device may make three dimensional 3D images holograms in the air by using light interference. The projector may display an image by projecting light onto a screen. The screen may be for example located inside or outside of the electronic device . In accordance with an embodiment the display may further include a control circuit to control the panel the hologram device or the projector .

The interface may include e.g. a high definition multimedia interface HDMI a universal serial bus USB an optical interface or a D subminiature D sub . The interface may be included in e.g. the communication interface shown in . Additionally or alternatively the interface may include a mobile high definition link MHL interface a secure digital SD card multimedia card MMC interface or IrDA standard interface.

The audio module may convert a sound into an electric signal or vice versa for example. At least a part of the audio module may be included in e.g. the input output interface as shown in . The audio module may process sound information input or output through e.g. a speaker a receiver an earphone or a microphone .

For example the camera module may be a device for capturing still images and videos and may include according to an embodiment of the present disclosure one or more image sensors e.g. front and back sensors a lens an image signal processor ISP or a flash such as an LED or xenon lamp.

The power manager module may manage power of the electronic device for example. Although not shown according to an embodiment of the present disclosure the power manager module may include a power management integrated circuit PMIC a charger IC or a battery or fuel gauge. The PMIC may have a wired and or wireless recharging scheme. The wireless charging scheme may include e.g. a magnetic resonance scheme a magnetic induction scheme or an electromagnetic wave based scheme and an additional circuit such as a coil loop a resonance circuit a rectifier or the like may be added for wireless charging. The battery gauge may measure an amount of remaining power of the battery a voltage a current or a temperature while the battery is being charged. The battery may include e.g. a rechargeable battery or a solar battery.

The indicator may indicate a particular state of the electronic device or a part e.g. the processor of the electronic device including e.g. a booting state a message state or recharging state. The motor may convert an electric signal to a mechanical vibration and may generate a vibrational or haptic effect. Although not shown a processing unit for supporting mobile TV such as a GPU may be included in the electronic device . The processing unit for supporting mobile TV may process media data conforming to a standard for digital multimedia broadcasting DMB digital video broadcasting DVB or mediaFlo .

Each of the aforementioned components of the electronic device may include one or more parts and a name of the part may vary with a type of the electronic device. The electronic device in accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one of the aforementioned components omit some of them or include other additional component s . Some of the components may be combined into an entity but the entity may perform the same functions as the components may do.

The program may include e.g. a kernel middleware an application programming interface API and or an application . At least a part of the program module may be preloaded on the electronic device or may be downloaded from an external electronic device e.g. the electronic devices and or healthcare server .

The kernel e.g. the kernel may include e.g. a system resource manager and or a device driver . The system resource manager may perform control allocation or recovery of system resources. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the system resource manager may include a process managing unit a memory managing unit or a file system managing unit. The device driver may include e.g. a display driver a camera driver a Bluetooth driver a shared memory driver a USB driver a keypad driver a Wi Fi driver an audio driver or an inter process communication IPC driver.

The middleware may provide various functions to the application through the API so that the application may efficiently use limited system resources in the electronic device or provide functions jointly required by applications . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the middleware e.g. middleware may include at least one of a runtime library an application manager a window manager a multimedia manager a resource manager a power manager a database manager a package manager a connectivity manager a notification manager a location manager a graphic manager or a security manager .

The runtime library may include a library module used by a compiler in order to add a new function through a programming language while e.g. the application is being executed. The runtime library may perform input output management memory management or operation on arithmetic functions.

The application manager may manage the life cycle of at least one application of e.g. the applications . The window manager may manage GUI resources used on the screen. The multimedia manager may grasp formats necessary to play various media files and use a codec appropriate for a format to perform encoding or decoding on media files. The resource manager may manage resources such as source code of at least one of the applications memory or storage space.

The power manager may operate together with e.g. a basic input output system BIOS to manage battery or power and provide power information necessary for operating the electronic device. The database manager may generate search or vary a database to be used in at least one of the applications . The package manager may manage installation or update of an application that is distributed in the form of a package file.

The connectivity manager may manage wireless connectivity such as e.g. Wi Fi or Bluetooth. The notification manager may display or notify an event such as a coming message appointment or proximity notification of the user without interfering with the user. The location manager may manage locational information on the electronic device. The graphic manager may manage graphic effects to be offered to the user and their related user interface. The security manager may provide various security functions necessary for system security or user authentication. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure when the electronic device e.g. the electronic device has telephony capability the middleware may further include a telephony manager for managing voice call or video call functions of the electronic device.

The middleware may include a middleware module forming a combination of various functions of the above described components. The middleware may provide a specified module per type of the operating system in order to provide a differentiated function. Further the middleware may dynamically omit some existing components or add new components.

The API e.g. the API may be a set of e.g. API programming functions and may have different configurations depending on operating systems. For example in the case of Android or iOS one API set may be provided per platform and in the case of Tizen two or more API sets may be offered per platform.

The application e.g. the application processor may include one or more applications that may provide functions such as e.g. a home a dialer an SMS MMS an instant message IM a browser a camera an alarm a contact a voice dial an email a calendar a media player an album or a clock a health care e.g. measuring the degree of workout or blood sugar or provision of environmental information e.g. provision of air pressure moisture or temperature information .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the application may include an application hereinafter information exchanging application for convenience supporting information exchange between the electronic device e.g. the electronic device and an external electronic device e.g. the electronic devices and . Examples of the information exchange application may include but is not limited to a notification relay application for transferring specific information to the external electronic device or a device management application for managing the external electronic device.

For example the notification relay application may include a function for relaying notification information generated from other applications of the electronic device e.g. the SMS MMS application email application health care application or environmental information application to the external electronic device e.g. the electronic devices and . Further the notification relay application may receive notification information from e.g. the external electronic device and may provide the received notification information to the user.

The device management application may perform at least some functions of the external electronic device e.g. the electronic device or communicating with the electronic device for example turning on off the external electronic device or some components of the external electronic device or control of brightness or resolution of the display and the device management application may manage e.g. install delete or update an application operating in the external electronic device or a service e.g. call service or message service provided from the external electronic device.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the application may include an application e.g. a healthcare application of a mobile medical device designated according to an attribute of the external electronic device e.g. the electronic devices and . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the application may include an application received from the external electronic device e.g. the healthcare server or electronic devices and . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the application may include a preloaded application or a third party application downloadable from a server. The names of the components of the program module according to the shown embodiment may be varied depending on the type of operating system.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure at least a part of the program module may be implemented in software firmware hardware or in a combination of two or more thereof. At least a part of the programming module may be implemented e.g. executed by e.g. a processor e.g. the processor . At least a part of the program module may include e.g. a module program routine set of instructions process or the like for performing one or more functions.

The term module may refer to a unit including one of hardware software and firmware or a combination thereof. The term module may be interchangeably used with a unit logic logical block component or circuit. The module may be a minimum unit or part of an integrated component. The module may be a minimum unit or part of performing one or more functions. The module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example the module may include at least one of application specific integrated circuit ASIC chips field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or programmable logic arrays PLAs that perform some operations which have already been known or will be developed in the future.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure at least a part of the device e.g. modules or their functions or method e.g. operations may be implemented as instructions stored in a computer readable storage medium e.g. in the form of a program module. The instructions when executed by a processor e.g. the processor may enable the processor to carry out a corresponding function. The computer readable storage medium may be e.g. the memory .

The computer readable storage medium may include a hardware device such as hard discs floppy discs and magnetic tapes e.g. a magnetic tape optical media such as compact disc ROMs CD ROMs and digital versatile discs DVDs magneto optical media such as floptical disks ROMs RAMs Flash Memories and or the like. Examples of the program instructions may include not only machine language codes but also high level language codes which are executable by various computing means using an interpreter. The aforementioned hardware devices may be configured to operate as one or more software modules to carry out exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure and vice versa.

Modules or programming modules in accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one or more of the aforementioned components omit some of them or further include other additional components. Operations performed by modules programming modules or other components in accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure may be carried out sequentially simultaneously repeatedly or heuristically. Furthermore some of the operations may be performed in a different order or omitted or include other additional operation s . The embodiments disclosed herein are proposed for description and understanding of the disclosed technology and does not limit the scope of the present disclosure. Accordingly the scope of the present disclosure should be interpreted as including all changes or various embodiments based on the technical spirit of the present disclosure.

As is apparent from the foregoing description according to an embodiment of the present disclosure the wearable electronic device may automatically measure a biological signal by detecting the user s resting state without the need of remaining still for the measurement.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure a sensor of the wearable electronic device may obtain a biological signal e.g. a result of measurement of a heart rate in a resting state where there is little variation in movement thus leading to reduced measurement errors due to tiny movement changes and resultantly enhanced accuracy.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the user s heart rate may be automatically measured based on the detection of a movement of his wearing electronic device while the user does his daily routines. Thus heart rates in the resting state may be consecutively measured and obtained.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure a sensor for measuring a heart rate may be activated when the user is determined to be in a resting state based on the detection of a movement of the electronic device worn on the user. Therefore more power savings are possible as compared with when the sensor is periodically activated.

