---

title: Interactive audio communication system
abstract: An interactive audio communication system includes a server for operating the interactive audio communications, a first computing device for operating a first application program, and a second computing device for operating a second application program, wherein the second application program includes the steps of receiving audio inputs from a user via the second microphone, transforming the audio inputs to text strings and transmitting the data of the audio inputs and/or the text strings to the first computing device, wherein the first application program running on the first computing device includes the steps of, receiving the data of the audio inputs and/or the text strings, displaying the text strings together with an audio mark if the text strings are received together with the data of the audio inputs on the first display.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09412394&OS=09412394&RS=09412394
owner: Jigen Labs, LLC
number: 09412394
owner_city: Torrance
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150309
---
The present invention relates to an interactive audio communication system and particularly relates to an interactive audio communication system designed to be operated via a communication network system suitable for vehicle drivers.

In recent years mobile devices so called smart phones having capabilities for sending and receiving voice text based messages images and video have become mainstream personal communication devices. Also GPS Global Positioning System devices have becomes standard devices installed in automotive vehicles.

Particularly SMS Short Message Service and E Mail have become increasingly important communication media for both the average person as well as business people. Commuting time in the United States of America is 101 minutes per day on average or more than 600 hours per year. In California for example a driver of a motor vehicle is prohibited from using a wireless telephone unless that telephone is designed and configured to allow hands free listening and talking.

Accordingly there is a great need for interactive audio communication systems for providing solutions for reading and responding to messages and emails in a vehicle without using the eyes and hands so that the driving time of vehicle can be effectively and or enjoyably used by anyone.

An object of the present invention is to overcome the above drawbacks. The system structure of the present invention will be realized by a system for operating interactive audio communications using a communication network including 

at least one server for providing an application programming interface API for operating the interactive audio communications on the communication network said at least one server being connected to the communication network 

a first computing device for operating a first application program using the API via the communication network the first computing device including 

a second computing device for operating a second application program using the API via the communication network the second computing device including 

wherein the second memory stores instructions in the second application program that when executed by the second processor causes the second processor to perform a second operation including the steps of 

wherein the first memory stores instructions in the first application program that when executed by the first processor causes the first processor to perform a first operation including the steps of 

According to an embodiment of the present invention described above the audio inputs are transformed into text strings and the text strings are transmitted to the other party together with the data of the original audio inputs. The audio mark is displayed together with the transmitted text strings on the screen when the original audio inputs are received by other party. Thus it is possible to reproduce original audio inputs by touching the audio mark when the audio inputs are transformed into strange words and it is difficult to understand the correct meaning of the message. Particularly when a proper noun in a foreign language is used in the audio inputs sometimes it is difficult to transform it into the correct English word. In such case this feature can be used to listen to the original audio inputs being sent together with the transformed text string instead of trying to decipher the strange word.

Another object of the present invention is to overcome the above drawbacks. The system structure of the present invention will be realized by a system for operating interactive audio communications using a communications network including 

at least one server for providing an application programming interface API for operating the interactive audio communications on the communication network said at least one server being connected to the communication network 

a first computing device for operating web site programs using the API the first computing device being arranged to communicate with said at least one server via the communication network the first computing device including 

a second computing device for operating application programs using the API via the communication network the second computing device including 

wherein the second memory stores instructions in the application programs that when executed by the second processor causes the second processor to perform a second operation including the steps of 

According to an embodiment of the present invention described above an operator of the first computing device for operating website receives the inquiry in the audio form and the text strings transformed from the inquiry in the audio form. Then the operator can listen to the inquiry in the audio form. At the same time the first display of the first computing device displays the text strings of the inquiry or the inquiry in the text form transmitted from the second computing device map associated with the location where the inquiry was placed and a time table including advertisement related to the inquiry using keywords extracted from the inquiry. Then the operator provides the answers to the inquiry. Since the advertisement being related to the inquiry can be provided it is possible to deliver advertisements effectively and timely aimed at target customers. Also it becomes possible to change time table of advertisement by using extracted keywords. Namely when the extracted keyword is included in the advertisement scheduled to air at a later time it is possible to change the schedule to timely deliver the advertisement.

Another object of the present invention is to overcome the above drawbacks. A system structure of the present invention will be realized by a system for operating interactive audio communications using a communication network including 

at least one server for providing an application programming interface API for operating the interactive audio communications on the communication network said at least one server being connected to the communication network 

a first computing device for operating a first application program using the API via the communication network the first computing device including 

a second computing device for operating a second application program using the API via the communication network the second computing device including 

wherein the first memory stores instructions in the first application program that when executed by the first processor causes the first processor to perform a first operation including the steps of 

wherein the second memory stores instructions in the second application program that when executed by the second processor causes the second processor to perform second operation including the steps of 

According to an embodiment of the present invention described above the selected items and or the to do items are transmitted from the first computing device to the second computing device located in the vehicle for example. Further the second computing device performs a function related to the selected items and or to do items for example performing a function for reading out loud the messages selected in the vehicle and responding to messages by inputting audio inputs. The audio input is transformed into a text string and the transformed text string is transmitted to the other party together with the data of original audio inputs. By using this feature the driver can work on the selected items and or the to do items in the vehicle without using the hands and eyes. As a result the driver can efficiently use driving time without using the hands and eyes. It is also possible to reproduce original audio inputs when the audio inputs are transformed into strange words and are therefore difficult to understand. Particularly when a proper noun in a foreign language for example is used in the audio inputs sometimes it is difficult to transform it into the correct English word.

In this specification when a single device or article is described it will be readily apparent that more than one device article may be used in place of a single device article. Similarly where more than one device or article is described it will be readily apparent that a single device article may be used in place of the more than one or article.

The functionality and or features of a device may be alternatively embodied by one or more other devices that are not explicitly described as having such functionality features.

In all of the disclosed embodiments any element used in an embodiment can be replaced with any elements equivalent thereto including those explicitly necessarily or inherently disclosed herein for the intended purposes. Further the present invention can equally be applied to apparatuses and methods.

Referring now to there is provided a block diagram depicting an architecture for implementing an interactive audio communication system according to an embodiment of the present invention. The interactive audio communication system is configured by a sever computing devices which include workstation class processing machine desktop computers laptop computers and tablet computers and a mobile device such as a mobile phone having capabilities of data communications and voice communications. The server the computing devices and mobile devices are arranged to communicate with each other via a communication network including internet. The server can be not only a one server but also multiple servers connected to the communication network .

According to an embodiment of the present invention a website service implemented by server is designed to provide services suitable for persons driving vehicles. The website services described here include three types of services a messaging services performed among multiple computing devices mobile devices and combinations thereof b searching services for answering questions from users of computing devices or mobile devices and c car queue services for organizing things to do in a vehicle. The website services described here are designed to be particularly useful for a driver of a vehicle when driving but are not limited to such activity. The website services described here can be used in communications between computing devices mobile devices and combinations thereof.

As described above there is a demand for interactive audio communication systems that provide solutions for reading and responding to messages and emails in a vehicle without using the eyes and hands. In order to realize the interactive audio communication system suitable for communications between a mobile device in a vehicle and a computing device outside the vehicle the communication needs to be performed without the user needing to read characters on a display screen of the mobile device in the vehicle and without the user needing to use the hands to respond to incoming messages while driving. To realize this hands free and eyes free operation inventor thinks that an interactive audio communication system that can be used without reading and inputting characters is one of the solutions to the problems. In other words if the mobile device in the vehicle receives a message in a text form the text based message is converted into an audio form and when responding to the message an audio input message is converted into text form to transmit the response from the mobile device to the other party.

As illustrated in when a driver of a vehicle tries to send messages from his or her mobile device to a person outside the vehicle for example speech inputs audio inputs signals of the driver inputted via a microphone of the mobile device and the inputted audio signals are converted to text strings using STT Speech To Text function implemented in the mobile device . On the other hand text based messages received by the mobile device in the vehicle transmitted from the devices outside the vehicle need to be converted into audio signals using the TTS Text To Speech function of the mobile device . Then the received text based messages will be read aloud via the speaker of the mobile device . The mobile device has capabilities of TTS Text to Sound conversion and STT Sound To Text conversion as a function of the mobile device such as a smartphone. In this embodiment TTS and STT functions equipped with the mobile device are used to convert text strings into audio siganls and vice versa. TTS and STT are also perfomed in the computing device and server as well.

Referring to there is provided an example of a screen of a mobile device referring to when used in the messaging service provided by the server of an embodiment of the present invention. In order to use the messaging service each user needs to register his or her name email address gender password telephone number birthday and address including the country where he or she lives to the server in advance. When logging into the server at least ID Identifications and his or her password are necessary. This example shows a screen of an application program running on a processor of the mobile device after the login process has been completed. The application program is designed to perform interactive audio communications which allows a plurality of persons to communicate with each other using the messaging service performed by the server .

In this example three users Ted Michelle and Go are enjoying a chat session using the messaging service performed by the server . Each user is allowed to input his or her messages in an audio form via a microphone or in a text form via an input device such as a mobile device or a computing device used in the chat. A message in audio form is converted into text strings by the STT Speech To Text function of the mobile device or the computing device and the original audio messages and the text strings are transmitted to other parties via the server . Each message including the audio form and text string is arranged to be stored in the server for a predetermined time period.

When the message is received by the other parties each device is arranged to display an audio mark for reproducing the original audio input together with the text strings in a message box The audio mark is designed to reproduce an audio file including original audio input signals received by the mobile device or the computing device . In this example text messages transmitted from Michelle are shown in a message box . In the message box infortune and EL oh EL seem to have been converted into strange text strings and sent to Ted and Go s devices via a server for providing the message service. The converted text strings Infortune on . . . and EL oh EL are transmitted with its audio files including original audio inputs from Michelle.

As shown in this EXAMPLE 1 still there are some possibilities when the audio inputs are not correctly converted into the correct text strings due to technical limitations of STT Speech to text technologies currently available. In these cases the audio mark can be used to reproduce original audio inputs by touching the audio mark so that a receiving user can understand the correct meaning of the messages. The audio mark does not appear in a message box which indicates that no audio file of the message is attached to the message.

In this example illustrated in message box indicates a message to be sent from Go s device. The inputted text string Interesting can be converted into an audio form at the devices of the receiving parties so that if for example Ted or Michelle is driving a vehicle the text message is read out loud via a speaker in the vehicle In this embodiment the user can setup the device to hear the messages in audio form when text based messages are received. Then the device automatically reads out loud the text messages without the need to touch audio mark . Thus the user can receive and understand the text based messages without reading the messages.

This example shows a messaging service of a chat session held among multiple people. However the notation of the audio mark as described above can be applied not only to messaging services but also email services news delivery services and the like which include text based information so that the information is read out loud to realize eyes free and hands free operation when receiving such information.

In the message box in a SEND button for sending a message and a TALK button for recording a message into the memory of the device are displayed. The SEND button is designed to send messages by touching the SEND button after typing or recording messages to be sent to the other party. Talk button is designed to record audio input messages into the memory of the device used by the user. When touching the TALK button for less than a certain amount of time for example 0.3 seconds audio input messages are recorded into the memory for a predetermined amount of time for example 10 seconds or until the audio input message ends. The TALK button can also be designed to start recording the audio input messages from the user into the memory and to stop recording when the TALK button is next touched. Those functions of the TALK button are designed in application programs running on the processor of the device used with messaging services.

The TALK button can also be designed in the application programs running on the processor of the device to record audio input messages from the user of the device together with location information including latitude and longitude where the device is located by touching the TALK button for a time period not less than 0.3 seconds and not more than 3.0 seconds. The user preferences regarding whether location data is transmitted together with the input message can be selected by the user. The location information can be linked to map database so that other useful applications can be performed. This will be described later.

Another embodiment of the present invention is to send a predetermined voice message instead of an own voice message. The predetermined voice message is a prerecorded short audio message such as Yeah No I ll be back or You don t know the power of the dark side which may have been made popular in a movie and spoken by a famous actor actress or character instead of in one s own voice. Those predetermined voice messages are designed to be downloaded from the server to the mobile device or the computing devices free of charge or for some fee. These predetermined voice messages can be presented and sent out instead of one s own voice when responding to incoming messages. This is a useful function when the user wishes to be entertaining or remain anonymous. Another embodiment associated with the messaging service is a voice filter for changing the frequency characteristic of the audio input from the user of the device. The user can use this filter by selecting one of the filters presented on the screen of the device so that the original voice can be changed to another voice having a different frequency characteristic when sending voice messages.

Example 2 describes an interactive audio communication system for providing a search service for users having a mobile device or a smartphone in a vehicle or for a user having a smartphone outside the vehicle. In EXAMPLE 2 the user is required to register his or her name and a password to open his or her account in advance on a website for operating the search service in the same way as described in EXAMPLE 1. In EXAMPLE 2 the search service is provided by one of the clients of the server or by a server as a part of the function thereof. In order to register as an operator of the search service with the server at least a name a password and a country code where the search service is operated need to be registered to the server in advance. The server receives inquiries from a user using the computing device or the mobile device . The website for operating the search service can be provided by one of the computing devices connected to the server via the communication network as described above.

In order to use the search service of an embodiment of the present invention the user needs to send his or her ID Identification and password to log in to his or her account and then send an inquiry or request in an audio form and or text form his or her positioning information including latitude and longitude the direction in which the user is moving and various information based on the user s account permissions that the user wants to give an operator of the search service. As for the location information a user can use the GPS data of the vehicle. As for the direction it is calculated by using the location information several seconds ago and current location information. The user can use a mobile device to send an inquiry to the operator of the search service. The user can also use a mobile device in a vehicle or a computing device outside the vehicle to send an inquiry to the operator of the search service.

For example when looking for an Italian restaurant for a lunch a user in a vehicle sends an inquiry such as is there any good Italian restaurant for lunch to the operator of the search service by inputting the inquiry in an audio form to the mobile device . Here the user inputs the inquiry in an audio form via the microphone or in a text form by inputting the inquiry using the keyboard of the device. When the inquiry in an audio form is converted into text strings the inquiry in the audio form and text strings or the inquiry in the text form are transmitted to the server . Then the server saves the inquiry and transmits the inquiry to an operator who has made an inquiry download request. Then the operator of the search service listens to the inquiry in the audio form. In response to the received inquiry the operator conducts a search or an action to provide answers or a response to the inquiry from the user by using relevant data sources or other functionality. A guideline for the operator for providing answers to an inquiry sets that an operator should answer an inquiry within two minutes in this example but is not limited to two minutes. In almost all cases it may be answered in up to five minutes.

Referring to there is provided an example of a console screen of a computing device used for providing the search service it is referred to as a portal site hereinafter . The console screen is designed to be used by the operator who plays a role for receiving inquires from users or participants for example a user of mobile devices in and providing the answers or responses to the inquiries. In this embodiment the operator of the portal site downloads inquiries from the server by touching the LOAD NEXT button as described previously.

Here not only one portal site for operating the search service but also multiple portal sites can be operated simultaneously. The console screen includes a user inquiry area for displaying the user inquiry and associated information such as the name age and address. The console screen includes a map area for displaying a map which is related to the location information of the user who places the inquiry to the search service and an advertisement area for display advertisement information to be sent to users together with the answers. When the user sends the inquiry in an audio form the audio mark is displayed adjacent to the text string. Then the operator can listen to the inquiry in the audio form.

When sending the inquiry from the user operating system information of the computing device of the user is transmitted together with the inquiry so that the operator can identify the computing device used by the user. In other words the operator can identify what kind of computing device is being used based on the operating system information. Then the type of computing device for example a mark showing a smartphone or a tablet may be displayed in the user inquiry area .

As shown in there is provided a remaining time area for showing the remaining time to answer the inquiry in the left side of the console screen in this embodiment. The color of characters showing the remaining time is arranged to change from the first color for example black to the second color for example red when the remaining time is up. In another embodiment the color of the characters showing the remaining time is arranged to change from the first color to the second color prior to the end of the remaining time so that the operator knows he or she should answer the question within the time limit. The countdown of the remaining time starts when the inquiry is received at the server . In another embodiment the countdown to the end of the remaining time starts when the inquiry is received by an operator of the portal site. The user of the search service can rate the operator s performance based on the satisfaction level of the user. The rating factor of the operator shows the average rating level calculated using past rating factors of the operator. The rating factor is displayed adjacent to the remaining time area in this embodiment so that the operator is motivated to provide better answers to the user who rates the performance of the operator.

The answer to the inquiry is typed by the operator in a short sentence and text based answers are transmitted by touching the SEND button from the portal site providing the search services after conducting the necessary search operations. Then the mobile device of the user receives the text based answers and converts them into audio form by applying TTS so that the answer can be read out loud in the vehicle. When the inquiry cannot be answered or the inquiry is out of the scope of the service as specified by the service s rules the operator can use the REJECT button to respond the inquiry from the user using a template message. The operator may also input the answers or responses to the inquiry in the audio form instead of typing the answers or response using keyboard.

It is also possible to convert the inputted answers in a text form into an audio form using the TTS function of the portal site. When transforming the text string into audio form in the background to see if the answer in the text form is correctly transformed at the device of the user and when there is a word which is not found in the TTS dictionary the word is marked with a visible sign on the display. Then this information is transmitted to the server and saved in the database in the server so that this word can be used to improve the capability of the TTS dictionary.

In this example as described above the location information including the direction in which the user is moving is transmitted from the user. The map displayed on the map area is the map which is selected using the location information received with the inquiry from the user. The search operation process running on the computing device operating the portal site is arranged to pick up keywords and location information from the inquiry and selects POIs Point of Interest based on the picked up keywords. The selected POIs are displayed on the map area . For example when the inquiry from the user includes keywords related to restaurants for lunch then several lunch restaurants are picked as displayed. The restaurants in the area where the user is heading to can be selected according to the location and the direction information.

In this embodiment as illustrated in POI information which includes the name of the POI address and telephone number are displayed. The telephone number is a link to the telephone application program so that the user can call the POI using the mobile device without inputting the telephone number when the answers are transmitted to the mobile device .

It is also possible to select the map using keywords used in the inquiry from the user. For example when address information including street name city name or zip code the portal site web site programs running on the computer device operating the portal site and or server can pick up the map information from such keywords in the inquiry.

An audio mark is displayed adjacent to the inquiry in the inquiry area . In this example the user inputted his her inquiry in an audio form. The inquiry in the audio form is transformed into text strings using STT function in the mobile device and transmitted to the computing device operating the search services. Then the operator of the search service can hear the inquiry in the audio form and the inquiry including the text strings is displayed on the inquiry area together with the audio mark .

In this example the current inquiry is displayed in the inquiry area and previous inquiries from the same user are displayed below the current inquiry. Also the profile of the user who placed the inquiry is displayed in the lower portion of the user inquiry area .

In this example two advertisements and and are scheduled to be sent out as illustrated in . However the number of advertisements is not limited to two. It may be none or more advertisements. In this example advertisement is scheduled to be broadcast earlier than advertisement . However earlier advertisements can be displayed below the later scheduled advertisement. The advertisement is transmitted together with the answer to the inquiry to the user who is using the search service provided by the computing device or the server . It may be possible to answer the inquiry without advertisement if the user has a membership pays a membership fee of the search service or under other circumstances.

Further the web site programs running on the computing device for operating the search service are designed to select a suitable advertisement which seems to satisfy the needs of the user by correlating the contents of the advertisement and the extracted keywords picked up from the inquiry from the user. Then the web site programs running on the computing device for operating the search services determines to see if there are any correlations between the picked up keywords in the inquiry and the contents of any scheduled advertisements. If there are any such keyword correlations the advertisement schedule can be changed to give priority to the appropriate advertisement so that effective advertisement targeting for the user can be realized.

For example when the contents of an inquiry relate to the topic of an Italian restaurant for lunch and the advertisement is related to the advertisement of Italian restaurant the web site programs running on the search service determine that advertisement is transmitted together with the answer to the inquiry instead of transmitting advertisement . The operator of the search service also may change the time table of the advertisement so that advertisement is replaced by advertisement . In this instance the location of the user and the Italian restaurant that provides the advertisement may be displayed on the map area on the browser screen .

In the example the audio input is converted into text strings using the STT function of the mobile device. However the user outside the vehicle may prefer to send an inquiry by inputting text via a keyboard on the screen. In this case an inquiry in text form can be sent to the website for operating the search service. The user can select the input method of the audio input or text input by touching a select buttons .

On the screen inquiry logs including time and date when the inquiry was sent are displayed together with the DETAIL button for showing the contents of the inquiry and answers thereof and a TRASH CAN mark for deleting the log. shows one of the example screens when the DETAIL button is touched. As illustrated in contents of the inquiry or request and the answers or responses for the inquiry and POI data are displayed. In this example the address information contact information such as telephone numbers and email information are linked respectively to the map telephone and email functions of the mobile device . Further a rating factor for the operator providing the answers is displayed. When touching the NEXT button the detail data of the next log can be displayed. When touching the PREVIOUS button the detail data of previous log can be displayed.

Back to the user of the mobile device inputs the inquiry in the audio form via the microphone of the mobile device to record the inquiry in the audio form in the memory of the mobile device by using the TALK button on the screen. When the TALK button is touched the color of the center portion of the TALK button changes to red for example to show that the audio inputs are being recorded. PLAY button for playing back the recorded audio inputs and DELETE button for deleting the recorded audio inputs are also displayed in the inquiry area . The STT Speech to Text function of the mobile device converts the audio form into text strings. Then the inquiry including the text form and audio form is transmitted to the computing device for providing the search service when the user touches the SEND button . The inquiry is saved by the server in this embodiment. As described above the user can input a text inquiry instead of an inquiry in the audio form. In this case when this inquiry is received by the portal site performing the search service no audio mark is displayed on the console screen of the portal site for performing the search service.

The same system configurations used in the search service described in EXAMPLE 2 can be used in a following embodiment of a call center application. Call centers or technical support centers of the products or services receive questions and inquiries from users associated with such products or services. However in general it takes time to reach a representative to obtain the answers to questions. Also initial automated announcements of call centers ask users to use a website or email to send questions.

By using the same infrastructure described in EXAMPLE 2 the user sends questions or inquiries in an audio form from the computing devices such as mobile devices or computing devices . Then the mobile device for example converts the audio inputs from the user to text strings and sends the question including an audio form and text string to the call or technical support center which includes a portal site for operators answering questions regarding the product for example . Then the operator of the portal site for answering questions answers the questions in audio form or in text form typing and the answers are transmitted to the mobile device of the user. The mobile device of the end user converts the answer in the text form into audio form so that the user can obtain the answers to the questions without frustration. In other words a system including questions in voice messages and answers in text stings or in an audio form can be realized which eliminates many current problems associated with the operation of call centers for answering questions from the customers. Since the user can make questions in an audio form and obtain the answers in a text form or an audio from this system can be easily operated by users who are not familiar with or do not want to do any typing.

Next a car queue service performed by the server which is an embodiment of the present invention will be described using . The car queue service performed by the server includes functions for organizing items to do in a vehicle while driving such as call the business colleagues send SMS to a secretary for meetings scheduled read unread messages and prepare brain storming ideas . In order to use this service the user needs to log in to the car queue service provided by the server by inputting his or her ID Identification and password in the same way as other services.

In this example a user creates items to do in the vehicle using a car queue application program running on a computing device such as a smartphone or a personal computer before leaving home and getting them in the car either by text input or speech input via a microphone attached to the computing device. Then the car queue application program transmits the to do items to the server from the computing device. When the user starts the car queue application running on an infotainment system in the vehicle the to do items are displayed on the screen of the infortaiment system.

These to do items are inputted via text input from a keyboard or speech inputs audio input signals from a microphone of the smartphone . When the speech input is performed STT Speech To Text functions are applied to the speech inputs to convert the audio signals to text strings. Then the text string and original audio input signals are transmitted to the infotainment system in the vehicle via the server . In this instance the text string and the audio signals are stored in the server for a predetermined time period.

When the user selects call Peter for example the infotainment system calls Peter by picking up Peter s phone number and automatically calling Peter without any need to input the number allowing the user to talk with Peter in the vehicle. Then the user selects text Geogia re store . The user inputs his or her message by speaking the message to the microphone of the infotainment system. Then the STT function equipped in the infotainment system converts the speech inputs audio input signals into text strings. The text string and or original audio message are transmitted to Geogia through server . When receiving a response in a text form from Geogia the text messages is read out loud by using the TTS function of the infotainment system.

The speech inputs of the user are recorded in the memory of the infotainment system equipped in the vehicle. For example when the user selects Brainstorming idea for event in the vehicle and starts speaking his or her ideas to the microphone of the infortaiment system of the vehicle the audio inputs from the microphone can be recorded in the memory of the infortaiment system. Then all data is transmitted to the server and stored in the memory of the server.

When having arrived at the office the user wants to continue working on Brainstorming idea for event the user starts the car queue application program on the computer at the office. Then the user logs in to the service to work on Brainstorming idea for event . These examples described above are a part of the car queue service implemented by the server .

When the human interface device is powered on a Bluetooth device installed in the human interface device starts and the plug in application on the mobile device associated with the web service provided by the server is designed to start running on the mobile device . The human interface device may be arranged to communicate with the mobile device using WiFi or wired communication technology such as USB cables in this embodiment.

The human interface device has a power button for turning on the human interface device a souce button for selecting a service provided by the server tuning scanning buttons and for tuning the station being provided by the server preset buttons for accessing favorite stations audio play control buttons and for controlling audio signals such as play stop fast forward rewind and playback for a certain time period and skip audio for a certain time period a bookmark button for bookmarking some contents associated with the selected source a talk button for recording speech input or voice memos spoken by the user and an OK button for playing back the speech input or voice memos for reviewing the contents thereof.

The bookmark button is characterized to bookmark information of the sources provided by the server and to obtain tag information associated with the bookmarked information when pushing the bookmark button while the audio signals from the selected source is reproduced. The tag information of an embodiment of the present invention includes a text string including a URL Uniform Resource Locator an email address and or telephone numbers and addresses of the locations associated with the bookmarked information. The tag information may also include titles of music or songs if the content is music or songs.

The tag information which has been obtained by touching the bookmark button is transferred to the memory in the mobile device and stored therein. The memorized tag information is used later when the user needs to review the information of the source again.

Talk button is used when the user wants to send voice messages to other parties via the communication network . When touching the talk button for less than 0.3 seconds for example audio inputs from a microphone are recorded in the memory in the mobile device for a predetermined time period for example 10 seconds. Then computer programs running on the mobile device transmit the memorized audio data together with associated information such as location information of the user of the mobile device and time information when it is transmitted. When the talk button is pushed for a predetermined time period for example not less than 0.3 seconds and not more than 3 seconds the audio inputs from the user via the microphone is recorded in the memory so that the user can review the message before transmitting it a memo function . In this instance a current time when the talk button is pushed and current location information latitude and longitude is recorded together with the audio inputs into the memory of the mobile device . The talk button may be designed to have another function as follows. When touched the programs running on the mobile computer starts recording the audio inputs from the microphone and stops recording the audio inputs when the talk button is next touched.

The human interface device has a speaker for outputting the audio outputs of the mobile device and an information display for displaying the context of the selected source which include source names such as inbox stations and to be selected by the user a new message receipt indicator time information and a battery level indicator for the battery of the human interface device .

Messages in an audio form is converted into text strings using STT and both data including the audio form and converted text strings are transmitted to the other party together with the time and location information. The text strings in an incoming email and SMS can be read out loud using TTS. By using these features of an embodiment of the invention the driver of a vehicle can work on text based emails and SMSs to read and reply without using the hands and eyes. As a result the driver can more efficiently or enjoyably use driving time and time wasted in traffic.

