---

title: Automatic integrated escalation in a unified messaging system
abstract: A user is identified based at least in part on a user identification designation associated with an incoming communication. A message recipient is then determined based at least in part on the identified user and one or more address books associated with message recipients by comparing the user identification designation to one or more entries in the one or more recipient databases. The incoming communication is routed to the determined message recipient. Escalation procedures are implemented up to a configured level in the recipient organization based on various criteria. As messages are escalated and deposited in mailboxes associated with the determined message recipients, the determined message recipients are notified of the deposited messages.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09130895&OS=09130895&RS=09130895
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, L.P.
number: 09130895
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150327
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 460 758 filed Aug. 15 2014 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 762 634 filed Feb. 8 2013 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 837 707 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 582 374 filed on Oct. 20 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 396 203 the entire disclosures of which are incorporated by reference herein.

The present disclosure relates generally to message routing and more particularly to automatic escalation in a unified messaging platform environment.

Unified messaging is the integration of different streams of communication e.g. email voicemail short message service SMS fax etc. into a single unified message store e.g. a unified messaging platform accessible from a variety of user devices.

Call centers are centralized offices used for the purpose of receiving and transmitting large volumes of requests by telephone or other communication devices. Call centers are used to receive incoming communication e.g. audio calls video calls emails and faxes to an organization e.g. a company corporation business unit etc. . For example call centers may be used as a customer service center staffed by multiple customer service representatives CSRs . Each representative may be responsible for one or more customer accounts and or types of customer issues e.g. account termination maintenance billing disputes etc. .

However a call center is generally associated with a single telephone number or a limited number of telephone numbers. That is an organization may have a customer service number e.g. 1 800 CUSTOMR that all customers call regardless of the reason for calling. Incoming calls are then routed based on operator routing hierarchical customer service representative response automated speech recognition systems or the like. If a particular customer service representative responsible for the incoming call is unavailable the customer may be invited to leave a message in the form of a voicemail such as in the system described in co pending and concurrently filed U.S. Pat. No. 8 209 386 entitled Message Routing and Determining a Message Recipient in a Unified Messaging System .

In a unified messaging platform environment other communications methods such as email and facsimiles are also used to contact customer service representatives. In call centers using a single or limited incoming telephone numbers these emails and facsimiles may be deposited along with the voicemails as described above.

Customers who have sent voice facsimile emails and or other messages for a particular customer service representative may experience poor quality of service when the customer service representative is unavailable for a significant period or if the customer s needs are urgent. That is the customer may not receive a timely response to their message because the message has not been received by any customer service representative.

The present disclosure relates generally to message handling and more particularly to message handling in a unified messaging platform environment.

In one embodiment a user is identified based at least in part on a user identification designation associated with an incoming communication. A message recipient is then determined based at least in part on the identified user and one or more databases and or address books associated with message recipients by comparing the user identification designation to one or more entries in the one or more recipient databases and or address books. The user is associated with one of a plurality of message recipients according to a predetermined or random assignment algorithm if no prior association is determined. The incoming communication is routed to the determined message recipient.

A message for a live communication attempt e.g. voice call is deposited in a mailbox associated with the determined message recipient if the determined message recipient is not available. Other non live communication messages such as email and facsimile are deposited into the recipient s mailbox. Only the determined message recipient may be notified of the deposited message. In certain circumstances such as when an intended original recipient is not available or does not handle such a deposited message each such deposited message may be further routed to other appropriate recipients based on the embodiments being disclosed in the following.

These and other advantages of the disclosure will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art by reference to the following detailed description and the accompanying drawings.

Call center includes one or more customer service representatives . . . N. In at least one embodiment customers N are connected to and or are in communication with call center and one or more customer service representatives N using communication network and or communication network . The designation N is used only to indicate multiplicity of numbers and the number of customers N may be different than the number of customer service representatives N.

Customer service representatives CSRs N are in communication with UM platform which includes UM interface UM controller and or UM database . Communication between UM interface and customer service representatives N may be controlled by a UM controller . UM controller and or UM interface may also control and or be in communication with UM database . As described herein in communication with describes connection between components e.g. customers N UM interface customer service representatives N UM controller UM database etc. that can transmit signals and or information to each other using any appropriate protocol and combination of wired and or wireless communication techniques e.g. VOIP wired IP etc. . In at least one embodiment such communication may be through and or with a telephone and or packet network as is known. For example in some embodiments CSRs N may communicate with e.g. access the UM platform and their messages using telephone user interface TUI and or one or more computer programs. Originators of voice or video calls that are not answered by any customer service representative N may choose to leave messages into the UM database of the UM platform as mediated by the UM interface and UM controller . Other message types for example e mail and facsimile messages that may be addressed to the common customer service representatives N may also be deposited into the UM database as managed by the UM controller and or UM interface .

Call center and or UM platform may be constructed using any appropriate combination of physical components and special purpose computers configured to carry out the specific functions described below. Additionally various components of UM platform may be combined and or may have functionality split over various components. For example UM interface may include a database configured as UM database and a controller configured as UM controller . In another example UM controller may be implemented in a program executed at a remote server that controls and routes calls and messages to UM interface and or customer service representatives N.

Customers N are users of the call center using any appropriate communications device e.g. telecommunications device telephone mobile telephone email capable device facsimile machine etc. to communicate with call center and or customer service representatives N. UM platform is based on a unified messaging system. As such UM platform supports voice email and facsimile message types in a unified fashion. For example subscribers to e.g. users of UM platform such as customer service representatives N of call center may receive and deposit messages of any type in an associated mailbox or associate mailboxes of the UM platform . In this way UM platform is accessed via one or more networks e.g. telephone packet etc. to receive and handle messages based on incoming data. The UM platform may also initiate transmission of messages such as reminder messages.

UM interface is any appropriate server or server like device or devices that can receive information from customers N and can send information to and receive information from customer service representatives N and customers N. That is UM interface coordinates e.g. receives and or stores communications from customers N who wish to access the call center and customer service representatives N. In at least one embodiment UM interface includes a telephone user interface TUI program. In another embodiment UM interface may also include the communication capability to offer its users support for multimedia communication sessions to store video messages. UM interface may be implemented as a computer such as the computer discussed below with respect to . That is UM interface may include and or be a computer adapted to perform the methods described below with respect to and . As described above UM interface may be coupled to or include UM controller and or UM database .

Customer service representatives N are local and or remotely connected representatives of an organization e.g. customer care representatives call center support staff etc. using any appropriate communications device e.g. telecommunications device computer with communication software firmware telephone mobile telephone email capable device facsimile machine etc. to communicate with call center and or customers N.

UM controller is any appropriate module that can send information to and receive information from UM interface customers N and customer service representatives N. That is UM controller coordinates communications between UM interface and customer service representatives N in accordance with the methods described herein. In at least one embodiment UM interface may implement an application programming interface API . In another embodiment UM controller may handle processing of messages such as recorded voice and or vide calls e mails and facsimiles. In an alternative embodiment UM controller is a remote web server or similar device capable of performing the functions described below. In either embodiment UM controller may be implemented as a computer such as the computer discussed below with respect to . That is UM controller may include and or be a computer adapted to perform the methods described below with respect to .

UM database is any appropriate database such as the database described below with respect to . In at least one embodiment UM database is a database that can contain data to correlate information e.g. invoice number telephone number trouble ticket etc. related to customers N with an associated customer service representative N. The database described below with respect to is an example of the correlations and or associations that may be used to implement the methods described below with respect to . Portions of database may be associated with or related to or used with one or more address books not shown of call center .

Communications to and from UM platform and customer service representatives N and customers N may be through the analog communication network e.g. one or more telephone networks and or packet communication network e.g. a private local area network a private wide area network and or the public network known as the Internet . The interface components of UM platform to the analog communication network and packet communication network are not shown but may be implemented as part of UM interface in at least one embodiment. In at least one embodiment email messages and multimedia e.g. voice and or data can be transmitted through the packet communication network and facsimile messages can be transmitted through the analog communication network and or packet communication network . Various communications components and network connections are not shown in and are apparent to persons skilled in the art. Communication network and communication network may be implemented using any past present and future protocols and such technologies would not be excluded from the scope of this present disclosure. For example communication network may be implemented using one or more protocols such as GSM wimax 802.11a 802.11g 802.11n 802.3 Ethernet leased lines and other technologies. Communication network and communication network may each consist of one or more networks. For example communication network may include a GSM network for wireless communications to and from one or more customers N one or more wired connections to one or more customers N and have one or more wired connections to call center and the customer service representatives N. Detailed components such as possible additional networks and components associated with call center and customers N are not shown.

Computer contains devices that form a controller including a processor that controls the overall operation of the computer by executing computer program instructions which define such operation. The computer program instructions may be stored in a storage device e.g. magnetic disk database etc. and loaded into memory when execution of the computer program instructions is desired. Thus applications for performing the herein described method steps such as those described below with respect to method are defined by the computer program instructions stored in the memory and or storage and controlled by the processor executing the computer program instructions. The computer may also include one or more network interfaces for communicating with other devices via a network. The computer also includes input output devices that enable operator interaction with the computer . Computer and or processor may include one or more central processing units read only memory ROM devices and or random access memory RAM devices. One skilled in the art will recognize that an implementation of an actual computer could contain other components as well and that the computer of is a high level representation of some of the components of such a computer for illustrative purposes.

According to some embodiments of the present disclosure instructions of a program e.g. controller software may be read into memory such as from a ROM device to a RAM device or from a LAN adapter to a RAM device. Execution of sequences of the instructions in the program may cause the computer to perform one or more of the method steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry or integrated circuits may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions for implementation of the processes of the present disclosure. Thus embodiments of the present disclosure are not limited to any specific combination of hardware firmware and or software. The memory may store the software for the computer which may be adapted to execute the software program and thereby operate in accordance with the present disclosure and particularly in accordance with the methods described in detail below. However it would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that the present disclosure as described herein could be implemented in many different ways using a wide range of programming techniques as well as general purpose hardware sub systems or dedicated controllers.

Such programs may be stored in a compressed uncompiled and or encrypted format. The programs furthermore may include program elements that may be generally useful such as an operating system a database management system and device drivers for allowing the portable communication device to interface with peripheral devices and other equipment components. Appropriate general purpose program elements are known to those skilled in the art and need not be described in detail herein.

Database may be collection of data that is stored in a computer e.g. computer of wherein a database management system DBMS may consult the database to answer queries e.g. to select data . Data retrieved in answer to queries become information that can be used to make decisions may precipitate actions or may be displayed to a customer service representative N.

For simplicity database is depicted and described in the embodiment of as a relational database. In the same or alternative embodiments all or part of database may configured according to another database model such as a hierarchical model a table model a network model an object model an associative model etc.

Data shown in for database be arranged and represented in any suitable fashion. For example organization chart may be represented graphically as a tree but may be implemented as a table . For example in a tabular implementation each node of the shown organization chart tree may represent a customer service representative and be implemented by a row where a column of that row may be used to refer to another customer service representative where customer service representative would be represented by a tree node above e.g. a supervisor or other customer service representative . As an example customer service representative with a CSR ID value of 1 may be a superior of a customer service representative with a CSR ID value of 4 as shown in the tree representation of the organization chart . Tables may be data tables as is known in the use of databases. It is understood that any number of tables and or relational charts may be used to store and correlate data. Similarly though referred to as tables tables are a visual representation of a database relation and any appropriate implementation of data storage and correlation may be used. As such tables especially those related to organizational chart may be an address book or a portion of an address book and may be used by customer service representatives N. Such address books may be address books of the call center address books of external organizations e.g. address books associated with customers N etc. or any combination thereof. Other data that is not shown may be stored in conjunction with the data shown in . The exemplary data that is shown in is used to identify a first customer service representative among the customer service representatives N where the customer service representative is responsible for handling the incoming message.

Tables may be a set of data elements organized using rows and columns which may be accessed via the DBMS e.g. as in a look up table . The columns may be identified by title e.g. Incoming Source Information and Transaction ID or another identifier. The rows may be identified by the values e.g. 973 555 1111 1 3 etc. appearing in particular columns. In some embodiments rows may also have titles or other identifiers.

The list of incoming source information may include data values associated with incoming messages to UM call center such as those messages from customers N. That is incoming source information may be a list of telephone numbers and or email addresses of users who have previously contacted UM call center or have some other prior association with UM call center . Accordingly when UM call center receives a call from a particular known source UM database may be accessed to determine any appropriate associations e.g. associations of a message based on its originator with a particular customer service representative ID CRS ID association of particular customer service representatives N using organizational chart address book information etc. .

As discussed similarly in related U.S. Pat. No. 8 209 386 entitled Message Routing and Determining a Message Recipient in a Unified Messaging System tables may include other appropriate information such as a information about each customer service representative N. Table can be used to identify a specific customer service representative using the incoming source information of an arrived message and the CSR ID of that customer service representative . For example if a voice message is from a caller at number 973 555 3333 customer service representative with CSR ID with a value of 3 can be initially associated with that arrived message. As another example UM platform can associate an arrived email from particular originator1 hype1 abc corp.com with a UM platform subscriber customer service representative with a CSR ID with value of 5. Not all of the employees of the call center may be initially associated with incoming messages by UM . For example only 5 employees are listed in table whereas information about more employees are stored in the sample data for table of call center . An incoming message whose incoming source information is otherwise not specified in table is associated with a customer service representative whose CSR ID is 4.

Tables and may be related in a hierarchical structure in that table may provide further information about table and table may provide further information about table

In the exemplary embodiment of table may represent an organizational chart as shown in . Such an organizational chart may be a representation of a partial or full hierarchical relationship of customer service representatives N in call center . For example if a customer N associated with the incoming telephone number 973 555 1111 from the list of incoming source information contacts UM call center a customer service representative with CSR ID with a value of 1 can be initially associated with that arrived message. The information in organization chart can be used by UM platform to escalate handling of this message to other people i.e. call center employees with CSR IDs of 2 and 8 in that order when certain conditions are met. That is as discussed below with respect to messages deposited in mailboxes associated with the customer service representatives N designated in organizational chart may be escalated to other customer service representatives N according to a predetermined condition. In the sample organization chart of table the CSR ID values of employees are stored for each employee. The level of each employee may also be stored in table . For example each row of a tabular arrangement of table can include among other data a column value for level of that employee and another column for the CSR ID of that employee. A total of 5 levels are shown for table where customer service representative with the CSR ID of 4 is at level 1 customer service representatives with CSR IDs of 1 3 and 5 are at level 2 and so on. The employee customer service representative with CSR ID of 10 is at level 5 in table

Information related to the escalations of messages among customer service representatives N with regards to their positioning in organizational chart may be stored in table . Table may store information related to the length of time a message is stored in a particular mailbox before being escalated. For example a message stored in a mailbox for a level 1 customer service representative N may be stored for 0.5 hours before being forwarded to the next available or next designated customer service representative N e.g. the next higher customer service representative in organizational chart . Similarly as shown in table a message stored in a mailbox for a level 2 customer service representative may be stored for 1 hour before being forwarded to the next available or next designated customer service representative N. In other words different customer service representatives N and or different levels of organizational chart may be assigned different durations messages are held before being escalated to another customer service representative N. The timing value for employees at level 4 has a special value 1 in the sample table to indicate that UM platform must not escalate handling of incoming messages above level 4 under any circumstances.

Another table of UM database can be used to associate each message with zero or more transaction IDs . Each arrived message in a UM platform is assigned a unique message UID by UM system platform . Customer service representatives N may associate each message with zero or more transaction IDs . Transactions can be any information that may be maintained in the UM database or another database not shown such as trouble tickets invoices or payments. Such transactions may be related to customers N or other events or information which may be internal to the call center . Other columns of table include CSR ID equivalent to CSR ID . Other data in database may be used to associate each CSR ID to the unique email address of each customer service representative N as described in the co pending and concurrently filed U.S. Pat. No. 8 209 386 entitled Message Routing and Determining a Message Recipient in a Unified Messaging System . Each Customer service representative N can use the UM platform to populate modify and or delete one or more transaction IDs for each message in his her mailbox after he she accesses each message. Such transaction IDs may be used to communicate additional information about messages between customer service representatives N who may have accessed each message. For example the example in table can indicate that the customer service representative with CSR ID of value 5 may have not accessed a message with message UID of value 81 yet and or has not assigned any transaction ID values to it whereas message UID of customer service representative with CSR ID value of 6 may have received an escalated copy of that same message into his mailbox message UID with a value of 128 and may have assigned a transaction ID with a value of B597Y to that escalated instance of that same message. As shown for two messages with message UID with values of 81 in Table it is possible that different messages in the separate mailboxes of the various customer service representatives N may have the same Message UID .

In step a communication is received at call center . The communication may be a message telephone call email facsimile short message service SMS message text message or the like received from a customer N. In at least one embodiment the communication is received at UM interface . In the same or alternative embodiments the communication is received and handled further by UM controller .

In step user e.g. customer identification information is determined. In at least one embodiment customer identification information is determined by UM interface and or UM controller based on the communication received in step . Customer identification information e.g. a user identification designation may be a telephone number caller ID email address Internet Protocol IP address or any other appropriate identifier. For example the customer identification information may be an incoming source information as shown in . In some cases no customer identification information can be determined in these cases the incoming communication may be identified as OTHER as shown in . In an alternative embodiment customer identification information may be information indicative of the reason the customer N has contacted UM call center .

In step a determination is made as to whether a customer service representative N is associated with the incoming communication. As described above with respect to tables of UM database may be accessed e.g. by UM controller and a customer service representative N may be identified. In this way a message recipient may be determined by querying one or more recipient databases and or address books. In other words UM database which includes address book e.g. contact information for each customer service representative N may be queried to determine which customer service representative N is to be associated with the incoming communication.

If a customer service representative N is determined in step the method proceeds to step and the communication is routed to that customer service representative. If no customer service representative N is identified in step the method proceeds to step and the communication is routed according to a predetermined protocol.

In step the communication received in step is associated with and routed to the UM platform mailbox Inbox of a customer service representative N. That is a look up or other function is used to query an address book a database or the like to determine if the originator sender of the message has been associated with e.g. assigned to etc. a customer service representative and the communication is sent to the mailbox of that customer service representative. The method then proceeds to step .

In at least one embodiment the query accesses a hierarchical or organizational chart such as organizational chart of table in to determine the associated customer service representative N. In the example of the communication associated with message UID with value of 127 is routed to the customer service representative N with CSR ID with value of 4.

If no customer service representative N is identified in step the communication is routed according to a predetermined protocol in step . In at least one exemplary embodiment of a predetermined protocol which can be used when the record in table may be missing or otherwise unavailable UM platform sends the message to any of the customer service representatives N who may be identified with CSR ID values in table . In yet another embodiment the communication is assigned to a customer service representative N according to a predetermined schedule e.g. next available lowest workload position on organizational chart etc. and the communication is routed to the identified customer service representative N. The method then proceeds to step .

In step a determination is made by one or more communication equipment components such as a telephone network switch not shown as to whether the designated customer service representative N is available. Here available refers to an ability to communicate with the customer N in a live or practically live format such as a telephone call video call or the like. In at least another embodiment the UM platform may try to dial out a different phone for the target customer service representative if the incoming message is a live telephone call. If the customer service representative N is available the method proceeds to step and the customer N associated with the incoming communication is connected to the customer service representative . In at least one embodiment where the live communications is not established UM platform allows the customer N to deposit a message in a mailbox of the customer service representative N as appropriate.

If the customer service representative N is not available the method proceeds to step and the communication is deposited in a mailbox of the customer service representative N. In at least one embodiment the communication is deposited in a mailbox at UM interface that is specifically assigned to the customer service representative determined in step instead of a general e.g. communal mailbox. After deposition of the communication the particular identified customer service representative N can be notified of the communication in step . Notification may be by any appropriate means such as a page telephone call email email alert SMS message voicemail or the like. In at least one embodiment this notification would include information indicative of the customer identified in step and may also include the message UID . In this way the customer service representative N responsible for a particular customer N is notified that the customer has left a message.

Following notification in step message escalation features are enabled in step . These message escalation features are discussed further with respect to method of .

In step a timing duration delay is determined. Specifically the timing duration delay may be looked up from a database e.g. table of UM database or other location e.g. UM controller UM interface etc. . The timing duration is a time that the deposited message is stored e.g. held at a mailbox before an automatic action e.g. escalation is triggered. That is the deposited message is associated with a time period before UM interface and or UM controller intervenes. As discussed above the timing duration may be related to a particular level of the organizational chart associated with the customer service representatives N.

In step a determination is made as to whether the timing duration has elapsed. In at least one embodiment a timer is activated and run for the timing duration determined in step . The timer counts down the timing duration determined in step . In at least one embodiment the timer is activated when the message is deposited in a mailbox. The timer may be a separate component of UM platform may be a part of UM interface may be implemented as logic by UM controller or may be implemented through another method. The determination is continually made until the timing duration has elapsed. The method then proceeds to step .

In step a determination is made as to whether the message has been retrieved by the customer service representative who is associated with the UM platform mailbox where the message is stored. In at least one embodiment it is determined if the customer service representative has read played listened to or otherwise displayed the message. If the message has been retrieved the method proceeds to step and the method ends.

If the message has not been retrieved the method proceeds to step and a new message recipient is determined. The new message recipient is determined according to a predetermined structure. In at least one embodiment the new message recipient is determined based on a hierarchical structure. For example the organizational chart table and table may be used to determine the next higher representative of the organization. The method then proceeds to step .

In step a decision is made based on the determined results of step whether further escalation of the message is necessary. If a pre determined timing value such as 1 is observed in step no further escalations are indicated and the method proceeds to end at step . Otherwise the method proceeds to step .

The message is then forwarded to the new message recipient in step and the message is deposited in the new message recipient s mailbox. The message may retain the originally associated information e.g. incoming source information importance etc. and or be enhanced with additional information e.g. time elapsed since original message deposition customer information information about the original recipient customer service representative etc. .

In some embodiments the original message recipient is copied on or otherwise notified of the escalated message so that the original message recipient is made aware of all actions performed related to the incoming message. In the same or alternative embodiments intermediate escalated messages are deleted upon escalation. That is optionally when a message is forwarded for at least a second time all prior messages except the original incoming message are deleted as the message is escalated. In this way extra intermediate copies of the message are not kept unnecessarily. Only the original CSR and the upper most CSR would have the original message and an escalated copy if this option is implemented. In an alternative embodiment intermediate messages can be accumulated and forwarded to the intermediate CSRs. In this way intermediate CSRs will have access to the complete history of a particular transaction.

The method then returns to step and a new timing duration is determined. As discussed above each customer service representative N may have a different associated timing duration stored in database .

In some embodiments after determining that a message has not been retrieved in step UM interface or UM controller may access a calendar of the message recipient to determine if the message recipient should be available is away is on vacation etc. In this way UM platform may determine if further escalation is required. In some embodiments the timing duration may be reset or modified based on such calendar information.

As described above a customer service representative may assign modify and or delete zero or more transaction IDs for a message. is a flowchart illustrating a method of associating transaction IDs to a message according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. For example the method of enables a customer service representative to assign at least one transaction ID to a message in the mailbox of the customer service representative and modify or remove any transaction IDs assigned to a message. The method begins at step . In step UM platform deposits a message in the mailbox e.g. per steps and in methods and respectively and assigns a unique message UID to this new message in that mailbox. The UM platform selects which mailbox to send the message as described above in methods and . In step UM platform may send zero or more notifications about the deposited message with message UID to the customer service representative . This notification step is described above in step method . In step in response to receiving the notification about the deposited message the customer service representative retrieves the message from the mail box. This sets the status flag to retrieve is TRUE . This status flag is read in step of method . In step at least one transaction ID may be associated with the message and stored in database based on input received from the customer service representative . This allows the customer service representative to assign one or more transaction IDs to the message. In step existing transaction IDs associated with the message may be modified or removed or new transaction IDs associated with the message are added based on input received from the customer service representative . This allows the customer service representative to modify or remove any existing transaction ID or assign a new transaction ID to a message. The customer service representative can use UM controller to assign remover or modify zero or more transaction IDs to a message. The method ends at step . It is to be understood that method of allows a customer service representative to specify or modify transaction IDs associated with a message in the mailbox of the customer service representative at any time.

Though discussed herein as being related to a call center and customer service representatives one of skill in the art would recognize that the methods and systems described herein could be extended to any appropriate organizational structure. That is the escalation methods of and the method for assigning transaction IDs to a message of could be used in any firm company network or the like. In such cases customer service representatives would be any internal users of the system and the call center would be any network or calling system used by the organization.

The foregoing Detailed Description is to be understood as being in every respect illustrative and exemplary but not restrictive and the scope of the general inventive concept disclosed herein is not to be determined from the Detailed Description but rather from the claims as interpreted according to the full breadth permitted by the patent laws. It is to be understood that the embodiments shown and described herein are only illustrative of the principles of the present general inventive concept and that various modifications may be implemented by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the general inventive concept. Those skilled in the art could implement various other feature combinations without departing from the scope and spirit of the general inventive concept.

