---

title: Dynamic communications controller
abstract: Apparatuses, systems, methods, and computer program products are disclosed for a dynamic communications session controller. An identity module is configured to masquerade as a session endpoint to a session controller for a communications protocol using one or more network interfaces. An endpoint selection module is configured to dynamically select a destination for a session intended for a masqueraded session endpoint, based on information from one or more destinations. A routing module is configured to maintain and/or direct connectivity for a session with at least a selected destination using a communications protocol.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09584518&OS=09584518&RS=09584518
owner: CALLWARE TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
number: 09584518
owner_city: Sandy
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150909
---
This invention relates to communications and more particularly relates to a session controller for dynamically routing communications.

Although phone calls and other communications are just as important to businesses as ever if not more so communications are becoming increasingly mobile and increasingly on personal devices. Most businesses however still rely on wired desk phones and a one to one assignment of a desk phone to an individual employee. Mobile phones are often personal devices with personal data and are often insecure. Some users therefore may use and carry two mobile phones one for personal matters and one for business matters.

Some phone systems may blindly forward calls or use a centrally administered follow me or find me feature with a list of different phone numbers ringing them each according to some predefined algorithm. Such phone systems typically follow a predefined list or algorithm regardless of the situation or external circumstances.

For example if a user has setup a follow me list including a desk phone extension and a mobile phone number the phone system will call both numbers when the user receives a phone call even if the user is operating a vehicle performing a surgery in a library or the like. Even ringing the user s desk phone while the user is out of the office may be unnecessarily bothersome to coworkers.

Apparatuses for a dynamic communications controller are disclosed. An identity module in one embodiment is configured to masquerade as a session endpoint to a session controller for a communications protocol using one or more network interfaces. An endpoint selection module in certain embodiments is configured to dynamically select a destination for a session intended for a masqueraded session endpoint based on information from the destination. In a further embodiment a routing module is configured to maintain and direct connectivity for a session with at least a selected destination using a communications protocol.

An apparatus in one embodiment includes means for receiving a communication for a role in an organization. A role in certain embodiments comprises a pool of one or more members. In a further embodiment an apparatus includes means for dynamically selecting a member of a pool for a session for a communication based on information received from one or more devices associated with one or more members.

Systems for a dynamic communications controller are disclosed. In one embodiment a hardware communications switch comprises a session controller for a communications protocol. An endpoint controller in a further embodiment is configured to represent a plurality of endpoints to a session controller and to dynamically route sessions for the endpoints to different destinations based on information received at the endpoint controller from the different destinations.

Methods for a dynamic communications controller are disclosed. A method in various embodiments may include one or more of the steps and or actions described above with regard to the disclosed apparatuses and systems.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment an embodiment or similar language means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. Thus appearances of the phrases in one embodiment in an embodiment and similar language throughout this specification may but do not necessarily all refer to the same embodiment but mean one or more but not all embodiments unless expressly specified otherwise. The terms including comprising having and variations thereof mean including but not limited to unless expressly specified otherwise. An enumerated listing of items does not imply that any or all of the items are mutually exclusive and or mutually inclusive unless expressly specified otherwise. The terms a an and the also refer to one or more unless expressly specified otherwise.

Furthermore the described features advantages and characteristics of the embodiments may be combined in any suitable manner. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize that the embodiments may be practiced without one or more of the specific features or advantages of a particular embodiment. In other instances additional features and advantages may be recognized in certain embodiments that may not be present in all embodiments.

These features and advantages of the embodiments will become more fully apparent from the following description and appended claims or may be learned by the practice of embodiments as set forth hereinafter. As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method and or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having program code embodied thereon.

Many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of program code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of program code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. Where a module or portions of a module are implemented in software the program code may be stored and or propagated on in one or more computer readable medium s .

The computer program product may include a computer readable storage medium or media having computer readable program instructions thereon for causing a processor to carry out aspects of the present invention.

The computer readable storage medium can be a tangible device that can retain and store instructions for use by an instruction execution device. The computer readable storage medium may be for example but is not limited to an electronic storage device a magnetic storage device an optical storage device an electromagnetic storage device a semiconductor storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. A non exhaustive list of more specific examples of the computer readable storage medium includes the following a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory a static random access memory SRAM a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM a digital versatile disk DVD a memory stick a floppy disk a mechanically encoded device such as punch cards or raised structures in a groove having instructions recorded thereon and any suitable combination of the foregoing. A computer readable storage medium as used herein is not to be construed as being transitory signals per se such as radio waves or other freely propagating electromagnetic waves electromagnetic waves propagating through a waveguide or other transmission media e.g. light pulses passing through a fiber optic cable or electrical signals transmitted through a wire.

Computer readable program instructions described herein can be downloaded to respective computing processing devices from a computer readable storage medium or to an external computer or external storage device via a network for example the Internet a local area network a wide area network and or a wireless network. The network may comprise copper transmission cables optical transmission fibers wireless transmission routers firewalls switches gateway computers and or edge servers. A network adapter card or network interface in each computing processing device receives computer readable program instructions from the network and forwards the computer readable program instructions for storage in a computer readable storage medium within the respective computing processing device.

Computer readable program instructions for carrying out operations of the present invention may be assembler instructions instruction set architecture ISA instructions machine instructions machine dependent instructions microcode firmware instructions state setting data or either source code or object code written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The computer readable program instructions may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider . In some embodiments electronic circuitry including for example programmable logic circuitry field programmable gate arrays FPGA or programmable logic arrays PLA may execute the computer readable program instructions by utilizing state information of the computer readable program instructions to personalize the electronic circuitry in order to perform aspects of the present invention.

Aspects of the present invention are described herein with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer readable program instructions.

These computer readable program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks. These computer readable program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable storage medium that can direct a computer a programmable data processing apparatus and or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the computer readable storage medium having instructions stored therein comprises an article of manufacture including instructions which implement aspects of the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer readable program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other device to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other device to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer other programmable apparatus or other device implement the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

Many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of program instructions may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

The schematic flowchart diagrams and or schematic block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of apparatuses systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the schematic flowchart diagrams and or schematic block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions of the program code for implementing the specified logical function s .

It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the Figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. Other steps and methods may be conceived that are equivalent in function logic or effect to one or more blocks or portions thereof of the illustrated Figures.

Although various arrow types and line types may be employed in the flowchart and or block diagrams they are understood not to limit the scope of the corresponding embodiments. Indeed some arrows or other connectors may be used to indicate only the logical flow of the depicted embodiment. For instance an arrow may indicate a waiting or monitoring period of unspecified duration between enumerated steps of the depicted embodiment. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart diagrams and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart diagrams can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and program code.

The communications switch in one embodiment comprises a hardware communications switch. The communications switch and or the endpoint controller may comprise one or more communications ports and or interfaces e.g. one or more physical or virtual network interfaces such as one or more Ethernet ports e.g. 8P8C RJ45 one or more telephone ports e.g. RJ11 RJ14 RJ25 6P4C one or more wireless interfaces e.g. Wi Fi or IEEE 802.11 interface Bluetooth interface mobile telecommunications radio such as 2G 3G 4G and or 5G interface one or more fiber optic transceivers or other ports and or interfaces using which the communications switch may send and or receive voice and or data communications over the one or more communications channels e.g. a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the public switched telephone network PSTN the Internet a wireless channel and or network a wired channel and or network a T1 line an E1 line a fiber optic channel or the like .

The communications switch and or the endpoint controller in certain embodiments may comprise logic hardware or other electrical circuits for processing managing and or routing communications. For example the communications switch and or the endpoint controller may comprise one or more printed circuit boards integrated circuit devices e.g. an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic a processor a volatile memory circuit a non volatile solid state storage circuit or the like discrete electrical devices or other electrical circuits in communication with the one or more communication ports to receive communications for processing managing and or routing. In a further embodiment the communications switch and or the endpoint controller may comprise executable code stored on a non transitory computer readable storage medium executable by a processor or other hardware to perform the steps described herein with regard to the communications switch and or the endpoint controller .

The communications switch in one embodiment may comprise a session controller for a communications protocol. The communications switch in various embodiments may comprise an enterprise session controller ESC a local session controller LSC and or another session controller that implements a session initiation protocol SIP or other signaling and or communications protocol.

The communications switch as a session controller in certain embodiments may provide and or manage connectivity for communications between endpoints e.g. clients destinations using and or in accordance with the communications protocol. The communications switch may provide an application programming interface API or other interface for the communications protocol and or for the session controller to one or more endpoints over the one or more communications channels e.g. to create initiate a communications session to modify transfer a communications session to end terminate a communications session or the like .

The communications protocol may be for voice communications video communications text communications data communications and or another communication type. In one embodiment the communications protocol comprises a session initiation protocol SIP for initiating negotiating signaling and or otherwise controlling communications sessions. The communications protocol in various embodiments may comprise one or more of SIP an application layer protocol a transport layer protocol a hypertext transfer protocol HTTP a simple mail transfer protocol SMTP a session description protocol SDP a real time transport protocol RTP a secure RTP SRTP a transport layer security TLS protocol a chat or instant messaging protocol a short message service SMS protocol a multimedia messaging service MMS protocol a telephony protocol a voice protocol a voice over internet protocol VOIP a plain old telephone service POTS protocol a digital enhanced cordless telecommunications DECT protocol an H.323 protocol XMPP Jingle a digital private network signaling system DPNSS protocol a primary rate interface PRI protocol a QSIG protocol an integrated services digital network ISDN protocol a media gateway control protocol MGCP an inter asterisk exchange IAX protocol an audio protocol a multimedia protocol a video protocol a document protocol a fax protocol and or another protocol.

For example the communications switch and or an associated session controller may comprise a private branch exchange PBX that connects one or more internal endpoints e.g. telephone extensions to the PSTN provides internal communications among the one or more internal endpoints or the like. In certain embodiments the communications switch and or an associated session controller may comprise an internet protocol IP PBX with internet protocol connectivity providing audio video text and or data communications to and or from one or more endpoints using a transmission control protocol internet protocol TCP IP protocol stack or the like. For example an IP PBX may support SIP inter asterisk exchange IAX H.323 XMPP Jingle or another VOIP protocol. The communications switch and or an associated session controller may provide one or more other functions such as conferencing voicemail transcription or speech to text call recording auto attendant auto dialing directory services call blocking call forwarding call logging call park call transfer call waiting or the like.

The communications switch e.g. the session controller may be configured to receive one or more communications requests of the communications protocol to broker a communications session between two endpoints or other destinations . An endpoint and or destination may comprise one or more of a mobile telephone a wired telephone a computer device such as a desktop computer or a laptop computer a tablet computing device a gaming console a mobile gaming device a wearable device such as a smart watch or wristband a set top box or dongle a television and or another communications device capable of sending and or receiving a communication. An endpoint may be owned by and or the property of an organization which owns the communications switch and or the endpoint controller may be a user s e.g. an employee s privately controlled personal device . In an embodiment where an endpoint comprises a user s privately controlled personal device the endpoint may comprise a secure footprint e.g. an application or other computer executable program code owned by or at least partially controlled by an organization that owns the communications switch and or the endpoint controller so that communications are secure and or protected.

Instead of one or more of the endpoints e.g. an extension a direct inward dialing DID number a communications device or the like registering and or being registered with the communications switch directly in certain embodiments the endpoint controller is configured to masquerade as and or directly represent the one or more of the endpoints to the communications switch registering itself as the one or more of the endpoints . For example in embodiments where the communications switch comprises a SIP session controller the endpoint controller may register itself as a plurality of different SIP endpoints . The endpoint controller may masquerade as an endpoint transparently so that the communications switch and or the session controller may not realize or determine that the endpoint controller is not the actual endpoint . By masquerading or otherwise representing itself as an endpoint the endpoint controller in certain embodiments may dynamically connect and or route communications sessions to different destinations endpoint devices users roles or the like based on information from the different destinations and or on other factors.

For example in certain embodiments the communications switch and or the endpoint controller may receive a communications request e.g. a phone call a chat or text message an email a document a video conference or the like for a role e.g. in an organization or the like . A role in one embodiment may comprise a pool of one or more members. Different pool members for a role may be associated with different endpoint devices e.g. different destinations for a communication and or communication session and the endpoint controller may be configured to select one of the endpoint devices for a communication for the role based on information from the different endpoint devices such as global positioning system GPS data gyroscope data accelerometer data speed and or velocity data or other location and or sensor data proximity information of an endpoint device to an external sensor to another endpoint device to a wireless access point or the like or other information from a potential destination for a communication.

The endpoint controller in various embodiments may register for receive and or route one or more live or non live communications from the communications switch to one or more endpoints such as one or more of audio text video documents and or other communications data. The endpoint controller may masquerade as and or represent one or more endpoints assigned to a user e.g. a human individual a role an organization a functional and or organizational resource e.g. a fax machine a conference room a vehicle a project e.g. with a project name an objective or goal associated with one or more individuals or the like or the like and such endpoints may comprise a phone number an extension number an IP address a media access control MAC address and or another endpoint identifier as configured by the communications switch . In this manner a first user communications device endpoint or the like may send a communications request or otherwise initiate a communication and or communications session with a user a role an organization or the like with a phone number extension number or other identifier without knowledge of which endpoint the endpoint controller selects for the communication and or communications session.

In a further embodiment the endpoint controller may be configured to receive a request for an individual a role an organization or the like without a phone number or extension number but with another identifier such as a name a title an email address a username a department or the like. The endpoint controller may query a directory e.g. a lightweight directory access protocol LDAP server a database a lookup table and or another data structure with the received identifier to determine one or more endpoints associated with the identifier in order to select an endpoint as a destination for the requested communication and or communication session.

By dynamically routing and directing communications by role organization project resource or the like to different destinations based on information from one or more of the different destinations in one embodiment the endpoint controller may allow an organization to retain ownership of a communication a contact role contact information or the like even if an employee or other contact person leaves the organization. Further in one embodiment the ownership and privacy of an individual s personal device personal phone number and or personal information may be retained and or protected from encroachment while remaining accessible to an organization for the organization s purposes through the endpoint controller .

In certain embodiments the endpoint controller allows the content of an organization s communications audio visual textual document live non live or the like made on the organization s behalf by its agents through privately controlled personal devices to be logged recorded and or archived. The endpoint controller in a further embodiment may allow an organization to provide a healthier environment by reducing the number of intimate shared surfaces for communicable diseases e.g. desktop telephones or other communications devices replacing them with personal mobile communication devices e.g. mobile phones that are not typically shared. The endpoint controller in this manner may invert the practice and paradigm in certain embodiments so that roles resources and or projects are the primary targets for communication session connectivity instead of individuals and individuals may be coordinated as secondary targets reprioritized by the endpoint controller and able to be selected from a pool of individuals as needed to fulfill the primary session connectivity objectives of an organization or the like.

In the embodiment depicted in the endpoint controller is separate from but in communication with the communications switch . For example the endpoint controller may comprise a separate hardware appliance e.g. comprising one or more of an ASIC an FPGA a processor one or more communication interfaces such as a network adapter a volatile memory non volatile storage a power supply or the like in communication with the communications switch e.g. a separate hardware appliance over a network . In a further embodiment the endpoint controller may comprise computer executable program code executing on a processor of a host computing device and the host computing device may be in communication with the communications switch over the network .

An organization in one embodiment comprises an entity associated with one or more users or other individuals. An organization may comprise a business entity e.g. a company a corporation a partnership an educational institution a family or household a government body or another type of entity. In the depicted embodiment each organization comprises its own communications switch endpoint controller and portal module .

The communications switches and or the endpoint controllers may manage communications for the organizations substantially as described above with regard to and . A communications switch in one embodiment may receive a communication and or a communications request for a role in an organization and a role may comprise a pool of one or more members. An endpoint controller in one embodiment may dynamically select a member of the pool for initiating a session for the communication and or communications request based on information received from one or more devices associated with at least one of the one or more members.

A portal module in one embodiment may provide information e.g. a profile page or other webpage for a role in an organization for one or more communications sessions from an endpoint controller or the like. Multiple portal modules in certain embodiments may each provide information from communications sessions such as profile pages e.g. for a user for a role for a project for an organization for a fax machine for a vehicle for a conference room or other room or the like in a decentralized network of multiple organizations 

A profile page in one embodiment may include information from one or more communications sessions such as one or more audio voice call recordings voice call transcriptions e.g. speech to text text messages emails video recordings e.g. from a video conference or chat images screenshots drawings or other information. A portal module in certain embodiments is configured to provide a page e.g. a profile page associated with a session endpoint to one or more users members of a role or the like. A portal module in a further embodiment may secure and or limit access to pages to information on a page or the like associated with a communications session to one or more users having security authorization for the communications session in cooperation with the security module described below or the like.

A portal module in cooperation with an endpoint controller or the like may seamlessly and or transparently make the content of an organization s communications e.g. audio visual textual document live non live available on its behalf to its agents and or other users. A portal module and or an endpoint controller in certain embodiments may log record and or archive a communication through a privately controlled personal device of a user e.g. through a secure app or other computer executable code executing as a secure footprint on the personal device or the like .

A portal module in one embodiment may index parse or otherwise process information of a communication so that the information is searchable or otherwise accessible. For example in certain embodiments a portal module may proscriptively merge and or apply one or more social media communication modalities to communication information such as adding and or allowing a user to add one or more hashtags to keywords allowing a user to like a post associated with a communications session allowing a user to tag themselves or other users roles resource an organization or the like in a post associated with a communications session allowing a user to edit or add content to a post associated with a communications session or the like. Because in one embodiment a portal module provides pages independent from other social networks it provides one or more advantages of social media communication modalities while preserving the professionalism efficiency and or effectiveness of business communications for an organization with minimal individual disruption and or interruption.

Each portal module in the depicted embodiment comprises one of a plurality of decentralized portal modules operating at different geographic locations for different organizations . In this manner the plurality of portal modules may be configured to provide one or more users with access to profile pages for the different organizations indexed and accessible by role with each organization managing and or controlling security for its own pages and each portal module monitoring and publishing communications from its own associated endpoint controller .

In one embodiment the identity module is configured to masquerade represent itself e.g. the endpoint controller and or register as a session endpoint to a session controller for a communications protocol e.g. SIP using one or more network interfaces physical or logical virtual. For example in embodiments where the endpoint controller comprises a separate hardware appliance from the communications switch the identity module may masquerade as and or represent one or more session endpoints over a physical network interface and communications channel . In embodiments where the endpoint controller is integrated with the communications switch the identity module may masquerade as and or represent one or more session endpoints over a logical virtual network interface internally within the communications switch . In this manner in certain embodiments the identity module may allow the endpoint controller to be used with an existing communications switch a third party communications switch or the like e.g. without modifying replacing and or upgrading the communications switch as the identity module may use a standard and or predefined procedure for registering as an endpoint such that the communications switch has no knowledge that the endpoint controller is not the actual endpoint being masqueraded.

For example in one embodiment the identity module is configured to directly represent one or more session endpoints using a SIP communication protocol to the communications switch which may comprise one or more of a SIP enterprise session controller ESC a SIP local session controller LSC a SIP trunk and or another external system from the endpoint controller . A session endpoint in certain embodiments may be associated with a user a role a project a resource an organization or the like such as a telephone number an extension number a name an email address a username and or another unique identifier associated with the user role project resource organization or the like.

In this manner in one embodiment an external SIP system and or device can target a human individual a user a role a project a resource an organization or the like as identified by an association with a standard phone number extension number or the like. As described below with regard to the endpoint selection module and the outing module although a standard phone number and or extension number may be used because the identity module masquerades as the session endpoint the endpoint selection module may select any destination for a communication and the routing module may dynamically route a communications session.

A session endpoint in a further embodiment represents a human individual a user a role a project a resource an organization or the like as identified by a public key certificate so that an external user system and or device can target the human individual user role project resource organization or the like using the public key certificate. A session endpoint in another embodiment may be associated with a human individual a user a role a project a resource an organization or the like based on a search query presented to a directory e.g. a Lightweight Directory Access Protocol LDAP server or the like or other data structure the search query identifying only the human individual user role project resource organization or the like.

A session endpoint in one embodiment is associated with a role e.g. a functional role an organizational role such as a contact role a sales role a customer service role an administrative role an executive role a human resources role or the like. A role may comprise a pool of multiple associated users e.g. multiple employees associated with the role . In a further embodiment a session endpoint represents a resource e.g. a functional resource an organizational resource such as a fax machine a conference room a vehicle or the like. A session endpoint in certain embodiments is associated with a project. A project may comprise a name or other identifier an objective one or more project members e.g. one or more roles one or more users or the like. A project may be functional and or organization and may represent a discrete or ephemeral organizational objective or goal or the like.

A session endpoint in one embodiment is associated with an organization s contact role. Ownership of the organization s contact role due to the masquerading of the identity module may remain in full possession and control of the organization even though the routing module described below may be configured to extend a communications session for the contact role onto a user s personally owned device in response to the endpoint selection module selecting the user s personally owned device as the destination as described below.

While the identity module may masquerade as and or represent itself as one or more session endpoints to the communications switch in certain embodiments one or more actual hardware endpoint devices compatible with the communications protocol described above e.g. SIP may register with the endpoint selection module as a destination for a communications session using the communications protocol. In a further embodiment the identity module may register with the communications switch e.g. masquerading as a session endpoint using a first communications protocol e.g. SIP while the one or more destinations e.g. hardware endpoint devices may use a different communications protocol e.g. the routing module described below may call or dial a destination to initiate a communication instead of the destination registering with the endpoint selection module as a SIP endpoint .

In one embodiment the endpoint selection module is configured to dynamically select a destination for a communication and or a communications session intended for a session endpoint masqueraded by the identity module as described above. The endpoint selection module may select a destination for a communication and or communication session based on information from the destination and or from other potential destinations . For example a session endpoint masqueraded by the identity module may be associated with multiple potential destinations e.g. multiple users multiple communications devices multiple locations a role or the like and in response to a communications request the endpoint selection module may query the multiple potential destinations may access information most recently received from the multiple potential destinations or the like to select one or more of the multiple potential destinations for the communication. As described above a communications session a communication or the like may comprise one or more of an audio text video and or document session.

A session endpoint in certain embodiments is associated with a role comprising a pool of multiple associated users. In such embodiments the endpoint selection module may be configured to select a destination based on information received from one or more devices associated with at least one of the multiple associated users in a pool for a role.

The information that the endpoint selection module receives from a destination in one embodiment may include a relative proximity of the destination to a physical station e.g. a Bluetooth beacon a wireless access point a cell tower or the like . The endpoint selection module may select a destination based on the received information and one or more predefined rules or selection criteria such as selecting a destination which is closest to the physical station a destination which is furthest away from the physical station or the like. For example the endpoint selection module may receive information from the mobile phones or other personal devices of a plurality of users e.g. members of a pool for a role from a physical station or the like.

In a further embodiment the information that the endpoint selection module receives from one or more destinations includes a geographic location of a destination such as a latitude and a longitude a determined street address or another indicator of a geographical location determined from a GPS sensor at the destination determined based on cell tower and or Wi Fi accessibility or triangulation or otherwise determined from a destination e.g. a mobile phone or other personal device of a user . The endpoint selection module may be configured to select a destination from a plurality of destinations in response to the geographic location of the selected destination being physically located within a predetermined site s geographic boundaries such as within a predefined building within a predefined room within a predefined state county city district city block and or within another predefined geographical region.

The information that the endpoint selection module receives from one or more destinations in certain embodiments may comprise a current availability of one or more users. For example the endpoint selection module may receive information from a mobile phone or other personal device of a user indicating a current availability of the user such as whether the user is currently on a phone call how recently the user has used the phone a current activity or state of the user e.g. an application or type of application being used on the device a current level of ambient noise and or lack of other voices measured using a microphone of the device a physical and or fitness activity of the user such as walking running cycling determined using a gyroscope an accelerometer or other sensor of the device and or from an activity tracker device or the like .

In a further embodiment the endpoint selection module may determine an availability of a user based on information from an activity tracker device which may measure and or determine a physical and or fitness activity of the user such as walking running cycling or the like a number of steps a heart rate a caloric intake or the like. Examples of activity tracker devices in various embodiments may include a smart watch a smart band and or fitness band a fitness necklace and or pendant or another wearable device with one or more sensors e.g. a gyroscope an accelerometer a heart rate sensor a GPS sensor or the like . The endpoint selection module may select a destination with a most available user with a first available user or the like based on the received information selecting a user with a requested role that is currently available to accept the communications session e.g. not exercising not dining or eating or the like based on information received from a user s personal mobile device from a user s activity tracker device e.g. directly from an activity tracker device from a mobile telephone paired to an activity tracker device or the like .

In certain embodiments the endpoint selection module may determine an availability of a user and or a destination based on information indicating a proximity of the user and or destination e.g. a user s mobile phone or other personal device to an activity station such as a meeting room a surgery or operation room or the like. The endpoint selection module may select a user and or another destination e.g. a member of a pool of users for a role that is not currently located within a predefined activity station within a predefined distance of an activity station or the like e.g. a user that is not in a meeting not in surgery . The endpoint selection module in one embodiment may select a fallback destination such as a receptionist secretary front desk assistant on call user or another fallback in response to one or more other users and or destinations being busy unavailable at a predefined activity station or the like.

In one embodiment the endpoint selection module may be configured to determine an availability of a user and or another destination e.g. in order to select a destination for a communication based on information indicating a network to which the destination device is connected such as a LAN a wireless network a virtual private network VPN or the like. For example the presence of a user and or a user s device on an organization s network may indicate that the user is present and or ready to receive communications for the user for a role associated with the user and or for the organization .

The endpoint selection module in certain embodiments may be configured to determine an availability of a user and or a destination e.g. in order to select a destination for a communication based on information indicating a current speed and or velocity of a user and or of a user s personal mobile device . For example a user s personal mobile device may comprise a GPS sensor an accelerometer a compass or the like data information from which the mobile device and or the endpoint selection module may use to determine a velocity a speed a direction of travel or the like. The endpoint selection module in one embodiment may select a user or other destination based on a velocity a speed and or a direction of travel for the user. For example the endpoint selection module may select a user and or a user s personal mobile device as a destination for a communication in response to a velocity and or speed of the user and or mobile device being less than a predefined threshold e.g. a walking speed indicating that the user is not in vehicular transit is walking or the like.

In a further embodiment the endpoint selection module may use a speed and or velocity in connection with other information. For example in one embodiment the endpoint selection module may allow a user to be selected even if the user s velocity is greater than the predefined threshold if additional information indicates that the user is a passenger and not a driver that the user is riding public transportation or other information indicating that the user is not operating a vehicle despite a determined velocity and or speed. For example the endpoint selection module and or a user s personal mobile device may determine the personal mobile device s relative location to other mobile devices within a vehicle e.g. using GPS data based on relative transmission signal strengths of the other mobile devices by triangulating signal sources or the like and may allow the user and or the user s personal mobile device to be selected as a destination for a communication in response to determining that the user is not located in a position to be driving and or operating a vehicle.

In a further embodiment the endpoint selection module may determine and or infer that a user is operating a vehicle in response to determining that a velocity and or speed of the user satisfies and or exceeds a predefined threshold and also detecting no other mobile devices within a predefined proximity with substantially similar velocity speed and or direction or the like. In another embodiment the endpoint selection module may determine and or infer that a user is operating a vehicle in response to determining that the user s personal mobile device is in a driver s seat position e.g. a forward leftmost or rightmost mobile device depending on local law and or customs defining the side of the road customarily travelled on in the country or other region in which the user is located within a set or collection of multiple mobile devices e.g. a group of mobile devices within a predefined distance of each other and having a substantially similar velocity speed and or direction .

As described above the information which the endpoint selection module receives from the one or more destinations based upon which the endpoint selection module may select a destination may include one or more of an indicator of whether a destination is currently engaged in a different communication and or communications session a proximity of a destination to a predefined location e.g. a geographic location an activity station a physical station such as a Bluetooth beacon a wireless access point and or a cell tower or the like a current network connection associated with a destination an indicator of a level of ambient noise detected from a microphone of the destination activity data for a user associated with the destination from a wearable activity tracker device of the user a current velocity associated with a destination the absence of other destination devices in proximity to a destination with equivalent direction and velocity and or a previous session connectivity history of a destination e.g. whether a user initiating the communication has communicated with the destination previously a number of times a user initiating the communication has communicated with the destination a most recent or the like .

As described below with regard to the security module a destination may comprise a secure footprint executing on a personally owned device of a user. The information from the destination that the endpoint selection module receives in certain embodiments may be sent from the secure footprint executing on the device . In response to a change in a role assignment for a user the endpoint selection module selecting a user for a communication or another trigger the security module in certain embodiments may prompt the user e.g. on a personal mobile device of the user to accept the role to accept the communication to confirm a change in status to confirm information being sent to the endpoint selection module or the like. If the user denies and or cancels the prompt in one embodiment the endpoint selection module may select a different destination for the communication.

The endpoint selection module in certain embodiments may improve performance of individual users e.g. employees or other members of an organization by automatically detecting the activities of the individual users and dynamically selecting a user destination for a communication based on the detected activities or other information so that an optimal user destination is selected. While the endpoint selection module in certain embodiments may select one destination from multiple potential destinations for a communication based on information from one or more of the destinations in a further embodiment may determine a mode of communication based on information received from one or more destinations . For example the endpoint selection module may dynamically determine whether a communication should be routed as a voice call as a voicemail as voice transcribed to a text message to a subordinate or other destination and or another mode of communication based on information from one or more destinations as described above. In a further embodiment the endpoint selection module may select both a destination for a communications request and a mode of communication for the communications request based on information from one or more destinations .

As described below with regard to the hierarchy module in certain embodiments the endpoint selection module may cooperate with the hierarchy module to select a destination based at least in part on a hierarchy of users roles and or destinations . For example the endpoint selection module may favor and or select a principal role and or individual whenever the role and or individual is available for a communication is a member of a collection of roles and or individuals being considered for session connectivity or the like. In a further embodiment the hierarchy module may be configured to allow a user that requests or otherwise originates a communication to escalate the endpoint selection module s selection for the communication to a destination with a higher authority in the hierarchy and or to deescalate the endpoint selection module s selection for the communication to a destination with a lower authority in the hierarchy. In another embodiment the hierarchy module may allow a user at a destination which receives a communication to escalate and or deescalate the endpoint selection module s selection for the communication to another user destination in the hierarchy and the routing module may transfer the communication accordingly.

In certain embodiments if a session originator e.g. a user that requests a communication retries an ignored communication e.g. within a predefined time period or the like the endpoint selection module and or the hierarchy module increase an urgency of the retried communication. For example the endpoint selection module may select a destination with a higher position in the hierarchy for a retried communication may select a different communication mode for a retried communication e.g. selecting a voice call instead of a voicemail for the retried communication and or otherwise adjust handling of a retried communication to increase urgency.

In one embodiment the routing module maintains and or directs connectivity for a communication and or a communications session with at least one destination selected by the endpoint selection module using one or more of the communications protocols described above e.g. SIP or the like. The routing module may make an initial connection sending routing and or forwarding a communications request and or a communication itself to a selected destination . The routing module in this manner may use an established communications session to spawn and or transfer one or more live or non live communications such as voice audio text video documents or the like.

In certain embodiments the routing module is configured to transfer an ongoing communications session e.g. a phone call a video conference from one destination to another destination in response to a user e.g. a participant in the communications session requesting a transfer by pressing a predefined button or key or combination of buttons or keys by selecting a transfer function in an application e.g. computer executable program code executing on a destination device e.g. a secure footprint or the like.

In one embodiment a user e.g. a participant in the communication session provides an alternate identifier for the new destination for the transfer such as a telephone number an extension number a name a username an email address or the like. In a further embodiment the endpoint selection module may dynamically select the new destination for the routing module to transfer a communication in the manner described above based on information from the alternate destination . In another embodiment the hierarchy module described below may select a new destination for the routing module to transfer a communication such as an available destination in a different level of a hierarchical tree e.g. a user may escalate or deescalate a communication to a different level of the hierarchical tree .

In certain embodiments the security module authenticates a user and or a destination for a transfer by the routing nodule as described below. The routing module and or the security module in one embodiment may transfer a communication and or communications session to an unauthenticated guest destination known to or otherwise authorized by the transferring user and or the currently selected destination . The routing module may allow a user to transfer a communication and or communications session from a currently selected destination device to another destination device detected within a certain proximity of the currently selected destination device e.g. on the same network as the currently selected destination device within Wi Fi Bluetooth and or near field communication NFC range of the currently selected destination device or the like .

In this manner in certain embodiments the routing module may allow a user to place their mobile phone against or near another mobile phone to transfer a communication using NFC to negotiate the session transfer to select a television or set top box as a new destination to cast stream or otherwise transfer a communication or the like facilitating convenience and or more public communication. In one embodiment the routing module may transfer a communication and or communications session using a function and or protocol of one or more of the communication protocols described above e.g. SIP .

The routing module in certain embodiments may cooperate with the security module to authorize and or authenticate a transfer e.g. authenticating a password personal identification number PIN fingerprint facial recognition or the like of a user . In a further embodiment the routing module may rely on a previously authenticated user e.g. already authenticated by the security module a member of a list of trusted users or the like to select an unauthenticated guest destination without further authentication by the security module .

For example a user and or destination device already authenticated to the security module and or the endpoint controller may be authorized to transfer a communications session to an unauthenticated guest device known to the authenticated user and or destination device using the routing module without further authentication by the security module . The routing module in one embodiment may cooperate with the security module to add a guest destination to a list of known and or authorized destinations e.g. which the security module is not required to authenticate for future communications or the like in response to a user selecting the guest destination for transferring a communication or the like.

In certain embodiments the routing module may be configured to transcode and or convert a communication session into a different format and or mode of communication for transferring the communication session based on a preference and or compatibility of the new destination . For example some destinations may support video while others may not or may support different formats of video and or audio. A recipient of a communication may have a preference for text while an originator of the communication may have a preference for voice or vice versa. In certain embodiments the routing module may transcribe audio into text or vice versa e.g. convert text to audio with little or no delay to the communication. The routing module in certain embodiments may store and or maintain a table a list or another data structure defining one or more preferences e.g. based on user input compatibilities or the like and may transcode or convert a communications session based on the one or more preferences compatibilities or the like in response to transferring the communications session to a different destination .

In one embodiment the security module is configured to prevent unauthorized access to communications to a user and or an organization s data e.g. being transferred over a network residing on a user s personal mobile device and or other destination device stored and or provided by a portal module or the like . In this manner in certain embodiments the security module may allow a user s personally owned mobile device to securely be used for an organization s communications without intermingling personal data with the organization s data or the like.

In one embodiment a communications request to initiate a new communications session may include and or reference a public key certificate identifying a user e.g. an individual an employee a role an organization or the like associated with a session endpoint masqueraded and or represented by the identity module . The security module in one embodiment may validate the public key certificate using Web of Trust WOT association rules may check a designated revoker to ensure that the WOT public key certificate has not been revoked or the like. In a further embodiment the security module may validate the public key certificate using public key infrastructure PKI rules with trusted roots from one or more certificate authorities CAs may check a CA s certificate revocation list CRL to ensure that the PKI public key certificate has not been revoked or the like.

In certain embodiments the security module may authenticate a destination e.g. a software or hardware SIP endpoint or the like . For example the security module may validate and or authenticate a username or other unique identifier and a password in response to a destination registering with the endpoint selection module to receive one or more communications. In a further embodiment the security module may validate and or authenticate a public key certificate for a destination registering with the endpoint selection module to receive one or more communications. In one embodiment the security module may validate the public key certificate of the destination using Web of Trust WOT association rules may check a designated revoker to ensure that the WOT public key certificate has not been revoked or the like. In a further embodiment the security module may validate the public key certificate of the destination using public key infrastructure PKI rules with trusted roots from one or more certificate authorities CAs may check a CA s certificate revocation list CRL to ensure that the PKI public key certificate has not been revoked or the like.

Without exchanging an endpoint s private credentials the security module may validate that the endpoint requesting authorization has access to the endpoint s private key or credentials through a challenge response where the security module issues a token for the endpoint to modify with the endpoint s private key or credentials and return the modified response. The security module may then verify that the modified response was accomplished by the endpoint s access to a valid private key or credentials and if so allow the requested authorization.

In certain embodiments at least a portion of the security module may be disposed on a destination device as an application or other computer executable code an ASIC an FPGA or other programmable logic and or another secure footprint on a destination device . The security module may generate a WOT public key certificate a PKI public key certificate or another digital certificate or identity certificate from a destination device itself either for the destination device or for a user role organization or other entity associated with the destination device .

The security module in one embodiment may distribute the generated certificate to a security authority e.g. an organization s security authority and the security authority may return the generated certificate signed along with the associated trusted root. At least a portion of the security module disposed on the endpoint controller e.g. as an application or other computer executable code an ASIC an FPGA or other programmable logic or the like on the endpoint controller may authenticate a destination device attempting to register with the endpoint selection module by challenging the destination device s access to a private key associated with a public key certificate for an associated identity distributed from a trusted entity e.g. an organization s trusted LDAP server or the like .

The security module in certain embodiments may use a reverse domain name service DNS lookup to authenticate an originator e.g. an entity requesting a communications session as a secondary authentication source to increase a confidence in the originator s trust and credentials for a communications session or the like. For example the security module may provide a confidence metric e.g. a trust rating or score to the endpoint selection module based on a reverse DNS lookup or the like and the endpoint selection module may use the confidence metric to select a destination for a communication to determine a communication mode or action for a communication e.g. how a requested session should be handled placed to an individual screened forwarded to voicemail transcribed to a text message blocked or the like .

An authentication exchange between the security module and either an initiator of a communications session or a destination in certain embodiments may be conducted via a secure connection such as internet protocol security IPSEC transport layer security TLS secure sockets layer SSL secure shell SSH and or another secure IP technology. As described above with regard to the routing module in certain embodiments the security module may allow the transfer of a communications session to a guest destination device . In one embodiment the security module may authenticate the guest destination device . In a further embodiment the security module may allow the routing module to transfer a communications session to an unauthenticated guest destination device .

The security module may add a guest destination device to a table list or other data structure of trusted devices in response to a user transferring a communications session to the guest destination device . In one embodiment the security module may maintain one or more blocklists and or passlists for different individuals users roles or the like. The one or more blocklists and or passlists in certain embodiments may be fine grained with associations between communication originators e.g. by phone number extension number name username email address or other unique identifier and actions e.g. primary secondary and or tertiary actions . A primary action may comprise an immediate answer an ignored no answer an immediate block an immediate send to voicemail or the like. A secondary action may comprise always ignoring always sending to voicemail always blocking. A tertiary action may comprise one or more conditions such as time place or activity e.g. always block or send to voicemail while driving after work hours while at home or another geographic location or the like . The security module may determine one or more actions to associate with a communication originator by prompting a user from a destination device by monitoring and or detecting a user s actions by accessing and or analyzing a session connectivity history of the user with one or more communication originators and or other historical behavior of the user or the like.

The security module in one embodiment may be configured to prevent unauthorized access to an organization s data residing on a user s personally owned device from one or more communications sessions or the like e.g. audio recordings video recordings audio and or video transcriptions text messages documents call or communication history or the like . For example the security module may encrypt the data authenticate a user attempting to access the data or the like. The security module in one embodiment may store copy and or move an organization s data at a different storage location owned by and or in control of the organization such as storage of the endpoint controller and or of a portal module a server or storage device of the organization or the like. In a further embodiment the security module may be configured to remove an organization s data from a user s personally owned device in response to a trigger such as a request from the organization a request from the owner of the personal device a revocation of a WOT or PKI certificate removal of the association that originally granted access such as being included and later removed from an organization s role or project a predefined number of failed authentication requests by a user or the like.

In this manner in certain embodiments the security module is configured to protect ownership and privacy of the user s personally owned device while the user s personally owned device may be used as a destination for communications by an organization for the organization s purposes. By dynamically routing communications through the endpoint controller e.g. by role by location and or by other information from a destination in a man in the middle configuration in certain embodiments ownership of an organization s contact role contact address e.g. phone number email address extension number may remain in full possession and control of the owning organization even though the communication session e.g. for a role can be extended onto an individual s personal and private devices .

In one embodiment the hierarchy module is configured to determine e.g. store access maintain a hierarchical tree for an organization . A hierarchical tree for an organization may comprise a hierarchy of destinations associated with roles of individuals within an organization . For example a hierarchical tree for an organization may be organized based on a management structure for the organization based on different customer service levels for the organization based on a department structure for the organization based upon geographical locations or the like. The endpoint selection module as described above may be configured to select a destination at least in part based on a role associated with a masqueraded session endpoint and on a position of the selected destination within the hierarchical tree.

For example for certain communications e.g. certain communication types communications from certain originators or sources or the like the endpoint selection module may be configured to select a destination from a lowest level of a hierarchical tree and a user may escalate the communication to one or more higher levels as described above with regard to the routing module if desired. For other communications e.g. potentially sensitive or private communications high priority communications or the like the endpoint selection module may be configured to select a destination from a highest level of a hierarchical tree and a user may deescalate the communication to one or more lower levels as described above with regard to the routing module if desired.

The hierarchy module in one embodiment may mark a role and or destination as preferred and or favored such that the endpoint selection module selects a member of the role and or the destination over others when available for a communication. In certain embodiments the hierarchy module may be configured to build and or import a hierarchical tree from a trusted source for an organization such as an LDAP server or the like for the organization . In a further embodiment the hierarchy module may determine a hierarchical tree for an organization based on input from a user such as an administrator or the like. Based on a hierarchical tree from the hierarchy module in certain embodiments the endpoint selection module may dynamically delegate a communication for a user and or role to a subordinate defined by the hierarchical tree in response to determining that the user and or role members are busy or unavailable.

In a further embodiment the endpoint selection module in cooperation with the hierarchy module or the like may divert a communication to the furthest and or lowest level of a hierarchical tree e.g. a lowest available subordinate and the routing module may allow the communication to be escalated promoted to a higher level e.g. a supervisor manager if desired. Similarly in certain embodiments the endpoint selection module in cooperation with the hierarchy module or the like may divert a communication to the closest and or highest level of a hierarchical tree and the routing module may allow the communication to be deescalated demoted to a lower level e.g. a subordinate if desired. The endpoint selection module in one embodiment may increase an urgency of a communication escalating promoting the communication to a higher level in a hierarchical tree from the hierarchy module in response to the communication comprising a second or subsequent retried communication from a communication originator after one or more ignored and or failed communication requests from the communication originator.

In one embodiment the transient collective module is configured to determine current members of a transient collective group and or to determine addresses e.g. phone numbers extension numbers email addresses names usernames or other identifiers of current members of a transient collective group so that the endpoint selection module may select one or more of the determined current members of the transient collective group as destinations for a communication session and the routing module may maintain and or direct connectivity for the communication session to the one or more of the determined current member of the transient collective group. A transient collective group in certain embodiments includes a plurality of members having one or more characteristics in common such as a location a mode of transportation an activity or the like. Members of a transient collective group may change over time as characteristics for the members change.

Examples of transient collective groups in various embodiments may include passengers on an airplane ship bus train or the like students in the same class enrolled in the same school and or on the same campus residents of a neighborhood city zip code or other region shoppers in a store employees of an organization employees of an organization currently onsite users on a network or the like. The transient collective module may maintain a table a list and or another data structure tracking members of a transient collective. For example the transient collective module may add cruise ship passengers or members of another transient collective to a transient collective list or other data structure as they board and connect to the ship s Wi Fi networks or the like. Once the transient collective module has added the members to the transient collective the members may continue to be addressable as a session endpoint on their personal communication devices e.g. over off ship cellular networks or off ship internet addressable networks in the cruise ship example .

In one embodiment the identity module masquerades as or represents a single session endpoint for a transient collective to a session controller of a communications switch multiple session endpoints for different subsets of a transient collective or the like. The endpoint selection module may select multiple members e.g. each current member each available member of the transient collective as destinations for communications for the transient collective based on the table list and or other data structure identifying members of the transient collective from the transient collective module and the routing module may route and or send the communications to the multiple members of the transient collective. In certain embodiments for example school campuses municipalities or other administrative entities may target an emergency message or announcement such as a reverse 911 message or the like to the subset of a transient collective currently within an emergency area or the like.

In certain embodiments one or more subsets of a transient collective group e.g. individual full or partial transient collectives may be addressed for a communication e.g. each subset may be masqueraded and or represented by the identity module . For example in an embodiment where a transient collective comprises passengers of a cruise ship those not yet on board the cruise ship may be targeted e.g. as determined by lack of connectivity to the ship s Wi Fi or the like with a text message alerting them of the imminent departure of the ship from port requesting that they board as soon as possible or the like. The transient collective module in certain embodiments may monitor and or update membership in a transient collective as the membership changes. At the end of a cruise for example the transient collective module may purge and or clear the transient collective of passengers create a new transient collective with new passengers or the like.

Based on the received information the endpoint selection module may determine that the users and associated endpoint devices are located in the same vehicle that a first user and associated endpoint device are located in a driver s position or the like. The endpoint selection module may select each of the passenger users and or associated endpoint devices for the communication e.g. not the driver may select one or more passenger users based on a hierarchical tree from the hierarchy module or the like.

The endpoint selection module in certain embodiments may receive information from one or more endpoint devices and or from the physical stations themselves indicating which users and or devices are closest to which physical stations . The endpoint selection module may select a user and or device closest to a first physical station for a communication for a role associated with the first physical station and may select a second user and or device closest to a second physical station for a communication for a role associated with the second station or the like.

The security module determines whether the selected destination is properly authenticated. If the selected destination cannot be properly authenticated the endpoint selection module selects a new destination based on the received information until a selected destination is properly authenticated . In certain embodiments if the security module is unable to authenticate any destination the portal module may be configured to record the communication and a targeted destination may retrieve the recorded communication at a later time once the destination is authenticated.

The routing module routes the requested communications session to the selected and authenticated destination . In response to the routing module detecting a transfer request or other trigger the routing module routes the communications session to a new destination .

In response to the communications session ending the portal module records information for the communications session including in certain embodiments transcription of audio. In response to the security module authenticating a user the portal module provides the user access to a page with information for the communications session and the method continues for a subsequently received communications request.

A means for receiving a communication a communications request or the like for a role in an organization comprising a pool of one or more members in various embodiments may include a communications switch an endpoint controller a network a destination a mobile communications device a routing module a hardware network appliance a network adapter a processor an integrated circuit device e.g. an ASIC an FPGA or other programmable logic or the like or other logic hardware and or other executable code stored on a computer readable storage medium. Other embodiments may include similar or equivalent means for receiving a communication a communications request or the like for a role in an organization .

A means for dynamically selecting a member of a pool for initiating a session for a communication a communications request or the like based on information received from one or more devices associated with at least one member of the pool in various embodiments may include a communications switch an endpoint controller a mobile communications device an endpoint selection module a routing module a transient collective module a hardware network appliance a processor an integrated circuit device e.g. an ASIC an FPGA or other programmable logic or the like or other logic hardware and or other executable code stored on a computer readable storage medium. Other embodiments may include similar or equivalent means for dynamically selecting a member of a pool for initiating a session.

A means for providing a profile page for a role in an organization in a decentralized network of multiple organizations with information from a session for a communication communications request or the like in various embodiments may include a communications switch an endpoint controller a mobile communications device a portal module a hardware network appliance a server a processor an integrated circuit device e.g. an ASIC an FPGA or other programmable logic or the like or other logic hardware and or other executable code stored on a computer readable storage medium. Other embodiments may include similar or equivalent means for means for providing a profile page for a role in an organization in a decentralized network of multiple organizations 

The present invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from its spirit or essential characteristics. The described embodiments are to be considered in all respects only as illustrative and not restrictive. The scope of the invention is therefore indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

