---

title: System and method to facilitate radio access point load prediction in a network environment
abstract: A method is provided in one example embodiment and may include training a statistical model representing radio access point loads or load changes for radio access points, wherein the statistical model is trained using, at least in part, historical measurement data associated with previous user equipment (UE) handovers among the radio access points and wherein the historical measurement data used to train the statistical model is gathered before and after the previous UE handovers; collecting current measurement data associated with a source radio access point and a target radio access point; and calculating a predicted load or load change for the target radio access point for one or more potential UE handovers from the source radio access point to the target radio access point for one or more UE based, at least in part, on application of the current measurement data to the trained statistical model.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09467918&OS=09467918&RS=09467918
owner: CISCO TECHNOLOGY, INC.
number: 09467918
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150824
---
This Application is a continuation and claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. application Ser. No. 14 808 821 filed Jul. 24 2015 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD TO FACILITATE RADIO ACCESS POINT LOAD PREDICTION IN A NETWORK ENVIRONMENT Inventor Raymond Yuk Chor Kwan. The disclosure of the prior application is considered part of and is incorporated in its entirety by reference in the disclosure of this application.

This disclosure relates in general to the field of communications and more particularly to a system and method to facilitate radio access point load prediction in a network environment.

Networking architectures have grown increasingly complex in communications environments particularly mobile wireless environments. Mobile communication networks have grown substantially in subscriber base as end users become increasingly connected to mobile wireless environments. As the number of mobile subscribers and the data demands of mobile subscribers increases efficient management of communication resources becomes more critical. In particular network operators and service providers desire to provide subscribers with the ability to be mobile throughout a communication network among different macro cell networks small cell networks Wireless Fidelity WiFi networks etc. in a seamless manner such that subscriber experience is minimally impacted. However as the number of mobile subscribers and the data demands of mobile subscribers continue to increase there are significant challenges in managing network resources to optimize subscriber loading within the communication network among resources available in the network.

A method is provided in one example embodiment and may include training a statistical model representing radio access point loads or load changes for a plurality of radio access points wherein the statistical model is trained using at least in part historical measurement data associated with a plurality of previous user equipment UE handovers among the plurality of radio access points and wherein the historical measurement data used to train the statistical model is gathered before and after the plurality of previous UE handovers collecting current measurement data associated with a source radio access point and a target radio access point and calculating a predicted load or load change for the target radio access point for one or more potential UE handovers from the source radio access point to the target radio access point for one or more UE based at least in part on application of the current measurement data to the trained statistical model.

In some cases the statistical model can be associated with a load function representing load or load changes for the plurality of radio access points. In some cases the training is performed to train the statistical model to converge towards an error criterion. In some instances the error criterion can be a mean square error criterion.

In some cases the historical measurement data and the current measurement data can include one or more of channel quality information associated with the source radio access point and the target radio access point guaranteed bit rate GBR information associated with one or more UE maximum bit rate information associated with one or more UE Quality of Service QoS Class Identifier information associated with one or more UE Allocation and Retention Priority information associated with one or more UE Access Point Name APN Aggregate Maximum Bit Rate A AMBR information associated with one or more APNs and UE Aggregate Maximum Bit Rate UE AMBR information associated with one or more UE. In some instances the channel quality information can be associated with one or more measurements performed by one or more UE connected to the source radio access point.

In other cases the method can include determining whether to initiate handover to the target radio access point for one or more UE associated with the source radio access point based at least in part on the predicted load or load change calculated for the target radio access point. In some instances the determining can be performed using a central management system which comprises one or more of a radio resource management system a self organizing network management system a small cell management system and a wireless local area network WLAN controller. In some instances the source radio access point or the target radio access point can be one or more of a 3rd Generation Partnership Program 3GPP macro cell radio a 3GPP small cell radio and a WiFi radio access point.

Another method is provided in one example embodiment and may include training a statistical model representing a network behavior for a radio access network comprising a plurality of radio access points wherein the statistical model is trained using historical measurement data gathered from the radio access network that is associated with a plurality of previous UE handovers among the plurality of radio access points and wherein the historical measurement data used to train the statistical model is gathered before and after the plurality of previous UE handovers collecting current measurement data associated with a source radio access point and a target radio access point and calculating a predicted network behavior for the radio access network for one or more potential UE handovers from the source radio access point to the target radio access point for one or more UE based at least in part on application of the current measurement data to the trained statistical model. In some cases the statistical model can be associated with a particular function representing the network behavior for the plurality of radio access points.

In some cases the method can include storing successive collections of current measurement data and updating the statistical model based at least in part on successive collections of current measurement data. In some instances the updating can be based additionally on measurement data collected for the source radio access point and the target radio access point after the one or more UE are handed over to the target radio access point.

In various instances the network behavior can be associated with one or more of an increased load for one or more radio access points for one or more UE handovers a decreased load for one or more radio access points for one or more UE handovers a change in load for one or more radio access points for one or more UE handovers a change in congestion for the radio access network for one or more UE handovers and a change in energy consumption for the radio access network for one or more UE handovers.

Another method is provided in one example embodiment and may include calculating predicted load changes for a target radio access point for one or more potential user equipment UE handovers from each of a plurality of source radio access points for a radio access network based at least in part on application of current measurement data to a trained statistical model representing load changes for the radio access network solving an optimization problem associated with energy savings for the radio access network to determine a set of one or more source radio access points that can be powered off to maximize energy savings or minimize energy consumption for the radio access initiating handover to the target radio access point for one or more UE connected to the one or more source radio access points belonging to the set and powering off the one or more source radio access points belonging to the set. In various instances the statistical model can be associated with a load function representing load or load changes for the plurality of radio access points.

In some cases the method can include ranking each predicted load change for the target radio access point for the one or more potential UE handovers calculated for each of the plurality of source radio access points according to a predetermined order. In various instances the predetermined order of the ranking can represent one of a range of predicted load changes from a smallest contribution of predicted load change for the target radio access point to a largest predicted load change for the target radio access point and a range of energy consumption for the plurality of source radio access points for the predicted load changes in a descending order from a largest contribution to energy consumption within the radio access network for a given source radio access point to a smallest contribution to energy consumption within the radio access network. In various instances each of the plurality of source radio access points provides a corresponding coverage area that is contained within a coverage area of the target radio access point.

Referring to is a simplified block diagram illustrating a communication system to facilitate radio access point load prediction in a network environment according to one embodiment of the present disclosure. In some embodiments this particular configuration may be tied to 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP based architectures including but not limited to an Evolved Packet System EPS architecture also sometimes referred to as the Long Term Evolution LTE EPS architecture a Circuit Switched CS architecture a Packet Switched PS architecture combinations thereof or the like. In some embodiments this particular configuration may be tied to a non 3GPP architectures including but not limited to a WiFi architecture a Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX architecture a Z Wave architecture a ZigBee architecture a Bluetooth architecture a Machine to Machine M2M architecture combinations thereof or the like. In still some embodiments the configuration may be tied to a combination of 3GPP based and non 3GPP based architectures. Alternatively the depicted configuration may be applicable to other environments equally.

The example architecture of can include users operating user equipment UE radio access points a radio access network RAN a central management system a service provider network a data analysis system and an internet . Central management system can include a Radio Resource Management RRM system. Data analysis system can include a data analytic engine . In various embodiments central management system can further include a Self Organizing Network SON management system a small cell management system and or a wireless local area network LAN controller WLC . Each radio access point can be logically connected to central management system and service provider network .

Each radio access point can be associated with a corresponding radio coverage area as indicated by the respective dashed line circle surrounding each respective radio access point . In some embodiments radio coverage areas for one or more radio access points can overlap in whole or in part radio coverage areas for one or more other radio access points e.g. the radio coverage area for radio access point can include the radio coverage areas for radio access points and . It should be understood that the coverage areas shown in are provided for illustrative purposes only and are not meant to limit the broad scope of the teachings of the present disclosure. Any other coverage areas e.g. coverage area size range can be provided by radio access points within the scope of the present disclosure.

In various embodiments UE can be associated with users employees clients customers etc. wishing to initiate a flow in communication system via some network. The terms user equipment mobile node end user user and subscriber are inclusive of devices used to initiate a communication such as a computer a personal digital assistant PDA a laptop or electronic notebook a cellular telephone an i Phone iPad a Google Droid phone an IP phone or any other device component element or object capable of initiating voice audio video media or data exchanges within communication system . UE may also be inclusive of a suitable interface to a human user such as a microphone a display a keyboard or other terminal equipment.

UE may also be any device that seeks to initiate a communication on behalf of another entity or element such as a program a database or any other component device element or object capable of initiating an exchange within communication system . For example UE may be inclusive of machine to machine M2M type communication capable devices such as for example parking meters vending machines traffic signals crossing signals appliances heating and cooling systems utility management systems combinations thereof or the like. Data as used herein in this document refers to any type of numeric voice video media or script data or any type of source or object code or any other suitable information in any appropriate format that may be communicated from one point to another. In some embodiments UE may have a bundled subscription for network access and application services e.g. voice etc. Once the access session is established the user can register for application services as well without additional authentication requirements. UE IP addresses can be assigned using dynamic host configuration protocol DHCP Stateless Address Auto configuration default bearer activation etc. or any suitable variation thereof. In various embodiments each UE can include one or more transmitters and or receivers e.g. transceivers and one or more antenna s to facilitate over the air OTA communications with one or more radio access points 

In various embodiments interfaces and or a series of interfaces can be provided in communication system e.g. for elements of communication system which can offer interoperation for mobility policy control power control load control interference mitigation or other operations between various elements of communication system . For example interfaces can be used to exchange point of attachment location and or access data for one or more end users for example users operating UE . In various embodiments resource information accounting information location information access network information network address translation NAT control etc. can be exchanged using a remote authentication dial in user service RADIUS protocol or any other suitable protocol where appropriate. Other protocols that can be used in communication system can include DIAMETER protocol service gateway interface SGi terminal access controller access control system TACACS TACACS etc. to facilitate communications. In some embodiments radio access points e.g. 3GPP based 4G LTE radio access points may logically be connected to each other via an X2 interface not shown in as defined in 3GPP standards.

RAN is a communications interface between UE e.g. and service provider network and or internet via radio access points . RAN may include one or more radio coverage areas via radio access points for servicing multiple end users and for managing their associated connectivity. The communications interface provided by RAN may allow data to be exchanged between an end user and any number of selected elements within communication system . For example RAN may facilitate the delivery of a request packet e.g. request for service s generated by a given UE e.g. UE and the reception of information sought by an end user.

In various embodiments RAN may include 3GPP based access networks such as for example Global System for Mobile Communications GSM Enhanced Data Rates for GSM Evolution EDGE Radio Access Network GERAN generally referred to as 2G Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network UTRAN generally referred to as 3G evolved UTRAN E UTRAN generally referred to as 4G Long Term Evolution LTE and or LTE Advanced LTE A and or any next generation access network such as for example 5G. In various embodiments RAN may include non 3GPP based access networks such as digital subscriber line DSL Cable wireless local area network WLAN e.g. Wireless Fidelity WiFi Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX and or the Internet. RAN is only one example of a communications interface between an end user and service provider network and or internet . Other suitable types of communications interfaces may be used for any appropriate network design and further be based on specific communications architectures in accordance with particular needs.

In general service provider network represents a series of points or nodes of interconnected communication paths for receiving and transmitting packets of information that may propagate through communication system . In various embodiments service provider network can be configured according to 3GPP standards to include one or more elements of an Evolved Packet Core EPC a packet switched PS architecture and or a circuit switched CS architecture as prescribed by 3GPP standards in order to provide services e.g. voice data multimedia etc. and interconnectivity to UE to one or more packet data networks e.g. internet . In various embodiments internet can represent a packet data network PDN including a series of points or nodes of interconnected communication paths wired or wireless for receiving and transmitting packets of information that propagate through communication system .

In various embodiments service provider network may offer communicative interfaces between UE and selected nodes or elements in the network and may be any local area network LAN wireless local area network WLAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN virtual private network VPN Intranet extranet or any other appropriate architecture or system that facilitates communications in a network environment. In various embodiments communication system may implement a user datagram protocol UDP Internet protocol UDP IP connection and use a transmission control protocol TCP IP communication language protocol in particular embodiments of the present disclosure. However any other suitable communication protocol for transmitting and receiving data packets within communication system may be alternatively implemented.

In some embodiments any of radio access points can be deployed as a macro cell radio such as for example an evolved Node B eNodeB or eNB which can provide cellular mobile coverage for a 4G LTE macro cell network or a Node B NodeB which can provide cellular mobile coverage for a 2G 3G macro cell network. In general a NodeB is deployed in conjunction with a Radio Network Controller RNC which may provide radio control for the NodeB. In various embodiments a given macro cell radio e.g. any of can be responsible for selecting a Mobility Management Entity MME or a serving General Packet Radio Service GPRS support node SGSN within service provider network for session establishment for each UE served by the given macro cell radio for managing radio resources for such UE and making handover HO decisions for such UE for example handover HO to other radio access points e.g. eNodeBs HeNBs and or HNBs . In some embodiments the handover HO decisions can be made in combination with control commands generated by central management system e.g. from RRM system and or SON management system 

In various embodiments any of radio access points can be deployed as a small cell radio such as for example a home evolved NodeB HeNB which can provide cellular mobile coverage for a 4G LTE small cell network and or can be deployed has a Home Node B HNB which can provide cellular mobile coverage for a 2G 3G small cell network. In some embodiments a given small cell radio can be deployed as single stack devices offering 4G LTE or 2G 3G connectivity dual stack devices offering 4G LTE or 2G 3G connectivity and WiFi WiMAX connectivity or triple stack offering 4G LTE connectivity 2G 3G connectivity and WiFi WiMAX connectivity.

Typically small cell radios operate at lower power levels as compared to macro cell radios to provide services to proximate users for example within in a business or residential environment e.g. within a building home etc. . In some embodiments small cell radios can be deployed in business e.g. enterprise environments within predefined clusters grids or groups that can be optimized to provide contiguous or overlapping cellular mobile coverage for enterprise users e.g. employees visitors etc. when such users are located within a coverage area of small cell radios deployed in such a cluster grid. In some embodiments small cell radios can be deployed in residential or densely populate environments to provide cellular wireless connectivity in areas where macro cell radio coverage area s may be limited and or overloaded.

In some embodiments small cell radios can interface with service provider network via one or more small cell gateways not shown which can be used to aggregate and or manage sessions for UE connected to the small cell network. Small cell radios can be connected using a standard broadband digital subscriber line DSL internet or cable service into service provider network via the one or more small cell gateways. Calls can be made and received where the signals are sent potentially encrypted from a given small cell radio via the broadband Internet protocol IP network to one of the service provider s main switching centers. Small cell radios can also interface with small cell management system which can be used to manage configurations for the small cell radios according to a particular communications protocol e.g. technical report TR 069 and data model e.g. TR 196 version 2 . In some embodiments small cell management system can be included within central management system as a stand alone unit or as part of RRM system .

As referred to herein in this Specification a small cell radio can be referred to interchangeably as a small cell a femtocell or a pico cell . As referred to herein in this Specification a macro cell radio can be referred to interchangeably as a macro cell a macro radio or a macro . In various embodiments any of radio access points can be deployed as a stand alone WLAN radio access point to provide wireless e.g. WiFi WiMAX etc. coverage for one or more WLANs which can be managed and or controlled via WLC .

As shown in UE may be served e.g. logically connected to via an over the air interface by a serving or source radio access point as indicated by the solid line between each UE and a corresponding radio access point e.g. UE served by radio access point UE served by radio access point and UE served by radio access point . As referred to herein in the Specification there terms radio access point and base station can be used interchangeably.

As shown in central management system can in various embodiments further include one or more of RRM management system SON management system small cell management system and or WLC each of which can among other things aid in coordinating handover HO decisions for UE within RAN . In addition to RRM system SON management system small cell management system and or WLC various other types of management control nodes can be included within central management system such as for example an Operations Administration and Maintenance OAM node or any other management control node. As referred to herein in this Specification a handover HO may refer to the process as defined in 3GPP standards by which UE connectivity e.g. OTA communications can be transitioned from a serving or source radio access point to a target radio access point. As referred to herein in this Specification a handover may also be referred to as a handover event.

In various embodiments central management system may have visibility of and or may interface with one or more parallel networks such as for example a macro cell network a small cell network a WLAN etc. In various embodiments central management system may also interface with one or more other networks or systems such as for example data analysis system service provider network and or internet in order to coordinate handover HO control admission control congestion control load balancing etc. for any UE e.g. UE within RAN . In essence central management system may maintain a system wide view of communication system which may enable central management system to intelligently manage UE connectivity among different access networks in RAN via RRM system SON management system small cell management system and or WLC . Accordingly central management system can be configured to interface with any element or node of communication system via one or more logical interfaces. In some embodiments central management system can be deployed as part of service provider network can be deployed within a cloud based service architecture and or can be deployed in a service network for a particular deployment such as for example in an enterprise small cell deployment.

In various embodiments data analysis system can via data analytic engine provide one or more calculations estimations etc. generally calculations that can be used by central management system to manage UE connectivity among different access networks in RAN . In various embodiments the calculations can be based on measurement data received from central management system which in turn receive or collect the measurement data from one or more UE e.g. UE and or one or more radio access points e.g. radio access points within RAN .

In various embodiments the location and or platform for data analysis system central management system service provider network and or portions of RAN e.g. non radio interface portions that are typically responsible for control and or data management can be one or more localized units one or more specialized units or part of one or more virtualized computing platforms that can operate as part of or within one or more data centers switching centers cloud based service architectures Software Defined Networks SDNs Network Function Virtualization NFV architectures combinations thereof or the like.

In various embodiments a virtualized computing platform can encompass an emulation of a computer system network etc. operating based on the computer architecture and or functions of a real or hypothetical computer computer system network etc. with particular implementations involving specialized hardware software or a combination of both. In various embodiments a virtualized computing platform may execute or operate via a hypervisor based virtualization or a container based virtualization of a server e.g. blade server rack server stand alone server using the server s hardware e.g. processor and memory element and or operating system. Thus in various embodiments various operational aspects of data analysis system central management system service provider network and or portions of RAN may be virtualized into one or more cloud based service architectures which may allow for distributed management and or control of radio access points within RAN .

Before detailing some of the operational aspects of it is important to understand common characteristics of load management in commercial architectures. The following foundation is offered earnestly for teaching purposes only and therefore should not be construed in any way to limit the broad teachings of the present disclosure.

Mobile networks are generating a very large amount of network measurement data or metrics which are typically in the form of quality and performance measurements. In next generation mobile networks such as a 5G mobile network the amount of measurement data is likely to be even more extensive. In a 5G network the expected density of the base stations e.g. radio access points is likely to increase in order to provide increased network capacity thus contributing to the increase in the amount of measurement data generated by mobile networks. Further the number of mobile terminals UE is expected to increase due to the rise of the Internet of Things IoT e.g. M2M communications connected home etc. which will also contribute to an increased amount of measurement data available. Additionally an increase in the variety of services e.g. multimedia Voice over LTE VoLTE IP services etc. offered to subscribers is likely to increase the amount of measurement data available as such services typically have very distinct Quality of Service QoS requirements. Moreover the introduction to new network architectures such as Software Defined Networks SDNs Network Function Virtualization NFV cloud computing platforms etc. is likely to further increase the amount of measurement data available in mobile networks. By leveraging the vast amount of available measurement data and by applying a Big Data analytic approach e.g. data processing approach for processing large or complex data sets to the measurement data generated by mobile networks it may be possible to provide enhanced flexibilities and performance improvements not only to network operators but also to end users.

In accordance with at least one embodiment communication system is configured to provide a system and method to facilitate radio access point load prediction which can be used to coordinate handover HO decisions among one or more radio access points within RAN . In various embodiments the method provided by communication system may facilitate radio access point load prediction through application of a Big Data analytics approach in the context of Radio Resource Management RRM and Self Organizing Network SON management to improve network performance and resource utilization efficiency. In various embodiments the method provided by communication system can be carried out using one or more hardware processors configured for one or more management entities that may be provided in central management system e.g. RRM system SON management system small cell management system etc. one or more radio access points and or data analytics engine .

In general the concept of a radio access point loading within a RAN can be used to quantify the level of resources that the radio access point is currently utilizing. Thus radio access point loading information can be used to form the basis of many RRM and SON functionalities which may collectively aim to improve the efficiency of resource utilization within communication system e.g. within RAN and or service provider network . In various embodiments RRM functionalities e.g. which can be provided via RRM system can include among other things admission control AC and or congestion control operations. In general admission control operations can be used to limit the admissions of new bearers so that the quality of service QoS of admitted users UE can be maintained at certain levels and congestion control operations can provide a mechanism to react to situations when a radio access point load may be momentarily too high such that traffic flows may be prioritized gated etc. to relieve the congestion. In general a bearer can refer to a virtual connection between two endpoints which can be used to pass traffic which may be associated with a particular service e.g. IP multimedia VoLTE etc. between the two endpoints.

In some cases traffic flows may not be uniformly distribution within RAN . For example it may be possible that some radio access points are experiencing a low level of loading and thereby under utilizing resources while traffic in other radio access points are experiencing a high level of loading and thereby over utilizing resources. In various embodiments SON functionalities e.g. which can be provided via SON management system can include load balancing LB operations. In some embodiments load balancing operations can include redistributing radio access point loads such that RAN resources can be utilized more efficiently. On the other hand if some radio access points are experiencing extremely low level of traffic e.g. they are lightly loaded with UE it may be more energy efficient to allow these radio access points to be switched off and the UE connected thereto to be handed over to one or more neighboring radio access points. Thus in some embodiments SON functionalities can include energy management operations which may seek to maximize energy savings within RAN through power control and load balancing among radio access points 

In accordance with various embodiments communication system may provide a framework for a method to automatically predict a change of radio access point load for one or more source radio access point s and one or more target radio access point s for various potential UE handovers from one or more source radio access point s to one or more target radio access points. Stated another way the framework may in various embodiments provide for a method to calculate estimated loads and or load changes for potential UE handovers such that the estimated loads and or load changes may be used as a basis in determining whether or not to initiate handover of one or more UE between one or more source radio access points and one or more target radio access points. In various embodiments the method can be used for RRM and or SON operations that may be impacted by load information including but not limited to admission control congestion control load balancing energy management combinations thereof or the like.

During operation in at least one embodiment measurement data may be collected e.g. received or gathered for RAN by central management system via one or more elements within central management system e.g. RRM system SON management system small cell management system . Central management system may interface with data analysis system including data analytic engine to analyze the collected measurement data through various data analysis operations. Based on the data analysis operations central management system can generate one or more control and or management command s and may communicate the command s to RAN in order to effectuate control and or management of one or more radio access points and or one or more UE . For example in various embodiments the command s may relate to various RRM operations e.g. admission congestion control etc. and or SON operations e.g. handover decisions for load balancing power control energy management etc. that are to be carried out by one or more radio access points and or one or more UE within RAN .

In some embodiments data analysis operations can include operations that involve developing e.g. performing a series of calculations a statistical model of radio access point loads and or load changes within RAN across a number of collected measurement data samples. Note the general term sample as referred to herein can be used to refer to any data collected in communication system for a corresponding sample time or sample time period. In other embodiments data analysis operations can include operations that involve updating the statistical model using measurement data collected from RAN . In still other embodiments data analysis operations can include operations that involve predicting an estimated load or load change for one or more potential UE handovers using measurement data collected from RAN . In still other embodiments data analysis operations can include operations that involve management or control of RAN e.g. radio access points within RAN based at least in part on application of estimated load or load change information corresponding to one or more potential UE handovers to one or more management or control calculations or decision processes e.g. for load balancing power control energy management etc. 

The term measurement data as referred to herein in this Specification can be associated with different quantities depending on the context of operations that are being described in reference to certain measurement data. As referred to herein in this Specification measurement data used to develop train or update a statistical model can be referred to as historical measurement data or past measurement data. In various embodiments historical data can be associated with both one or more source and one or more target radio access point which can be collected both before and after one or more UE handovers. For example load or load change data collected both before and after one or more UE handovers can be considered historical data which can be used to train or re train e.g. updated a given statistical model.

As referred to herein in this Specification measurement data used to predict an estimated load load change or any other network behavior for one or more potential UE handovers can be referred to as current or new measurement data or observation data . In various embodiments current measurement data can be associated with load data collected for a source radio access point and a target radio access point which can be used to predict a load or load change for one or more potential UE handovers through application of the current measurement data to a trained statistical model. Following one or more UE handovers additional current measurement data can be collected which may be associated with the actual load or load change following the one or more UE handovers. The combination of current measurement data that can be collected to predict a network behavior e.g. load or load change before one or more UE handovers and current measurement data collected following one or more UE handovers e.g. actual load or load change measured for the RAN can become historical or past measurement data as current measurement data can be successively collected and stored through time for use in re training e.g. updating a statistical model.

Consider a general operational example in which it is desired to know the potential impact e.g. estimated load and or load change of a potential UE handover of a given UE say for example UE from source radio access point to a particular target radio access point say for example radio access point . Assume for purposes of the present example that a statistical model has been formulated that may quantify loads and or load changes among radio access points using number of historical measurement data samples collected from RAN e.g. data collected before and after UE handovers . In general the formulation process for the statistical model can be referred to as training the statistical model to converge towards e.g. minimize a certain error criterion. In various embodiments statistical models can be trained using supervised training or unsupervised training. For supervised training input data e.g. data collected before one or more UE handovers and outcome data e.g. data collected following one or more UE handovers can be used to train a statistical model. For unsupervised training only input data may be used to train a statistical model. According to the various embodiments described herein supervised training methodologies are described in which both input and output data are considered in training a statistical model.

For some statistical models such as for example for multiple regression modeling the error criterion can be mean square error criteria or least squares criteria as it is sometimes referenced. In various embodiments the error criterion can be used to train the statistical model e.g. update variables variable weighting etc. of the model to minimize the error between predicted loads or load changes calculated using the model and actual measured loads or load changes for historical measurement data collected for a number of past UE handover events.

In some embodiments a range of error values can be configured for training operations such that the training may continue until the error is minimized within the configured range. Once the statistical model is sufficiently trained the model can be used to predict estimated loads or load changes for one or more potential UE handover events using current measurement data collected from RAN .

In various embodiments the current measurement data can include signal strength information or path loss information associated with source radio access point and target radio access point which may be measured by one or more of UE associated with the source radio access point e.g. UE and or UE and or the source radio access point itself e.g. via one or more network listen operations in which radio access point measures signal strength information for one or more neighboring radio access points such as radio access point . Measurement data collected from RAN can also include other types of data as described for various embodiments discussed herein.

In various embodiments signal strength or path loss information can be associated with any type of channel quality Q indicator for 3GPP based and or non 3GPP based signal strength quality measurements depending on deployment type. In some embodiments for example 3GPP based signal strength quality measurements can include Reference Signal Received Power RSRP Reference Signal Received Quality RSRQ Received Signal Strength Indicator RSSI e.g. for E UTRAN carrier signals Common Pilot Channel CPICH energy per chip to total power spectral density Ec Io and or CPICH Received Signal Code Power RSCP as defined in 3GPP standards. As defined in 3GPP TS 36.214 RSRP is the linear average over the power contributions of resource elements for resource blocks RBs that carry cell specific reference signals CRS within a considered measurement frequency bandwidth. RSRQ is defined as the ratio of the number N of RBs of the E UTRAN carrier RSSI measurement bandwidth e.g. system bandwidth multiplied by the RSRP divided by the RSSI generally expressed as N RSRP RSSI . In general a given UE can measure determine signal strength information such as for example RSRP and or RSRQ for a serving cell and if enable can also measure determine such information for non serving cells e.g. neighboring cells . Thus in various embodiments RSRP and or RSRQ measurements for neighboring radio access points can be enabled for UE . In some embodiments for example non 3GPP based signal quality measurements can include RSSI e.g. for WLAN radio access points Received Channel Power Indicator RCPI combinations thereof or other similar signal strength information.

In various embodiments RSRP and RSRQ measurements can be used to indicate how good or bad the signal for a given UE is between the UE and one or more radio access points. Generally a direct relationship can exist between the signal quality or signal strength of a given UE and the level of load contribution of the UE to a given radio access point. Such a relationship is typically dependent on the radio technology used. For example in the context of LTE radio resources are typically described by the number of frequency time units or RBs for short that are required to support a given QoS requirement for a bearer of a UE given a certain channel quality. The bit rate supported by a single RB is dependent on the channel quality. Thus if a UE has a bad channel quality the per RB bit rate is low and so more RBs are required to support a given QoS requirement. The reverse can be true for a UE having a good channel quality. In another example say for wideband CDMA WCDMA radio resources are typically associated with the total transmit power in the downlink and the total received power in the uplink for a given UE. The receiver of a UE having a bad channel quality typically requires a higher transmit power to be able to decode a downlink signal properly and vice versa.

Thus in various embodiments signal quality or signal strength measurement information can be used as an indicator of load for a given radio access point based on a given relationship that may be determined between signal strength or quality information and load for radio access points. It should be noted that embodiments of the present disclosure do not depend on formulating an exact relationship between signal strength quality information for radio access points or for any particular radio access technology RAT type rather the formulation of any direct relationship that can be used to relate signal strength quality information to loads or load changes can be used within the scope of the embodiments of the present disclosure in order to predict loads or load changes or any other network behavior according to a given statistical model or methodology.

Returning to the present operational example the current measurement data can be applied as input values to the trained statistical model via one or more data analysis operations performed via central management system and data analysis system e.g. via data analytic engine to predict an estimated load or load change for source radio access point and target radio access point for the potential handover of UE . In one sense the predicted load or load change can be viewed as output values related by the trained statistical model to the set of input values e.g. current measurement data . In some embodiments based on the estimated load or load change a determination can be made regarding whether or not to initiate the handover of UE to target radio access point e.g. if the predicted load is to be used for load balancing operations a determination can be made as to whether the load in the RAN becomes more or less balanced among the radio access points . In some embodiments the estimated load or load change can be used as input values for additional calculations and or operations such as for example power management operations which may be managed according to some other statistical model methodology or algorithm s . In some embodiments current measurement data can be accumulated or stored through time in order to re train e.g. update the statistical model used for predicting estimated loads or load changes for RAN .

Accordingly the method provided by communication system may provide a powerful technology agnostic framework for a method to predict loads and or load changes in RAN using one or more statistical models and measurement data e.g. historical and current collected from RAN . Additionally the method may provide for the ability to use predicted loads and or load changes as inputs to other algorithms statistical models methodologies etc. which may provide for the efficient management and or control of RAN .

A discussion is now provided which describes an example algorithmic framework for the load prediction method that can be provided in accordance with at least one embodiment of communication system . Certain variables are used to describe the framework including the variable i which may be used to identify a particular source radio access point and the variable j which may be used to identify a particular target radio access point for various load load change predictions for one or more handover HO events.

For example let x x be the x percentile of the channel quality Q at a given UE served by a particular serving source radio access point i. If the UE were to perform a HO to a particular target radio access point j the x percentile of the channel quality Q at the UE associated with the target radio access point j can be represented as x x . The channel quality Q can be any signal strength quality measurement as discussed herein. The difference between the two quantities can be represented as shown in Equation 1 such that Eq. 1 

Furthermore let and represent the loads of the radio access points associated with i and j before a potential handover occurs and let the loads and represent the loads for the respective radio access points over after the potential handover such that the estimates for the loads represented as shown in Equations 2 and 3 such that circumflex over 1 2 . . . Eq. 2 circumflex over 1 2 . . . Eq. 3 

For Equations 2 and 3 respectively Nand Nrepresent the number of neighbors associated with radio access points i and j. In some embodiments it may not be necessary to take into account the loads of radio access points which are not involved in the handover e.g. neighboring radio access points such that Equations 2 and 3 can be reduced to Equations 4 and 5 respectively as circumflex over Eq. 4 circumflex over Eq. 5 

In various embodiments the functions . and . can correspond to given statistical models that can be used to predict the new load of the source and target radio access points after the occurrence of the potential handover respectively. Thus in various embodiments load prediction as provided by communication system can be generally reduced to 1 formulating statistical models to predict source and target radio access point loads and 2 using the models to predict new estimated loads circumflex over circumflex over given the current state x of the system e.g. using current measurement data .

In some embodiments the term x may be used to compress the two variables x x and x x into a single variable. The advantage of doing so might be to reduce the number of variables for a given model which may therefore make the model more succinct. However it is possible that the each of the variables may have a different impact on a given model. Thus in some embodiments it may be advantageous to express the individual variables explicitly as shown in Equations 6 and 7 such that circumflex over Eq. 6 circumflex over Eq. 7 

In various embodiments it is possible to take into account other parameters in a given load definition e.g. as shown in Equation 1 . For example if a user connected to radio access point i is transmitting using an active bearer with a guaranteed bit rate GBR of tilde over R Equations 6 and 7 can be modified in some embodiments to include the GBR as shown in Equations 8 and 9 respectively such that circumflex over Eq. 8 circumflex over Eq. 9 

For Equations 8 and 9 Z tilde over R can represent the additional parameter that may impact the load definition. Moreover if in some embodiments a certain delay requirement tilde over has an impact to a given load definition the parameter Zcan easily be modified to represent a vector e.g. Z tilde over R tilde over and so on depending on the load definition for a given statistical model. It is important to note that if multiple bearers e.g. for different services are involved for the same user connected to radio access point i each element of the parameter vector Zmay represent the aggregated value over all bearers for the same user. For example the parameter tilde over R may now represent the averaged GBR over all bearers of the same user.

It is also important to note that the concept of including additional parameters such as Zis very powerful as it opens to door to many different types of information and or measurements that may available in communication system to be used in predicting estimated loads for one or more UE handovers for one or more source and target radio access points. For example in some embodiments the framework of the method provided by communication system may allow relative UE and or radio access point positioning information to be easily incorporated as additional parameters with minimal modification to a given model used for predicting estimated loads or load changes.

In various embodiments any additional parameters can be included in a load definition including but not limited to QoS Class Identifier QCI Maximum Bit Rate MBR Allocation and Retention Priority ARP Access Point Name APN Aggregate Maximum Bit Rate A AMBR UE Aggregate Maximum Bit Rate UE AMBR combinations thereof or the like. QCI is typically used in LTE deployments and contains a set of indices in which each index identifies a particular QoS class. In various embodiments each QoS class can correspond to a set of parameters that define resource allocation of a service such as priority Packet Delay Budget PDB and or Packet Error Loss Rate PELR each of which can be defined by one or more operator and or service provider requirements.

In general ARP refers to priority for allocation of a bearer or service. In general A AMBR can refer to the maximum allowed total non GBR throughput to a specific APN e.g. internet or any other APN . In some cases A AMBR can be specified individually for downlink communications e.g. communications toward UE and for uplink communications e.g. communications from UE . In general UE AMBR can refer to the maximum allowed total non GBR throughput for all APNs to which a given UE is communicating. Typically QCI ARP GBR and MBR are associated with GBR bearers while QCI ARP A AMBR and UE AMBR are typically associated with non GBR bearers.

In some embodiments an additional parameter that can be included is an identifier indicating whether or not a bearer belongs to GBR or non GBR bearer classes. A GBR bearer has a guaranteed bit rate while a non GBR bearer does not. Although whether a bearer belongs to GBR or non GBR is typically captured in QCI such a further distinction of GBR or non GBR can be used in isolation for statistical modelling if an operator or service provider does not want to capture the other effects that are contained within the QCI.

In still some embodiments an operator or service provider may desire to include additional parameters related to a subscriber level quality differentiation. For example if a UE subscriber belongs to a gold level class then it may have priority over a silver or bronze class of UE. Thus subscriber based differentiations can also be captured in a statistical model. The aforementioned examples of additional parameters are only a few of the many parameters that can be captured in a model definition etc. using the teachings of the present disclosure. It should be understood that any additional information can be captured in a statistical model load definition etc. as may be desired by a network operator and or service provider within the scope of the teachings of the present disclosure.

In some embodiments it may be useful to estimate the difference in load e.g. load change before and after a given potential handover rather than estimating the actual load itself. In such embodiments the estimated load differences can be re written as shown in Equations 10 and 11 such that circumflex over Eq. 10 circumflex over Eq. 11 

For Equations 10 and 11 respectively circumflex over and circumflex over can represent the estimates of the load differences and . Further for Equations 10 and 11 the parameter x may be assumed to be an independent variable rather than representing the absolute values x x and x x .

In various embodiments one advantage of the formulations described above are that they are agnostic to any exact given model that may be used for predicting loads or load changes. In other words the framework of the method provided by communication system may be reduced generally to establishing set of parameters associated with a given statistical model relating a set of input values to a set of output values. For example for Equations 10 and 11 the output values are and although it should be understood that the same methodology can apply to other scenarios where different parameters may be involved. As the exact statistical model for predicting load is not involved for formulation of the equations discussed above the framework of the method provided by communication system is not sensitive to any change deployment scenario. Thus the framework of the method provided by communication system can potentially be applied to scenarios where multiple vendors are potentially involved.

Turning back to Equation 11 the index i is used to refer to the identity of a given source radio access point. In some embodiments radio access point specific impacts in estimating a load increase of a given target radio access point j may be present for a given model. However in general the load increase may be agnostic to the identity of the source cell. Thus by excluding the source cell identity a statistical model can be built based on a more diverse set of data sources. In some embodiments an advantage of excluding the source cell identity is that more data can be used to train a given model and that the input data e.g. measurement data can span a wider region within a given sample space for the model.

In various embodiments the framework of the method provided by communication system can be applied if the objective is to estimate the decrease in radio access point load of a given source radio access point. In such embodiments the identity of a given target radio access point may be omitted for a given model. Moreover in various embodiments the framework provided by communication system can be applied to cases in which it is desired to predict estimated loads or load changes for one or more cells of one or more macro cell radio s and or small cell radio s e.g. for 3GPP based deployments of radio access points . Cell radios can often serve multiple cells in a given coverage area. The cells are typically distinguished via Primary Scrambling Codes PSCs for example for 3G deployments or are distinguished via Physical Cell Identities PCIs for example for 4G LTE deployments or can be distinguished using other identifiers as may be provided by 3GPP standards. Thus using the framework of the method provided by communication system estimated cell loads or cell load changes can also be predicted using one or more statistical models that include parameters to characterize loads for cells of one or more cell radios.

Thus in various embodiments the framework of the method provided by communication system can use data analytics within the context of Big Data based on the measurement capability of the network including but not limited to facilities such as Minimal Drive Test MDT . Although such a framework is flexible in that it does not restrict a particular statistical or machine learning methodology to be used a multiple regression example for a given statistical model represented by the function . for Equation 11 is provided below which illustrates how the framework of the method provided by communication system can be applied in at least one embodiment. It should be understood however that the multiple regression example discussed below is only one example of a statistical model that can be used according to the framework discussed herein. Any other statistical model can be used within the scope of the present disclosure.

For the multiple regression example described herein the focus is on load prediction of a target radio access point due to a potential handover of a given UE thus Equation 11 is more relevant to the example. In an embodiment in which the prediction is agnostic to the source cell identity the parameters in Equation 11 can be replaced by x and Z. However it is important to note that the method provided by the framework of communication system can be applied irrespective of x Z or x Z .

For the multiple regression example let be the set of parameters for the model . used to predict load changes as described in Equation 11. Furthermore as an illustration let S n x n be a tuple of observation data e.g. current measurement data associated with an n th handover event for a given target radio access point j. Thus in various embodiments the exercise of formulating model . can reduce to using the data set of S n 1 2 . . . N to obtain such that a certain error criteria represented as g circumflex over are minimized. A common criterion such as the mean square error criterion is the represented as shown in Equation 12 below ERROR Eq. 12 

For Equation 12 E . refers to the expectation operator. The criterion represented by Equation 12 is sometimes referred to as the least squares method. For the multiple regression example further let X X X . . . X where Xis the i th input independent variable and Y is the dependent variable e.g. the output variable that is value that is desired to be predicted. Accordingly the general regression model can take on the form shown in Equation 13 such that Eq. 13 

For Equation 13 the s can represent unknown parameters and the function h . can be used to transform the variable Xin case it is desired to model any nonlinearity. It is important to note that even if h . may be a nonlinear function the general regression model as shown in Equation 13 is still a linear model as it is the . . . that are sought to be to optimized according to the error criterion. Using the above general regression model and assuming X h X for some X without the loss of generality Equation 13 can be re written as shown in Equation 14 such that Eq. 14 

Equation 14 is often referred to generally as a multiple linear regression model. Applying Equation 11 to Equation 14 using the least square criterion shown in Equation 12 note other potential inputs are ignored for now for illustrative simplicity without the loss of generality the solution to coefficient s for N samples of measurement data can be obtained as shown in Equations 15 thru 18 as Eq. 1 where Eq. 2 1 2 . . . Eq. 3 1 1 2 . . . Eq. 4 

It should be noted that the subscript 2 for Equations 15 18 has been used merely to relate the solution to obtain the coefficient s shown in Equation 15 to the load model . e.g. as shown in Equation 11 . As shown in Equation 16 Xcan represent a matrix which can be the collection of vectors xbased on N samples of measurement data e.g. the independent variable of the load model . It should be understood that measurement data can include past or historical measurement data that can be used to train or update the multiple linear regression model or can be new or current measurement data e.g. observation data can be applied to the trained model in order to predict a load change for one or more potential UE handovers. As shown in Equation 17 ycan represent the dependent e.g. output variables e.g. load changes or predicted load changes for the N samples.

As discussed previously the framework for the method provided by communication system is agnostic to the exact definition of radio access point load or load changes for any given model. Thus in the context of the multiple regression example the general model as shown in Equation 14 can be modified to account for any change to the load model . by adjusting the intermediate variable xaccordingly. For example if GBR is deemed critical in defining the load change for one or more radio access points for one or more potential handover events the multiple linear regression model provided by Equation 14 can be modified in various embodiments to account for the change in the load model e.g. update Equation 11 to include GBR information by adjusting the intermediate variable x as shown in Equation 19 such that 1 2 . . . Eq. 5 

Thus as shown in Equation 19 the intermediate variable can account for GBR via the tilde over R variable. Consider another example in which it is determined that the load of the source radio access point i has a potential impact to the target radio access point load increase. Thus the variable xcan simply be modified as shown in Equation 20 such that 1 1 2 . . . Eq. 20 

Referring back now to the general multiple regression model shown in Equation 14 a predicted load change of the target radio access point j after a potential handover for a certain UE given a new or current set of data measurements at time n e.g. as opposed to past or historical data measurements used for training may be calculated as shown in Equation 21 such that circumflex over Eq. 21 

For Equation 21 x are the observed data vector e.g. current measurement data at time n before the potential handover to the target radio access point j may be initiated.

In various embodiments one advantage of using a multiple regression model to predict a radio access point load or load change is that the mathematical framework of such a statistical model is well understood. For example the accuracy of the estimated parameters e.g. predicted loads or load changes can be quantified and the accuracy of the statistical model can be assessed e.g. using a certain error criterion to fine tune the model thereby providing a large amount of flexibility for adjusting the parameters of the model in order improve the accuracy for predicting loads or load changes for one or more potential UE handovers for one or more radio access points.

Further in some embodiments techniques such as variable subset selection can be used to potentially improve accuracy for the statistical model as well as model interpretability. Further in some embodiments dimensionality reduction techniques can potentially be applied on top of regression analysis to predict loads or load changes. It should be understood however that other statistical models can be used other than the multiple regression model discussed in the present example. The multiple regression example discussed herein is only one of the many statistical models that can be used to predict loads or load changes for one or more potential UE handovers. For example in various embodiments a given statistical model can be a decision tree model a neural network model or the like. In various embodiments other statistical methodologies could be used to predict loads or load changes including but not limited to decision tree regression model averaging boosting algorithms etc. Thus the framework of the method provided by communication system can be applied to any statistical model and or algorithm that may be used to predict loads or load changes within the scope of the teachings of the present disclosure.

Although the general framework for the method provided by communication system and the multiple regression example discussed above have been described with respect to a singular potential UE handover for a given UE e.g. any of UE the framework for the method provided by communication system can be modified to predict loads or load changes for multiple UE handovers from one or more source radio access points to one more target radio access points. Thus in various embodiments the framework of the method provided by communication system can be modified to account for multiple handover events also referred to herein as M fold handover events.

For example the load prediction method provided by communication system gathers the statistics of a target radio access point load before and after handover of a UE occurs. In some embodiments a load or load change estimation may need to be averaged over some time interval in order to smooth out the variations in measurement data. For example in some cases if the handover rate for a given deployment is very high e.g. lots of users moving in out of radio access point coverage areas more than one handover event may occur during e.g. M fold handover events . As a result of such M fold handover events an observed load or load change can include load contributions due to multiple UE handovers from a given source radio access point. Thus the visibility of a load contribution due to the potential handover of a single user may be lost.

In various embodiments M fold handover events can be accounted for in a given statistical model by adjusting the model accordingly. For example consider the multiple regression example discussed above. In some embodiments the general multiple regression model as shown in Equation 14 can be modified to account for M handover events that may have occurred within a given time window . An example modification of Equation 14 is shown in Equation 22 below as tilde over tilde over Eq. 22 

For Equation 22 tilde over X may represent the load increase of a given target radio access point j due to M handovers within a given time window and the quantities Xand may correspond respectively to the input data e.g. measurement data and the regression coefficient for the m th handover within the given time interval . The same procedure as outlined earlier applies. In certain embodiments it can be assumed that the variables Xare not dependent on the order of UE handovers within the time window which is often a reasonable assumption such that for example . Based on such an assumption the average load increase X due to a single handover within the time can be expressed as shown in Equation 23 below as 

For Equation 23 by letting tilde over M and X X M the formulation to account for M fold handover events can be expressed as shown in Equation 24 below as Eq. 24 

It should be noted that based on the substitution for and Xshown above Equation 24 is the original expression for the general multiple regression model as illustrated in Equation 14. In various embodiments the approximation of aggregating the variables Xinto a single variable Xcan be made based on simple averaging however any more refined approximations can be made to aggregate the variables Xinto a single variable Xwithin the scope of the teachings of the present disclosure. Moreover in various embodiments the modification of the model to account for M fold handover events can also be applied to cases in which there are multiple bearers for each UE.

Accordingly the system and method provided by communication system may allow many types of statistical and or machine learning models algorithms etc. to be used for predicting a load or load change for one or more potential handover events. In various embodiments the system and method provided by communication system may provide for forming a realizable and or quantifiable link between Big Data analytics e.g. via data analysis system and data analytic engine and management and or control e.g. via central management system of any of one or more nodes e.g. radio access points and or one or more UE e.g. UE of any radio access network e.g. RAN for any radio access technology RAT type e.g. 3GPP based non 3GPP based . In various embodiments the management and or control can encompass radio resource management control e.g. via RRM system SON management control e.g. via SON management system small cell network management control e.g. via small cell management system combinations thereof or the like.

More particularly by providing the ability to predict any network behaviors such as for example radio access point load or load change the system and method provided by communication system offers a pro active approach to SON management control rather than the traditional reactive approach where adaptations are primarily based on past measurements. Moreover the system and method provided by communication system may in various embodiments provide a technology agnostic framework for predicting any network behaviors that may not be tied to any specific assumptions and or modelling such for example load definition interference model network topology etc. which may be specific to a particular network and or technology type e.g. 3GPP based or non 3GPP based . Instead particular details for any particular network and or technology type can be automatically absorbed into a given statistical model based on actual data e.g. measurement data gathered for a given network. As a result the system and method provided by communication system can be relatively straightforward to deploy in any environment and may be particularly useful in a Heterogeneous Network HetNet environment in which multiple RAT types may be present.

Turning to is a simplified flow diagram illustrating example operations associated with providing prediction for a network behavior in accordance with one potential embodiment of communication system . Although various examples discussed herein are provided with respect to a given network behavior e.g. load or load change the method provided by communication system can be applied to predict any network behavior as illustrated through operations .

Prior to performing operations associated with providing prediction for a certain network behavior operations can include training at a statistical model representing a network behavior a radio access network including one or more radio access points. In various embodiments the statistical model can be trained using at least in part historical measurement data gathered from the radio access network that is associated with multiple previous UE handovers among the radio access points. The historical measurement data used to train the statistical model can include data gathered before and after the previous UE handovers for source and target radio access points in the RAN. In various embodiments the statistical model can be trained using data analytic engine using at least in part historical measurement data collected from RAN via central management system e.g. using one or more nodes within central management system both before and after one or more UE handovers.

In various embodiments the statistical model can be trained using an error criterion such that one or more parameters of the model may be adjusted during the training such that an error between network behavior predictions output by the model and actual network behavior measured for the radio access network may be minimized. In some embodiments the error criterion can be based on a mean square error criterion for minimizing the error between network behavior predictions and actual network behavior. In some embodiments a determination can be made regarding whether the statistical model is sufficiently trained based on comparison to an expected error criterion range such that if the error e.g. mean square error between the outcome of the network behavior prediction and the actual network behavior converges to within a predetermined range then the statistical model can be deemed sufficient to perform network prediction operations as discussed herein.

Following training of the statistical model the statistical model can be used to predict network behavior beginning at in which the operations can include determining whether a prediction for the network behavior is needed. For example in some embodiments central management system may determine that loading congestion UE admission etc. for RAN should be managed optimized etc. through one or more UE handovers among radio access points . Thus a prediction of network behavior may be needed. If no prediction is needed the operations may end.

If however a prediction of the network behavior is needed the operations can continue to in which current measurement data associated with a source radio access point and a target radio access point in the radio access network can be collected. At the operations can include calculating a predicted network behavior for the radio access network for one or more potential UE handover s from the source radio access point to a target radio access point based at least in part on application of the current measurement data to the trained statistical model and the operations may return to to determine whether another prediction for the network behavior is needed.

In general operations and illustrate the core of the framework for the method provided by communication system . However one advantage of the method provided by communication system is that the accuracy of a given statistical model to accurately predict a given network behavior can be fine tuned using successive collections of measurement data gathered before and after UE may be handed over to one or more target radio access points can following one or more network behavior predictions. Thus in various embodiments the method provided by communication system can provide for re training a given statistical model across time that that model can be used to more accurately predict a given network behavior.

Thus in some embodiments current measurement data collected at can be stored at . In various embodiments the current measurement data can be stored in one or more memory elements storages e.g. databases associated with data analysis system and or central management system . Again the prediction of network behavior can be calculated at and in some embodiments a determination can be made at whether or not to initiate one or more UE handovers based on the result of the network behavior prediction. If it is determined that no handovers are to be initiated the operations can return to as discussed above. However if it is determined that one or more UE handovers are to be initiated the operations continue to in which the one or more UE handovers can be initiated to handover the one or more UE to the target radio access point. In various embodiments the UE handovers can be initiated via one or more commands generated via central management system and communicated to RAN .

At measurement data associated with actual network behavior of the radio access network after the handover of the one or more UE to the target radio access point can be collected and stored. At the statistical model can be updated using the successive collections of current measurement data and measurement data associated with actual network behavior for one or more UE handovers.

In various embodiments the updating at can occur at predetermined time intervals e.g. in hours minutes etc. at predetermined times of day e.g. noon midnight rush hour etc. as radio access points are taken online offline e.g. to handle increased decreased user traffic combinations thereof or the like as may be determined by a network operator and or service provider. Thus as shown in the method provided by communication system can provide a powerful framework for predicting network behavior for a variety of network conditions statistical models etc. to provide for control and or management of one or more radio access points and or one or more UE that may be associated with RAN .

Additional flow diagrams are provided herein below to illustrate other example operations that can be performed to predict particular network behaviors in accordance with various embodiments of communication system .

Turning to is a simplified flow diagram illustrating example operations associated with providing radio access point load prediction in a network environment in accordance with one potential embodiment of communication system . In general operations illustrate application of the general operational framework illustrated in to the specific application of predicting load or load changes for one or more potential UE handovers for RAN . Operations associated with updating the statistical model discussed in are not discussed for purposes of brevity however it should be understood that operations and as discussed for can be applied to the example load prediction operations discussed below in accordance with various embodiments of communication system .

Prior to performing operations associated with providing radio access point load predictions for one or more potential UE handovers operations can include training at a statistical model representing radio access point loads or load changes for a plurality of radio access points using at least in part historical measurement data associated with previous UE handovers among the radio access points. In various embodiment the historical measurement data can include data collected both before and after the UE handovers which can be used to train the statistical model towards a certain error criterion based on the error e.g. mean square error between the outcome of load or load change predictions calculated during the training and actual loads or load changes measured for the radio access points following the UE handovers.

Following training of the statistical model to predict loads or load changes the statistical model can be used to predict loads or load changes beginning at in which the operations can include determining whether a prediction for a load or load change is needed. For example in some embodiments central management system may determine that loading energy savings etc. for RAN should be managed optimized etc. through one or more UE handovers among radio access points . Thus a prediction of a load or load change may be needed. If no prediction is needed the operations may end.

If however a prediction of a load or load change is needed the operations can continue to in which current measurement data associated with a source radio access point and a target radio access point in the radio access network can be collected. In various embodiments the current measurement data can include current channel quality information which can be used to determine a current load for the source radio access point and the target radio access point. At the operations can include calculating a predicted load or load change for a target radio access point for one or more potential UE handover s from the source radio access point to the target radio access point based at least in part on application of the current measurement data to the trained statistical model and the operations may return to to determine whether another prediction of a load or load change for one or more potential UE handovers is needed.

Thus as shown in the method provided by communication system can facilitate prediction of loads or load changes for one or more radio access points within RAN . In some embodiments based on the load or load change prediction additional operations can be provided to determine whether or not to initiate handover of one or more UE. In some embodiments a load or load change prediction e.g. outcome of current measurement data to a given statistical model can be further applied to another algorithm and or statistical model that may represent some other change within RAN which may influence the decision of whether or not to initiate handover of one or more UE.

For example in some embodiments UE loads or load changes can be associated with a model or algorithm that can be to estimate energy consumption and or maximum energy savings that may be realized by for a given radio access network if one or more radio access points are taken offline e.g. powered down and the UE connected thereto handed over to one or more neighboring radio access points. Understanding how load or load predictions can be applied a model or algorithm to estimate a maximum energy savings may be best illustrated in the context of a radio access network that includes both macro and small cell radios such as the radio access network illustrated in the example use case illustrated in .

Turning to is a simplified block diagram illustrating an example radio access network use case for an example radio access network that can be associated with one potential embodiment of communication system which can provide a method for determining a maximum energy savings based on or more predicted load changes for one or more potential UE handovers within RAN . includes RAN which can include a number of radio access points such as for example small cell radios e.g. HNBs and or HeNBs which may be part of a small cell deployment small cell network and a macro cell radio e.g. NodeB or NodeB which may be part of a macro cell deployment macro cell network. Also shown in are a number of UE which may have the same capabilities as UE as shown in according to various embodiments of the present disclosure. Each small cell radio may serve a corresponding small cell coverage area which is illustrated by the smaller dashed line circle surrounding each small cell radio . Macro cell radio may serve a corresponding macro cell coverage area which is illustrated by the larger dashed line circle surrounding macro cell radio and small cell radios 

As shown in UE are currently served by small cell radio within the cell coverage area small dashed line circle provided by small cell radio UE are currently served by small cell radio within the cell coverage area provided by small cell radio and UE are currently served by small cell radio within the cell coverage area provided by small cell radio . As UE and are outside the cell coverage areas of any small cell radio UE can be served by macro cell radio within the macro overlay cell coverage area shown by the large dashed line circle provided by macro cell radio .

Typically the energy consumption of a given cell radio macro or small can consist of a fixed component which exists irrespective of whether there is any traffic supported by the cell radio e.g. any UE connected to the cell radio as well as a component which is dependent on the level of traffic supported by the cell radio. In at least one embodiment one general approach to providing energy saving for a RAN may be to set a trigger that if a particular small cell radio is experiencing a low level of traffic one or more operations can be triggered to determine whether it may be more efficient to handover the UEs currently served by the small cell radio to another small cell radio or another layer e.g. to a neighboring macro cell radio and if so then a handover can be initiated for the UEs and the particular small cell radio can be turned off thereby removing the energy overhead for the RAN due to the fixed energy component of the particular small cell radio. By switching off small cells during off peak hours energy can be reduced. In some cases this energy saving can have a significant impact to operating expenditures OPEX in network deployments.

Although the general energy saving method described above can take place in many different scenarios for the purpose of illustration a scenario is considered where there is a macro overlay e.g. macro cell coverage area served by macro cell radio which is represented for algorithmic purposes as macro cell radio m and Nsmall cells e.g. small cell coverage areas served by small cell radios which are represented for algorithmic purposes as macro cell radios i where i 1 2 . . . Nfor the Nsmall cells within the macro overlay and the index of any small cell radio i is not the same as the index for macro cell radio m. Further let be the cell load of the macro overlay and be a parameter representing a maximum allowable load for macro m. Note that the macro overlay provided by macro cell radio may use the same or different frequency as those used by the small cell radios for their corresponding cell coverage areas.

Further let represent the i th smallest predicted increase in macro cell load after a handover of all users served by a given small cell radio i . The notation i refers to the index of the source cell which give rise to the i th smallest load contribution to the target cell m. In other words as shown in Equation 25 . . . Eq. 25 

In various embodiments the load contribution quantity can be based on the addition of the estimated load contribution from each user from cell i based on a given trained model e.g. as shown in Equation 21 or any other prediction method. The load contribution quantity includes the estimated macro load following the potential handover of the users via the variable circumflex over . In some embodiments the estimation of the load increase can be calculated by adding an estimated load contribution of each user from served by a given small cell radio i based on a trained model such as for example the contribution as represented in Equation 21 above or any other prediction method within the scope of the present disclosure.

In various embodiments the method for determining a maximum energy savings for a given RAN e.g. RAN can generally provide for determining a set of cell radios that can be turned off and have the UE connected thereto handed over to another cell radio without violating the load constraint of the other cell radio. Thus in various embodiments the method of determining a maximum energy savings can include either 1 solving an optimization problem to determine a set of small cell radios that can be turned off that will maximize energy savings the RAN within a given target macro cell radio load constraint or 2 solving an optimization problem to determine a set of small cell radios that can be turned off that will minimize energy consumption within the RAN thereby maximizing energy savings for the RAN.

Regardless of which optimization problem may be chosen the method provided communication system for determining a maximum energy savings can include determine a set of small cell radios that belong to a set S 1 2 . . . N note the bracket notation is typically used to denote an ordered set such that by turning off and handing over UE connected to the small cell radios to a target macro cell radio a maximum energy savings for the RAN can be realized while managing the load for the macro cell radio to less than or equal to a given .

Thus it should be understood that the goal of providing a maximum energy savings is the same for both of the optimization problems. Accordingly any other optimization problem can be provided within the scope of the present disclosure the illustration of the two optimization problems merely exemplifies the high flexibility that communication system affords for characterizing or predicting a multitude of possible network behaviors.

Consider in a first operational example that the method provided by communication system can provide for determining a maximum energy saving for a given RAN e.g. RAN by solving an optimization problem characterizing the maximum energy savings to determine a set of small cell radios belonging to a set S 1 2 . . . N such that by turning off and handing over UE connected to the small cell radios to a target macro cell radio e.g. macro cell radio energy savings for the RAN can be maximized the load for the macro cell radio to be limited to be less than or equal to a given . Upon solving the optimization problem and determining the set of small cell radios that provide for the maximized energy savings handovers can be initiated for the corresponding UE served by each corresponding small cell radio in the set and then each small cell radio can be powered down. Equation 26 shown below can represent an example optimization problem that can be solved to determine a maximum energy savings for the RAN in accordance with various embodiments of communication system . max Eq. 66 

As noted one goal of the method for determining a maximized energy savings can be to turn off as many small cell radios i as macro cell radio m can absorb without violating the load constraint for the macro cell radio. Thus in some embodiments the operations for determining a maximum energy saving for a given RAN e.g. RAN can include determining predicted load increases for a given macro cell radio m e.g. macro cell radio for one or more potential UE handovers from one or more source small cell radios e.g. using a given statistical model for a given load model. The predicted load changes can then be applied to the optimization problem for various potential handover scenarios in order to determine a number of small cell radios belonging to the set S 1 2 . . . N .

In some embodiments as noted above the method provided by communication system for determining a maximum energy savings for a given RAN e.g. RAN can be enhanced to include energy consumption considerations such that a different optimization problem can be solved in order to maximize energy savings for the RAN. In various embodiments total energy consumption for a given small cell radio can be represented as shown in Equation 27. Eq. 77 

For Equation 27 Emay represent the total energy consumption of a given small cell radio i where tilde over E is the fixed energy consumption which is independent of the traffic load and h is the load dependent energy consumption for the small cell radio. Further let circumflex over represent the predicted load of macro cell radio m after the potential handover of all users connected to small cell radio i. Based on the energy consumption characterization represented in Equation 27 an optimization problem for minimizing energy consumption in a given RAN e.g. RAN can be provided as shown in Equation 28 which can be solved to determine small cell radios belonging to the set S 1 2 . . . N subject to a constraint as shown in Equation 29 in order to minimize energy consumption within the RAN thereby maximizing energy savings for the RAN.

For Equations 28 and 29 can represent the set of small cell radios within the macro overlay of macro cell radio m that the small cell radios to belonging to the set that can be switched off can by represented as 1 and the small cell radios not belonging to the set e.g. that should remain powered on can be represented by 0 for a 0 1 i 1 2 . . . N.

The first term in the optimization problem shown in Equation 28 h a can correspond to the energy consumption of the macro with the added load from the set of small cell radios and the second term aE can correspond to reduction in the total energy when the relevant small cell radios are switched off. It should be noted that in some cases the load dependent energy consumption h for macro cell radio m can be a non convex function which can potentially make solving optimization very difficult. Thus in some embodiments an approximation can be made such that h can be assumed to be a monotonically increasing function which can simplify solving optimization problem shown in Equation 28.

In various embodiments since the optimization problem shown in Equation 28 consists of only a single constraint one solution to the optimization problem can be obtained in linear time O N using an example procedural framework as shown in TABLE 1. For the example procedural framework shown in TABLE 1 i can correspond to the index of a given small cell radio having the i th largest total energy consumption e.g. E E . . . E . . . E and T may represent a temporary variable used in the procedural framework.

For the procedural framework illustrated in TABLE 1 STEP 1 can include initializing the small cell radio index i 1 initializing the set S of small cell radios that results in the highest energy savings for the RAN e.g. an empty set at the beginning of the procedure and initializing the temporary variable T 0. STEP 2 can include setting T to be T for small cell radio i and at STEP 2.1 the procedure can include checking whether there is available load for the macro cell radio to receive UE from small cell radio i as shown by the relationship a T . In various embodiments small cell radio i can correspond to the small cell radio ranked in a manner as noted above in which i 1 can correspond to the small cell radio having the largest total energy consumption for the RAN.

At STEP 2.1.1 if a is true e.g. there is load headroom for the macro to receive handover of the UE from small cell radio i the procedure can check whether the handover of the UE connected to small cell radio i to the macro cell would result in an energy savings in the RAN e.g. whether the increase in energy consumption by the macro cell radio m is less than the energy consumption of small cell radio i as shown by the constraint b h h 

At STEP 3 the index i can be incremented and at STEP 3.1 the procedure can check whether the index i is greater than the number of small cell radios within the coverage area of the macro cell radio as shown by constraint c i N. At STEP 3.1.1 if c is true the procedure can return to STEP 2 to repeat the a and b checks for the next small cell radio i 1. At STEP 3.1.2 if c is false the procedure can return the set of small cell radios belonging to the set S and the procedure can end. Following completion of the procedure UE handovers can be initiated for the UE connected to the small cell radios belonging to the set S and once the UE have been handed over to the macro cell radio m the small cell radios can be powered off.

Accordingly in various embodiments communication system can provide a method to determine a maximum energy savings for a RAN by solving an optimization problem characterizing energy savings or energy consumption based on one or more potential UE handovers subject to certain load constraints.

Turning to is a simplified flow diagram illustrating example operations associated determining a maximum energy savings for a RAN e.g. RAN or in accordance with one potential embodiment of communication system . In various embodiments operations can assume that a given statistical model for predicting loads or load changes for one or more potential UE handovers has been sufficiently trained and or re trained as discussed for the various embodiments described herein and that a determination has been made that a prediction for a load change is needed.

At the operations can include calculating predicted load changes for a target radio access point for one or more potential UE handover s from a plurality of source radio access point for a radio access network based at least in part on application of the current measurement data to a trained statistical model representing load changes for the radio access network. In some embodiments the trained statistical model can be a multiple regression model associated with one or more load function e.g. model that relates measurement data collected for the radio access network to load changes for UE handovers within the radio access network. In various embodiments each of the source radio access points may provide a corresponding coverage area that is contained within a corresponding coverage area of the target radio access point.

At the operations can include ranking each of the predicted load changes for the one or more potential UE handovers calculated for each of the plurality of source radio access points in a predetermined order. In some embodiments the predetermined order can be an ascending order representing a range of predicted load changes for the target radio access point that ranges from a smallest contribution of predicted load change for the target radio access point for one or more potential UE handovers from a particular source radio access point to a largest contribution of predicted load change for the target radio access point for one or more potential UE handovers from another particular source radio access point. In some embodiments the ranking at can include ranking energy consumption for the source radio access points for the predicted load changes in a descending order ranging from the source radio access point having the largest contribution to energy consumption for the RAN to the source radio access point having the smallest contribution to energy consumption for the RAN.

At the operations can include solving an optimization problem associated with energy savings for the radio access network in order to determine a set of one or more source radio access points that can be powered off to maximize energy savings or minimize energy consumption for the radio access network. In various embodiments the optimization problem can be constrained based on a maximum allowable load that the target radio access point can support. In various embodiments operations and can be performed via data analytics engine and or one or more nodes of central management system via various exchanges which can include at least in part exchanges of measurement data collected by the one or more nodes of central management system .

Upon determining the set of one or more source radio access points that can be powered off the operations can include initiating handover to the target radio access point for UE connected to the source radio access points belonging to the set at . In various embodiments handover can be initiated via one or more command messages that may be generated via one or more nodes of central management system e.g. any of RRM system SON management system small cell management system and or WLC .

At the operations can include powering off one or more source radio access points belong to the set and the operations may end. In various embodiments the powering off can be initiated via one or more command messages that may be generated via one or more nodes of central management system . It should be understood that in various embodiments as discussed herein that operations can be repeated at various times time periods etc. in order to update the energy savings loading etc. for the radio access network in order to optimize efficient use of resources within communication system .

Turning to are simplified block diagrams illustrating example details of various elements that can be associated with communication system in accordance with one or more embodiments. is a simplified block diagram illustrating example details that can be associated with data analytics engine in accordance with one embodiment of communication system . is a simplified block diagram illustrating example details that can be associated with radio resource management RRM system in accordance with one embodiment of communication system . is a simplified block diagram illustrating example details that can be associated with Self Organizing Network SON management system in accordance with one embodiment of communication system . is a simplified block diagram illustrating example details that can be associated with small cell management system in accordance with one embodiment of communication system . is a simplified block diagram illustrating example details that can be associated with wireless LAN controller in accordance with one embodiment of communication system .

Referring to data analytic engine can include a network behavior prediction module an interface module a data analytic engine storage at least one processor and at least one memory element . In at least one embodiment at least one processor is at least one hardware processor configured to execute various tasks operations and or functions of data analytic engine as described herein and at least one memory element is configured to store data and or information associated with data analytic engine . In various embodiments network behavior prediction module can be configured to implement various network behavior prediction operations as described herein including but not limited to training or re training e.g. updating a statistical model that relates one or more network behaviors e.g. loads load changes congestion etc. based on one or more input parameters e.g. measurement data gathered from a radio access network e.g. RAN RAN etc. formulating network behavior definitions models functions etc. that can be used across one or more statistical models solving various optimization problems based on the predicted network behaviors e.g. apply the predicted behaviors to one or more other operations in order to control and or manage resources for communication system ranking predicted behavior results and or other operations as described herein.

In various embodiments interface module can be configured to implement one or more operations associated with interfacing with one or more nodes systems etc. of communication system in order to exchange data and or information which may be used to facilitate one or more data analysis operations e.g. network behavior prediction operations of data analytic engine and or may be used to communicate the results of one or more data analysis operations to central management system e.g. any of RRM system SON management system small cell management system and or WLC etc. . In various embodiments the interfacing may be performed via one or more communication protocols application programming interface API procedure calls handshaking operations combinations thereof or the like to exchange data and or information as discussed herein.

In various embodiments data analytic engine storage can be configured to store information associated with various operations as described herein including but not limited to storing one or more predicted behavior results e.g. loads or load changes for one or more potential UE handovers among one or more radio access points storing ranked orders of predicted behavior results storing sets of radio access points that can be powered off storing measurement data combinations thereof or storing any other data or information associated with various operations as described herein.

Referring to RRM system can include a data collection module an interface module a RRM system storage a RAN management module at least one processor and at least one memory element . In at least one embodiment at least one processor is at least one hardware processor configured to execute various tasks operations and or functions of RRM system as described herein and at least one memory element is configured to store data and or information associated with RRM system . In some embodiments small cell management system can be included within RRM system .

In various embodiments data collection module can be configured to implement various data collection operations as described herein including but not limited to collecting measurement data from a given RAN e.g. RAN RAN before and after one or more UE handovers within the RAN collecting user data associated with one or more UE in the RAN from service provider network e.g. via one or more subscriber data repositories such as for example Authentication Authorization and Accounting AAA elements a Home Subscriber Server Home Location Register HSS HLR etc. as prescribed by 3GPP standards and or other operations as described herein. In various embodiments user data can include QoS information bit rate information etc. for one or more user services provided to UE within the RAN.

In various embodiments interface module can be configured to implement one or more operations associated with interfacing with one or more nodes systems etc. of communication system in order to exchange data and or information which may be used to facilitate one or more data analysis operations e.g. network behavior prediction operations of data analytic engine may be used to communicate the results of one or more data analysis operations to RRM system may be used to collect data measurements from one or more radio access points of a given RAN may be used to exchange communications with service provider network and or may be used to communicate one or more management and or control commands to one or more radio access points of the RAN. In various embodiments the interfacing may be performed via one or more communication protocols application programming interface API procedure calls handshaking operations combinations thereof or the like to exchange data and or information as discussed herein.

In various embodiments RRM system storage can be configured to store information associated with various operations as described herein including but not limited to storing one or more predicted behavior results e.g. loads or load changes for one or more potential UE handovers among one or more radio access points storing ranked orders of predicted behavior results storing sets of radio access points that can be powered off storing measurement data combinations thereof or storing any other data or information associated with various operations as described herein.

In various embodiments RAN management module can be configured to implement one or more operations as discussed herein for controlling and or managing operation of a given RAN e.g. RAN RAN etc. including but not limited to initiating one or more UE handovers within the RAN powering off one or more radio access points within the RAN managing UE admission control combinations thereof or the like.

Referring to SON management system can include a data collection module an interface module a SON storage a Heterogeneous Network HetNet management module at least one processor and at least one memory element . In at least one embodiment at least one processor is at least one hardware processor configured to execute various tasks operations and or functions of SON management system as described herein and at least one memory element is configured to store data and or information associated with SON management system . In various embodiments data collection module can be configured to implement various data collection operations as described herein including but not limited to collecting measurement data from a given RAN e.g. RAN RAN before and after one or more UE handovers within the RAN collecting user data associated with one or more UE in the RAN from service provider network e.g. via one or more subscriber data repositories such as for example AAA elements a HSS HLR etc. as prescribed by 3GPP standards and or other operations as described herein.

In various embodiments interface module can be configured to implement one or more operations associated with interfacing with one or more nodes systems etc. of communication system in order to exchange data and or information which may be used to facilitate one or more data analysis operations e.g. network behavior prediction operations of data analytic engine may be used to communicate the results of one or more data analysis operations to SON management system may be used to collect data measurements from one or more radio access points of a given RAN may be used to exchange communications with service provider network and or may be used to communicate one or more management and or control commands to one or more radio access points of the RAN. In various embodiments the interfacing may be performed via one or more communication protocols application programming interface API procedure calls handshaking operations combinations thereof or the like to exchange data and or information as discussed herein.

In various embodiments SON storage can be configured to store information associated with various operations as described herein including but not limited to storing one or more predicted behavior results e.g. loads or load changes for one or more potential UE handovers among one or more radio access points storing ranked orders of predicted behavior results storing sets of radio access points that can be powered off storing measurement data combinations thereof or storing any other data or information associated with various operations as described herein.

In various embodiments HetNet management module can be configured to implement one or more operations as discussed herein for controlling and or managing operation of a given RAN e.g. RAN RAN etc. including but not limited to initiating one or more UE handovers within the RAN powering off one or more radio access points within the RAN load balancing among radio access points within the RAN managing UE admission control combinations thereof or the like. In various embodiments HetNet management module may be configured to implement operations as discussed herein for controlling and or managing operation among different layers of a given RAN such as for example a macro cell layer of macro cell radios a small cell layer of small cell radios and or a WLAN layer of WLAN radio access points.

Referring to small cell management system can include a data collection module an interface module a small cell management system storage a small cell radio management module at least one processor and at least one memory element . In at least one embodiment at least one processor is at least one hardware processor configured to execute various tasks operations and or functions of small cell management system as described herein and at least one memory element is configured to store data and or information associated with small cell management system . In various embodiments data collection module can be configured to implement various data collection operations as described herein including but not limited to collecting measurement data from a given RAN e.g. RAN RAN before and after one or more UE handovers for one or more small cell radios of the RAN collecting user data associated with one or more UE connected to one or more small cell radios in the RAN from service provider network e.g. via one or more subscriber data repositories such as for example AAA elements a HSS HLR etc. as prescribed by 3GPP standards and or other operations as described herein.

In various embodiments interface module can be configured to implement one or more operations associated with interfacing with one or more nodes systems etc. of communication system in order to exchange data and or information which may be used to facilitate one or more data analysis operations e.g. network behavior prediction operations of data analytic engine may be used to communicate the results of one or more data analysis operations to small cell management system may be used to collect data measurements from one or more small cell radios of a given RAN may be used to exchange communications with service provider network and or may be used to communicate one or more management and or control commands to one or more small cell radios of the RAN. In various embodiments the interfacing may be performed via one or more communication protocols application programming interface API procedure calls handshaking operations combinations thereof or the like to exchange data and or information as discussed herein.

In various embodiments small cell management system storage can be configured to store information associated with various operations as described herein including but not limited to storing one or more predicted behavior results e.g. loads or load changes for one or more potential UE handovers among one or more small cell radios storing ranked orders of predicted behavior results storing sets of small cell radios that can be powered off storing measurement data combinations thereof or storing any other data or information associated with various operations as described herein.

In various embodiments small cell radio management module can be configured to implement one or more operations as discussed herein for controlling and or managing operation of a given RAN e.g. RAN RAN etc. including but not limited to initiating one or more UE handovers within the RAN powering off one or more small cell radios within the RAN load balancing among small cell radios within the RAN managing UE admission control combinations thereof or the like. In various embodiments small cell radio management module may be configured to implement operations for configuring one or more small cell radios according to a given communication protocol and data model.

Referring to wireless LAN controller can include a data collection module an interface module a wireless LAN controller storage a wireless LAN radio management module at least one processor and at least one memory element . In at least one embodiment at least one processor is at least one hardware processor configured to execute various tasks operations and or functions of wireless LAN controller as described herein and at least one memory element is configured to store data and or information associated with wireless LAN controller . In various embodiments data collection module can be configured to implement various data collection operations as described herein including but not limited to collecting measurement data from a given RAN e.g. RAN RAN before and after one or more UE handovers for one or more WLAN radio access points of the RAN collecting user data associated with one or more UE connected to one or more WLAN radio access points in the RAN from service provider network e.g. via one or more subscriber information repositories and or other operations as described herein.

In various embodiments interface module can be configured to implement one or more operations associated with interfacing with one or more nodes systems etc. of communication system in order to exchange data and or information which may be used to facilitate one or more data analysis operations e.g. network behavior prediction operations of data analytic engine may be used to communicate the results of one or more data analysis operations to wireless LAN controller may be used to collect data measurements from one or more WLAN radio access points of a given RAN may be used to exchange communications with service provider network and or may be used to communicate one or more management and or control commands to one or more WLAN radio access points of the RAN. In various embodiments the interfacing may be performed via one or more communication protocols application programming interface API procedure calls handshaking operations combinations thereof or the like to exchange data and or information as discussed herein.

In various embodiments wireless LAN controller storage can be configured to store information associated with various operations as described herein including but not limited to storing one or more predicted behavior results e.g. loads or load changes for one or more potential UE handovers among one or more WLAN radio access points storing ranked orders of predicted behavior results storing sets of WLAN radio access points that can be powered off storing measurement data combinations thereof or storing any other data or information associated with various operations as described herein.

In various embodiments wireless LAN radio management module can be configured to implement one or more operations as discussed herein for controlling and or managing operation of a given RAN e.g. RAN RAN etc. including but not limited to initiating one or more UE handovers within the RAN powering off one or more WLAN radio access points within the RAN load balancing among WLAN radio access points within the RAN managing UE admission control combinations thereof or the like. In various embodiments small cell management system may be configured to implement operations for configuring one or more WLAN radio access points according to a given communication protocol and data model.

In regards to the internal structure associated with communication system each of UE and UE radio access points small cell radios and macro cell radio as shown in may each also include a respective processor a respective memory element a respective storage and one or more transmitters receivers and or antennas to facilitate over the air communications.

Hence appropriate software hardware and or algorithms are being provisioned in UE UE radio access points service provider network data analysis system including data analytic engine central management system including one or more of RRM system SON management system small cell management system and or wireless LAN controller as well as small cell radios and macro cell radio as shown in in order to facilitate network behavior prediction e.g. loads or load changes RAN optimization and or RAN management control operations as described for various embodiments discussed herein. Note that in certain embodiments certain databases can be consolidated with memory elements or vice versa or the storage can overlap exist in any other suitable manner.

In one example implementation UE UE radio access points service provider network data analysis system including data analytic engine central management system including one or more of RRM system SON management system small cell management system and or wireless LAN controller as well as small cell radios and macro cell radio as shown in are network elements which are meant to encompass network appliances servers routers switches gateways bridges loadbalancers firewalls processors modules or any other suitable device component element or object operable to exchange information that facilitates or otherwise helps coordinate network behavior prediction e.g. loads or load changes RAN optimization and or RAN management control activities as discussed herein e.g. for networks such as those illustrated in and . In other embodiments these operations and or features may be provided external to these elements or included in some other network device to achieve this intended functionality. Alternatively one or more of these elements can include software or reciprocating software that can coordinate in order to achieve the operations and or features as outlined herein. In still other embodiments one or more of these devices may include any suitable algorithms hardware software components modules interfaces or objects that facilitate the operations thereof. This may be inclusive of appropriate algorithms and communication protocols that allow for the effective exchange of data and or information.

In various embodiments UE UE radio access points service provider network data analysis system including data analytic engine central management system including one or more of RRM system SON management system small cell management system and or wireless LAN controller as well as small cell radios and macro cell radio as shown in may keep information in any suitable memory element e.g. random access memory RAM read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM application specific integrated circuit ASIC etc. software hardware or in any other suitable component device element or object where appropriate and based on particular needs. Any of the memory items discussed herein should be construed as being encompassed within the broad term memory element . Information being tracked or sent to UE UE radio access points service provider network data analysis system including data analytic engine central management system including one or more of RRM system SON management system small cell management system and or wireless LAN controller as well as small cell radios and macro cell radio as shown in could be provided in any database register control list cache or storage structure all of which can be referenced at any suitable timeframe. Any such storage options may be included within the broad term memory element as used herein. Similarly any of the potential processing elements modules and machines described herein should be construed as being encompassed within the broad term processor . Each of the network elements and or user equipment can also include suitable interfaces for receiving transmitting and or otherwise communicating data and or information in a network environment.

Note that in certain example implementations the network behavior prediction e.g. loads or load changes RAN optimization and or RAN management control functions as outlined herein may be implemented by logic encoded in one or more tangible media which may be inclusive of non transitory media e.g. embedded logic provided in an ASIC in digital signal processing DSP instructions software potentially inclusive of object code and source code to be executed by a processor or other similar machine etc. . In some of these instances memory elements as shown in can store data used for the operations described herein. This includes the memory elements being able to store software logic code or processor instructions that are executed to carry out the activities described herein. A processor e.g. a hardware processor can execute any type of instructions associated with the data to achieve the operations detailed herein. In one example the processors as shown in could transform an element or an article e.g. data information from one state or thing to another state or thing. In another example the activities outlined herein may be implemented with fixed logic or programmable logic e.g. software computer instructions executed by a processor and the elements identified herein could be some type of a programmable processor programmable digital logic e.g. a field programmable gate array FPGA a DSP processor an EPROM an electrically erasable PROM EEPROM or an ASIC that includes digital logic software code electronic instructions or any suitable combination thereof.

Note that in this Specification references to various features e.g. elements structures modules components steps operations characteristics etc. included in one embodiment example embodiment an embodiment another embodiment certain embodiments some embodiments various embodiments other embodiments alternative embodiment and the like are intended to mean that any such features are included in one or more embodiments of the present disclosure but may or may not necessarily be combined in the same embodiments. Note also that a module or engine as referred to herein this Specification can be inclusive of an executable file comprising instructions that can be understood and processed on a computer and may further include library modules or engines loaded during execution object files system files hardware logic software logic or any other executable modules or engines.

It is also important to note that the operations and steps described with reference to the preceding FIGURES illustrate only some of the possible scenarios that may be executed by or within the system. Some of these operations may be deleted or removed where appropriate or these steps may be modified or changed considerably without departing from the scope of the discussed concepts. In addition the timing of these operations may be altered considerably and still achieve the results taught in this disclosure. The preceding operational flows have been offered for purposes of example and discussion. Substantial flexibility is provided by the system in that any suitable arrangements chronologies configurations and timing mechanisms may be provided without departing from the teachings of the discussed concepts.

Note that with the examples provided above as well as numerous other examples provided herein interaction may be described in terms of one two three or four network elements. However this has been done for purposes of clarity and example only. In certain cases it may be easier to describe one or more of the functionalities by only referencing a limited number of network elements. It should be appreciated that communication system and its teachings are readily scalable and can accommodate a large number of components as well as more complicated sophisticated arrangements and configurations. Accordingly the examples provided should not limit the scope or inhibit the broad teachings of communication system as potentially applied to a myriad of other architectures.

Although the present disclosure has been described in detail with reference to particular arrangements and configurations these example configurations and arrangements may be changed significantly without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. For example although the present disclosure has been described with reference to particular communication exchanges involving certain network access and protocols communication system may be applicable to other exchanges or routing protocols. Moreover although communication system has been illustrated with reference to particular elements and operations that facilitate the communication process these elements and operations may be replaced by any suitable architecture or process that achieves the intended functionality of communication system .

Numerous other changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications may be ascertained to one skilled in the art and it is intended that the present disclosure encompass all such changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications as falling within the scope of the appended claims. In order to assist the United States Patent and Trademark Office USPTO and additionally any readers of any patent issued on this application in interpreting the claims appended hereto Applicant wishes to note that the Applicant a does not intend any of the appended claims to invoke paragraph six 6 of 35 U.S.C. section 112 as it exists on the date of the filing hereof unless the words means for or step for are specifically used in the particular claims and b does not intend by any statement in the specification to limit this disclosure in any way that is not otherwise reflected in the appended claims.

