---

title: System for sampling and/or analysis of particles in a gaseous environment
abstract: A system for trapping particles in a gas comprising a chamber; an intake for intake of a gas containing at least one particle to be trapped and released, and an outlet for exit of the gas out of the chamber containing at least one particle; a first passage operatively connected to the intake operating to create a flow of a gas containing at least one particle into the chamber, a second passage operatively connected to the outlet for flow of the gas; a third passage operatively connected to a gaseous flow for creating a flow of fluid in a direction substantially opposite to the transfer of gas from the first passage so as to counteract the flow of gas from the first passage; an image sensor for recording an image; and a laser for generating a light beam for forming a photophoretic trap between the first and third passages.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09448155&OS=09448155&RS=09448155
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09448155
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150616
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 998 366 filed Jun. 25 2014 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government without the payment of royalities. It resulted at least in part from research supported by the U.S. Army Research Laboratory ARL funds and by the Defense Threat Reduction Agency DTRA under contract number HDTRA136477 US Army Research Office grants W911NF 13 1 0429 and W911NF 13 1 0297.

Measurements of single particles trapped in air have been made since the pioneering work on electro quasistatic levitation Fletcher H. A Determination of Avogadro s Constant N from Measurements of the Brownian Movements of Small Oil Drops Suspended In Air Phys. Rev. 4 440 453 1914 and optical levitation Ashkin A. Acceleration and Trapping of Particles by Radiation Pressure Phys. Rev. Lett. 24 156 159 1970 . These techniques have been used to measure single particle Raman spectra. The power of such Raman measurements is clearly recognized. However the one reported attempt to measure single particle Raman spectra of atmospheric aerosols achieved such a low sample rate that the authors wrote that the measurements were tedious. A problem in that approach is that charging of the aerosols was required. Only a fraction of the particles have the needed charge to mass ratio to be captured. Optical trapping using radiation pressure is useful for suspending relatively transparent particles in relatively transparent media but it has not been used to sample and trap successively arriving particles from atmospheric air.

Previous attempts have been made using methods and or systems for particle trapping using photophoretic force. However the previous methods for trapping particles in air are generally capture and trap one single particle from a large group of particles e.g. a few to 1000 s passively a particle is randomly trapped . Furthermore in those methods these particles are initially placed on a substrate or in a container and then forced into the air in a short time to generate very high particle concentrations for trapping. Such passive particle trapping approaches have low efficiency are not suitable for continuously sampling and trapping.

The existing on line analytical systems e.g. single particle fluorescence spectrometer mass spectrometer generally concentrate and focus the aerosol into a localized jet and then the particles flows into an interrogation region carried by the airflow where the particles are analyzed one by one as they rapidly flow through they are not trapped in stationary at any location . The flowing through systems cannot be used for the measurement that has very weak signal such as Raman scattering signal and also cannot be used for observing time revolution process.

The existing optical trapping techniques used to study the physical chemical or biological properties of one or a few representative particles in air generally capture and trap the particles from a large group of particles e.g. a few to 1000 s . The particles to be trapped typically have to be with similar properties and are initially placed on a substrate or in a container and then forced into the air in a short time to generate very high particle concentrations for trapping. Such low efficiency passive particle trapping approaches are not adequate for continuously sampling and trapping for the successively arriving particles with different properties.

The prior art technology includes methods and apparatus where particles are randomly captured and or trapped such as when particles are spread out and randomly captured by entering a trap zone. Such processes are time consuming and require the source of particles to be physically and chemically uniform otherwise the trapped particles may not be representative of typical ones due to the feature of randomization of the methods . This problem hinders instrumentation for continuously sampling and trapping aerosol particles that arrive successively in the trapping system from an air stream that likely have particles in different physical and chemical properties.

The present invention overcomes the above problems as it affords the opportunity to capture and trap particles that have different properties. Particles may be continuously sampled and successively fed into the trapping region held for observation and measured as long as needed. The present invention improves the particle trapping rate from the existed passive capturing methods. The present invention provides the optional capabilities of concentrating particles from air or a gas focusing these aerosol particles into a narrow jet slowing the particles trapping the particle in a region where the particle velocity has become very small retaining the particle for as long as needed and releasing the trapped particle in order to trap the next one. The present invention allows one to continuously sample successively arriving aerosol particles and suspend them for measurements.

The foregoing and other objects features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the following more detailed description of the preferred embodiments of the invention as illustrated in the accompanying drawings wherein 

A more complete appreciation of the invention will be readily obtained by reference to the following Description of the Preferred Embodiments and the accompanying drawings in which like numerals in different figures represent the same structures or elements. The representations in each of the figures are diagrammatic and no attempt is made to indicate actual scales or precise ratios. Proportional relationships are shown as approximates.

The embodiments of the invention and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the non limiting embodiments that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. It should be noted that the features illustrated in the drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale. Descriptions of well known components and processing techniques are omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the embodiments of the invention. The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an understanding of ways in which the embodiments of the invention may be practiced and to further enable those of skill in the art to practice the embodiments of the invention. Accordingly the examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the embodiments of the invention. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. In the drawings the dimensions of objects and regions may be exaggerated for clarity. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to limit the full scope of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

It will be understood that when an element such as an object layer region or substrate is referred to as being on or extending onto another element it can be directly on or extend directly onto the other element or intervening elements may also be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on or extending directly onto another element there are no intervening elements present. It will also be understood that when an element is referred to as being connected or coupled to another element it can be directly connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly connected or directly coupled to another element there are no intervening elements present.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements components regions layers and or sections these elements components regions layers and or sections should not be limited by these terms. For example when referring first and second passages these terms are only used to distinguish one passage element component region layer or section from another passage region layer or section. Thus a first passage element component region layer or section discussed below could be termed a second passage element component region layer or section without departing from the teachings of the present invention.

Furthermore relative terms such as lower or bottom and upper or top may be used herein to describe one element s relationship to other elements as illustrated in the Figures. It will be understood that relative terms are intended to encompass different orientations of the device in addition to the orientation depicted in the Figures. For example if the device in the Figures is turned over elements described as being on the lower side of other elements would then be oriented on upper sides of the other elements. The exemplary term lower can therefore encompass both an orientation of lower and upper depending of the particular orientation of the figure. Similarly if the device in one of the figures is turned over elements described as below or beneath other elements would then be oriented above the other elements. The exemplary terms below or beneath can therefore encompass both an orientation of above and below. Furthermore the term outer may be used to refer to a surface and or layer that is farthest away from a substrate.

Embodiments of the present invention are described herein with reference to cross section illustrations that are schematic illustrations of idealized embodiments of the present invention. As such variations from the shapes of the illustrations as a result for example of manufacturing techniques and or tolerances are to be expected. Thus embodiments of the present invention should not be construed as limited to the particular shapes of regions illustrated herein but are to include deviations in shapes. Thus the regions illustrated in the figures or configurations are schematic in nature and their shapes are not intended to illustrate the precise shape of a region of a device and are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

It will also be appreciated by those of skill in the art that references to a structure or feature that is disposed adjacent another feature may have portions that overlap or underlie the adjacent feature.

A preferred embodiment design able to focus concentrate and also make these particles move slowly to be trapped in air from successive arriving airborne aerosol particles that are continuously sampled from air. The invention provides feeding methods for trapping particles in air and is very useful in various on line analytical applications in which long time monitoring or analyzing from a series of successive arriving particles e.g. different kind of individual particles from atmosphere pharmaceutical or other production facilities is required as the invention permits each particle to be trapped for a short time e.g. a few seconds for observation or measurement. The present invention provides a new method for continuous sampling trapping holding and releasing aerosol particles in air in an effective way that the entire process is actively controlled. A preferred embodiment comprises inter alia two components 1 a laser and optics formed hollow cone surrounded by a conical high intensity light surface that can trap absorbing particles carried into the cone by an air or gaseous stream. 2 two passages which may be in the form of two co axial nozzles operated in a counter flow mode so that i particles are aerodynamically focused and concentrated into a small diameter jet and ii particles are slowed such that velocity of the particles approaches zero near the vertex of a hollow optical cone so that particles move slowly enough to be trapped by photophoretic forces that are able to balance the small drag and gravitational forces.

A preferred embodiment of the present invention may be utilized as an online instrument for detecting and characterizing aerosols particularly as a real time device for detecting aerosolized biological chemical threats using more informative optical signatures such as Raman spectra with a significant reduction of false positive alarm rate. The present invention provides the capability of on site instrument for air quality characterization and monitoring such as in a battlefield situation. The present invention further provides for long time monitoring or analyzing from a series of successively arriving particles e.g. different kind of individual particles from atmosphere pharmaceutical or other production facilities by trapping the particles for a short time e.g. 1 to a few seconds for observation or measurement.

Potential commercial uses include 1 On line aerosol characterization instrumentation 2 On line material characterization 3 Pharmaceutical usage for drug testing and delivery 4 Single aerosol particle spectroscopic sampler.

A preferred embodiment system of the present invention comprises an integrated opto aerodynamic system that can repeatedly sample trap and release airborne micron size aerosol particles. The particles may be concentrated from as gas such as air for example which transports them into a narrow jet. The jet is then slowed along with particles in it in order to trap one or more absorbing or weakly absorbing particles in a region where the jet velocity has become very small The particle may then be held for as long as needed and released in order to trap the next one. The system can utilize in conjunction with an on line analytical system that provides for continuous sampling of successively arriving aerosol particles and holding the particles for measurements and time related phenomena.

Referring back to the beam splitter the other beam is reflected by optional mirrors A B onto a cylindric lens to form a laser sheet to cover the cone as a high intensity light wall on the open side of the hollow cone. It can hold the captured particle and also prevents other absorbing particles from entering the trapping region by photophoretic forces.

Parts in the integrated opto aerodynamic embodiment illustrated in include the counter flow co axial double nozzle the optical chamber the reflecting elliptical mirror and the focusing spherical mirror .

In one of the methods for generating aerosol is also shown. One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that in the case where the particles are in the air generating aerosol particles would be unnecessary. When used in an experimental environment the aerosol generator comprises a container containing the particles to be analyzed. Air is inputted through a hose or tubing and outputted through a hose or tubing . A magnetic stirrer operating in conjunction with a magnetic bar stirs the particles powder at a sufficient rate to generate the aerosol particles . Aerosol particles pass through outlet tubing or hose into a pipette like structure have a side inlet through which the aerosol enters and a top opening though which the clean air enters. The particles pass downwards through a narrow region or nozzle or inlet of the cylinder or pipette . A second chamber having a narrowed outlet portion or nozzle surrounds the nozzle or inlet portion . Aerosol particles pass through the narrow inlet passage or nozzle to the trapping region as explained above and shown in . Specifically the two co axial nozzles inlet and outlet passages respectively are operated in a counter flow mode so that particles are aerodynamically focused and concentrated into a small diameter jet and the particles are slowed by a counter flow of air from nozzle which slows the jet in which they are entrained until their vertical velocity approaches zero near the vertex of the hollow optical cone so that particles move slowly enough to be trapped by photophoretic forces that are able to balance the small drag and gravitational forces. The particles can return via the outer coaxial nozzle into the second chamber to be exhausted via the outlet if they are not trapped or released after trapping. At the same time clean air is provided though a third nozzle so as to provide a small portion of the counter flow referenced above.

Utilizing the preferred embodiment of aerosol particles are continuously sampled into the inner nozzle then aerodynamically focused and concentrated into a small diameter jet within 300 m diameter by the carrying airflow. After exiting the first passage or inner nozzle the airflow is pulling in a reverse direction in the outer passage of coaxial nozzle while the air speed decreases the particles are also slowed by the drag forces resulting from the particle s inertia tending to remain constant i.e. to keep the particle velocity greater than that of the airflow. Eventually the downward component of the air velocity and the particle velocity decreases to zero and changes and turn 180 . The particles and the air then move laterally out of the jet and into the counter flowing air stream which is drawn back up into the outer passage or nozzle and they exit through the outer nozzle. The trapping region is set a little above the center of zero velocity point. This design reduces the downward Stokes drag force on the particle in the region where the particle is trapped so that a photophoretic force is strong enough to stop the particles and trap them. The small drag from the downward airflow along the central line the gravitational force and optical mostly photophoretic forces push the particle to the point where it is trapped. Particles that touch the high intensity light surface of the confining cone will be pushed toward the axis of the aerosol jet by the photophoretic forces and pushed towards the focal point by optical pressure forces which for absorbing particles are typically small compared to the photophoretic forces pulled down toward the vertex of the cone with gravity. The combination of the designs optical trapping cone and counter flow coaxial double nozzle makes it possible to readily capture and trap particles continuously drawn into the chamber.

The preferred embodiment system of can repeatedly capture a particle from a jet of micron size aerosol particles that are continuously drawn into the chamber and then trap the particle for measurement or observation and release it by blocking and unblocking the trapping laser beam . In a test experiment the trapping laser power is 50 mW. The particles shown are aggregates approximately 20 m average diameter with large variance of multi walled carbon nanotubes MWCNTs which have an outside diameter less than 7 nm an inside diameter approximately 2 5 nm and a length approximately 10 30 m. During a one minute time period more than 10 particles have been captured trapped and released. A new particle can be captured and trapped from a jet within one second once the laser is unblocked. The trapping rate could be increased by reducing the time that the particle is in trap and the time the laser is blocked. The preferred embodiment of can repeatedly sample trap and release light absorbing airborne micron sized aerosol particles that are continuously drawn into a chamber. This technology has the potential to be developed into a new analytical instrument for on line observation or measurement.

As shown in subassembly includes filters flow meters pumps and valves not necessarily arranged in the order shown in . The preferred methodology of is as follow 

To achieve sampling particles from air at a reasonable rates e.g. approximately 1 liter second while retaining the ability to capture and study the particles the following techniques are applied.

Particles are detected by measuring the elastic scattering as the particles approach the trapping region so that the trapping laser beam is gated on or unblocked at the correct time to trap the particle. Particularly beam sheet turn on to prevent other particles into the trapping volume and further solid the trap when a particles is trapped. Once the measurement is finished the trapping beam is unblocked to let the particle be carried away in the airstream. Once the trapping beam is on the high intensity light surface of the cone and the sheet will prevent any other particles entering the trapping region i.e. inside the cone region . The beam can keep on all the time and only off for release the trapped particle when a measurement or observation is finished for it.

Because most biological and chemical particles absorb light strongly in the 220 to 245 nm range and fluoresce at wavelengths longer than 280 nm a short wavelength laser 220 to 245 nm range is used for both trapping particles and exciting Raman. The Raman signals generated will be increased as wavelength and enhanced by the near resonance excitation. Also the Raman spectra will be separated from the fluorescence which can otherwise interfere. If an illumination laser wavelength in the non absorbing region is needed for other studies a beam from a laser with different emission wavelength can be introduced. If desired it can be tightly focused to the position of the trapped particle. If so the radiation pressure force generated by this second laser could add an additional trapping force to push the particle towards the position of highest laser intensity but might also push other particles to the trapping region.

 3 Utilization of Virtual Impaction to Increase the Sampling Rate by Concentrating the Particles while Also Slowing the Particles to Maintain the Trapping Efficiency.

Sampling aerosol at 1 L min through a 1 mm diameter nozzle causes the particles to move at approximately 10 m sec. To concentrate particles a nozzle is used but most of the airflow is drawn in a direction perpendicular to the aerosol stream while drawing a minority flow containing the concentrated particles on a straight path as they leave the nozzle. Then the velocity of the minority flow will be reduced to 1 m sec or less. The reduced particle momenta will be low enough for the photophoretic forces to trap the particles.

In accordance with the principles of the present invention an improved on line instrument is developed for detecting and characterizing aerosols particularly a real time device for detecting aerosolized biological chemical threats using more informative optical signatures such as Raman spectra with big reduction of false positive alarm rate. The present invention significantly changes the current feeding methods for trapping particles in air and is useful in various on line analytical applications in which long time monitoring or analyzing from a series of successive arriving particles e.g. different kind of individual particles from atmosphere pharmaceutical or other production facilities is required but each of them needs to be trapped for a short time e.g. a few seconds observation or measurement.

The preferred embodiments of may be utilized as a transportable system for studying bioaerosols including aerosolized bioagents and the effects of the atmosphere and sunlight on these and for rapidly detecting and characterizing aerosolized chem and bio agents. It is also desirable to use Raman characterization technology to study the effects of the atmospheric environment sunlight humidity gasses such as ozone on bioaerosols. The Raman scattering intensity Imay be computed as 

A hollow beam operates to trap absorbing or weakly absorbing particles using photophoretic forces and a tightly focused beam green to trap non absorbing particles with radiation pressure forces. The preferred embodiment system optionally measures Raman spectra of individual particles sampled from air background or generated by the experimental set up and operates continuously in a sample trap measure release mode. Since single particle Raman signals are weak the particles must be trapped i.e. there is a need to draw and focus particles into the trap at sufficient sampling rates while moving the particles slowly enough to reduce the drag force so they can be trapped. Electric field related traps require charging particles which makes the setup complicated.

As generally known Raman spectroscopy is a spectroscopic technique used to observe vibrational rotational and or other low frequency modes in a system relying on inelastic scattering or Raman scattering of monochromatic light usually from a laser in the visible near infrared or near ultraviolet range. The laser light interacts with molecular vibrations phonons or other excitations in the system resulting in the energy of the laser photons being shifted up or down. The shift in energy gives information about the vibrational modes in the system. Typically a sample is illuminated with a laser beam. Light from the illuminated spot is collected with a lens and sent through a monochromator. Wavelengths close to the laser line due to elastic Rayleigh scattering are filtered out while the rest of the collected light is dispersed onto a detector.

The present invention can aerodynamically focus concentrate and also slow the particles down using such a counter flow coaxial double nozzle design. The present invention can feed aerosol particles to the very localized trapping region at an extremely low speed. The hollow cone surrounded by a conical high intensity light surface provides a trap for absorbing or weakly absorbing particles while affording the capability of repeatedly trapping different successively arriving particles. The present invention offers the measurement of size and other properties of absorbing or weakly absorbing particles that do not need to be uniform. The present invention provides a device design that allows adequate optical windows for optical observation and measurement. Optionally the chamber may be an air tight chamber for sample manipulations e.g. introduction of other chemical species into the chamber.

The present invention provides a novel integrated opto aerodynamic system and demonstrates that it enables us to trap absorbing airborne micron size particles from air hold them and then release them and to repeat this sequence many times as would be appropriate for continuous sampling of particles from air. The preferred embodiment shown in comprises a conical photophoretic optical trap and a counter flow coaxial double nozzle that focuses concentrates and then slows particles for trapping. This technology should be useful for on line applications that require monitoring by single particle analyses of a series of successively arriving particles e.g. from the atmosphere or pharmaceutical or other production facilities where the total sampling time may last from minutes to days but where each particle must be held for a short time for measurements e.g. Raman scattering . The aerodynamic design for delivering aerosol particles into a trapping region by the co axis counter flow double nozzle which can concentrate and focus aerosol particles and eventually deliver to a small trapping region at very slow speed also can be used for any other trapping methods such as using optical pressure force optical gradient force electric magnetic force acoustic force.

As used herein the terminology pump means a device that raises transfers delivers or compresses fluids or that attenuates gases especially by suction or pressure or both.

As used herein the terminology outlet means passage for escape or exit a vent an opening or passage by which anything is let out.

As used herein the terminology hollow beam means a light beam such as a laser beam that look like a ring in cross section.

Obviously many modifications and variations of the present invention are possible in light of the above teachings. It is therefore to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention many be practiced otherwise than as specifically described.

