---

title: Spherical tractor operating mobile platform
abstract: A spherical tractor operating mobile platform (STOMP) is provided for internally propelling and steering along an external surface. The STOMP includes a spherical shell having interior and exterior surfaces, an internal chassis containing an electrical power supply and a propulsion controller; a tractor drive system and an overhead wheel assembly. The tractor drive system provides propulsion and steering of the shell along the surface. The drive system includes a frame that connects to the chassis from below and contains a motor unit. The frame includes port and starboard sides that support respective wheel sets surrounded by corresponding continuous tracks. These tracks engage the shell's interior surface. Each wheel set includes a drive wheel, an idler wheel and a tension wheel for engaging a corresponding track. The overhead wheel assembly connects to the chassis from above to maintain the chassis and the drive system in compression with the shell. To propel the shell, the propulsion controller commands the motor unit to provide torque to both the port and starboard drive wheels. For steering the shell towards starboard, the motor provides torque to the port drive wheel. For steering the shell towards port, the motor provides torque to the starboard drive wheel.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09481414&OS=09481414&RS=09481414
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09481414
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150831
---
The invention is a Continuation in Part of claims priority to and incorporates by reference in its entirety U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 263 529 filed Apr. 28 2014 assigned Navy Case 103220 subsequently issued as U.S. Pat. No. 9 152 148. That parent application is a Continuation of U.S. Pat. No. 8 768 548 which is a Continuation in Part of and claims priority to U.S. Pat. No. 7 963 350 also incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The invention described was made in the performance of official duties by one or more employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the invention herein may be manufactured used or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The invention relates generally to locomotion of spherical devices. In particular the invention relates to spherical mobile platforms using tractor operation for propulsion and steering.

Propelling and steering a ball from inside constitutes a technical challenge that has motivated attention and led to various innovations. One such effort involved conceptualizing spherical platforms designed for ferrying persons into hostile close quarter areas for reconnaissance e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 7 963 350 called a spherical armored mobile platform SAMP and for remote control infrared sensing e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 8 768 548 called a spherical infrared robotic vehicle SIRV . These solutions involve lower and upper internal carriages equipped with wheels that rotate along an outer shell of the platform to induce vehicle translation along an external surface. Other autonomous robots with spherical shells have been developed including self propelled machines designed for locomotion along horizontal and uneven surfaces.

Also currently deployed robotic reconnaissance vehicles are designed to patrol areas in which hostile response to military presence may be suspected but difficult to identify by location such as sniper attacks from high windows in an urban setting. Such vehicles may be constrained by considerations of speed e.g. external tracks obstacle traversal e.g. wheels and or maneuverability. In addition the use of visual cameras may be of marginal utility for night time or other conditions of low visibility surveillance.

Conventional armored vehicles and autonomous robots yield disadvantages addressed by various exemplary embodiments of the present invention. In particular a spherical tractor operating mobile platform STOMP is provided herein for internally propelling and steering a ball. Exemplary embodiments include a spherical navigatable ordnance resistance tractor SNORT for personnel transport into a militarily hostile environment. A civilian version is referred to as a geodesic recreational sphere GReaSe . Alternative exemplary embodiments provide a self propelled remote control spherical internal tractor excursion robot SITER for local reconnaissance.

Various exemplary embodiments provide a spherical tractor operating mobile platform STOMP to internally propel and steer along an external surface. The STOMP includes a spherical shell an internal chassis and port and starboard tracks operating within the shell as well as an overhead wheel assembly to maintain compression of the tracks against the shell. In various exemplary embodiments drive wheels that engage the tank tracks are driven by a motor and structurally supported by the chassis. The treads of the tracks engage the shell s inner surface and turn in response to the motor. The STOMP includes a steering mechanism that selects which of the port and starboard drive wheels to be rotated for steering the shell.

In one preferred embodiment a spherical navigatable ordnance resistance tractor SNORT is provided for at least one operator to enable protected entry and egress from a militarily hostile environment. The SNORT includes a spherical shell and an armored cockpit as the chassis contained within the shell. The SNORT further includes and port and starboard tank tracks operating within the shell and connecting to the cockpit. The spherical shell has inner and outer surfaces and features a plurality of cavities that extend therethrough. These cavities can be arranged to conform to a geodesic pattern. The cockpit houses a seat for receiving an operator a guidance controller a display console and an electric motor connected to a power supply.

The cavities are disposed within three sided boundaries of a geodesic dome. The SNORT can further include a plurality of optical sensors disposed on the cockpit and a signal integrator to present temporally concatenated visual signals into a mosaic at the display console.

The SNORT includes a door on the cockpit that slides between open and closed positions and a hatch on the sphere that hinges between second open and closed positions. In optional exemplary embodiments e.g. for military reconnaissance the SNORT can also include a projectile firing gun mounted to the cockpit and a trigger control to enable actuation of the gun in response to the projectile exiting the sphere at an instance that coincides with a cavity of the plurality of cavities. In other optional exemplary embodiments the shell and cockpit can be non armored and or composed of tubular construction in a geodesic frame to improve unaided visibility. This civilian intended vehicle can be called a geodesic recreational sphere GReaSe and can be used for off road travel and or roller derby contests among other purposes.

Additionally a self propelled remote control spherical internal tractor excursion robot SITER is provided herein for local reconnaissance. The SITER includes a spherical shell a carriage of chassis within the shell and a tractor drive disposed between the chassis and the shell. For reconnaissance the SITER further includes a remote control transceiver to guide the tractor drive and a set of sensors. An infrared camera represents an exemplary sensor type which can be coupled with a shell composed of silicon which is substantially transparent to infrared radiation. Alternatively the sensors can include chemical detectors and or audio amplifiers for traversing through pipes to identify a leak. As an alternative to remote control the SITER can be equipped with obstacle sensors such as accelerometers and an autonomous navigation system such as for pipe locomotion together with a recording apparatus and inertial guidance system to recall locations identified with diagnostic events.

In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized and logical mechanical and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

In accordance with a presently preferred embodiment of the present invention the components process steps and or data structures may be implemented using various types of operating systems computing platforms computer programs and or general purpose machines. In addition those of ordinary skill in the art will readily recognize that devices of a less general purpose nature such as hardwired devices or the like may also be used without departing from the scope and spirit of the inventive concepts disclosed herewith. General purpose machines include devices that execute instruction code. A hardwired device may constitute an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA digital signal processor DSP or other related component.

Various exemplary embodiments of the spherical tractor operating mobile platform STOMP are described with reference to the drawings. The first particular set of embodiments is the spherical navigatable ordnance resistance tractor SNORT which provides concentric shells the inner to provide protective armor for an occupant and the outer to enable self propelled locomotion along a terrain. The SNORT provides room for a single occupant as driver navigator and weapons operator from inside the inner shell or cockpit. A modified cockpit would provide room for a second occupant sitting abreast similar to that shown in U.S. Pat. No. 7 963 350 mistakenly described as tandem arrangement .

The SNORT includes an outer spherical shell or roller ball that includes through cavities and an inner shell or cockpit that provides armor protection. The roller ball forms a hollow sphere. The cockpit forms a hollow oblate spheroid. Between the shells are upper and lower wheel chasses. The cockpit has an aft hatch that slides forward. The roller ball has at least two hatches that open outward. The cockpit includes a reclined seat an instrument display and a control unit. The SNORT can incorporate firing weapons such as the M2 Browning Machine Gun BMG that fires .50 caliber rounds and the M240 or earlier M60 machine gun that fires 7.62 51 mm NATO cartridges.

In the starboard view shows a SNORT containing a cockpit that defines an interior . A reclined seat or couch is disposed within the cockpit interior along the longitudinal direction parallel to the axial centerline . The couch includes a back brace a seat and a leg rest with which to support an operator . The interior further includes a display console that provides an instrument monitor in a guidance unit with a joystick oxygen supply breathing tanks and an electrical package that contains batteries and power controller. The joystick intended for steering can be optionally replaced with a yoke handle foot pedals or alternate control input devices. The cockpit also provides attachment mounts for a locomotion system further described below.

The console provides storage space is disposed forward of the operator and provides storage volume for electronics. The instrument monitor can provide visual information for navigation and weapons targeting as well as indicators for hatch orientation battery status vehicle speed navigational position motor torque etc. The console provides the control system from which the operator provides instructions through the joystick for travel and weapons discharge. The breathing tanks e.g. scuba support an optional breathing apparatus for the operator for circumstances in which the interior is sealed from outside to protect against chemical biological warfare CBW agents. Alternatively ventilation ports can be incorporated through the cockpit .

The electrical package can include a direct current DC power supply such as a battery and a controller to provide proper voltage to various internal systems of the SNORT . Electrical storage can be obtained for example from linked 2200 series Nickel Cadmium NiCad cells provided by SR Batteries Inc. at Box 287 Bellport N.Y. 11713. Each cell has a 0.9 inch 23 mm diameter and 1.69 inch 43 mm length weighing 2.1 oz 60 g producing 1.25 volts at 2.2 amp hours and with 5 impedance. These NiCad cells can be concatenated in series as provided in U.S. Pat. No. 7 767 335 in assembly units of 350 volts or 700 volts. Power storage may be augmented transferring braking force to an optional flywheel to recharge the battery.

The 350 volt unit has dimensions of 15.3 inches 13.3 inches 8 inches 389 mm 338 mm 203 mm and weighs 65 lb 30 kg composed of eight trays linked in series with each tray containing thirty five cells. This can produce electrical energy of 350 volts 2.2 amp hrs 770 Watt hrs 2.77 megaJoules MJ or 1.03 horsepower hour hp hr . The 700 volt assembly may combine two 350 volt units with the third dimension being doubled. Assuming peak current of 30 amps from each 350 volt unit available power is estimated at 21 kW or 28 hp . Alternate battery configurations can also be contemplated for power supply purposes. For example The Model S from Tesla Motors uses batteries with 75 kWh 270 MJ or 85 kWh 306 MJ energy capacity compared to the Chevrolet Volt at 12 kWh.

The SNORT s center of gravity can be adjusted by translatable trim ballast that controllably slides along at least one interior rail . Alternatively such ballast can be contained within the console . Preferably the trim ballast either travels parallel to the axial centerline or comprises a complimentary and independently controllable pair of masses and slider mechanisms disposed along the port and starboard sides of the cockpit . The trim ballast can be moved and set manually for park positioning or automatically by a drive mechanism to facilitate acceleration of the SNORT . By shifting the trim ballast forward power demand from the electrical package may be reduced enabling the SNORT to move forward and or to clear a modest ground obstacle.

The cockpit is contained by an oblate spheroid that includes an access door equipped with a handle that extends both into the interior and external to the spheroid . As depicted herein the door is disposed towards the aft starboard side and opens by sliding forward along racers . Similarly the trim ballast may traverse along external rails such as along the top of the spheroid either in substitution of or in addition to the interior rails . Artisans of ordinary skill will recognize that alternate arrangements and bilateral geometries that fit into the outer shell may be contemplated without departing from the invention s scope.

Bars extend from beyond continuous travelling positions of the door to support a medium machine gun e.g. M60 that fires 7.62 mm rounds. The gun includes an annular optical view sight for sighting from within the ball. Optical sensors may be disposed along the exterior of the spheroid for viewing external environmental conditions from within the ball. The sensors can be miniature digital video cameras. Such a camera can detect photons with a charge coupled device CCD array for example. shows brackets that mount an M2 BMG with an annular optical view sight .

As presented for the single person mobile platform SNORT the cockpit has approximate exterior dimensions of 84 inches 2.13 m in length 38 inches 0.97 m in width and 56 inches 1.42 m in height as observable from the scale rules . For a thickness of 1 inch 25 mm and composed of stainless steel e.g. 304L with density of 0.29 lb inor 8.03 g cm the cockpit has an empty or tare mass of 2200 lb 1000 kg based on construction volume of 7600 in.

The electrical package may be about 150 lb 70 kg with batteries being about 130 lb 60 kg . The M60 gun is about 42 inches 1.08 m long and weighs about 23 lb or 11 kg . By comparison the M240 gun is about 49 inches or 1.24 m long and weighs about 28 lb or 13 kg. The M2 BMG gun is 65 inches 1.65 m long and weighs 84 lb 38 kg . Artisans of ordinary skill will recognize that alternate weapons can be selected for the mobile platform without departing from the scope of the invention. Additional equipment and auxiliary armor e.g. under the cockpit for mine deflection can also be installed to satisfy specific purposes.

The operator console guidance unit electrical package guns and ammunition and auxiliary equipment can be estimated as 1100 lb 500 kg yielding 3300 lb 1500 kg for the gross cockpit mass. For neutral stability the center of mass of the cockpit can be optimized as along the lateral centerline below the axial centerline and slightly forward of the vertical centerline by disposition of the package ballast ammunition and auxiliary equipment. The trim ballast can provide trim adjustment of the mass center during operation. In alternate embodiments be disposed along the exterior spheroid of the cockpit to operate automatically responding to shifts in moment from recoil of the guns and or . Artisans of ordinary skill will recognize that these dimensions are merely exemplary and that further engineering may yield more optimal specifications. In addition a SNORT designed for two or more operators can entail further design changes over the SAMP example described.

A starboard drive wheel engages and is contained within the starboard treads while a port drive wheel engages and is contained within the port treads . Starboard and port rear idler wheels and are also engage and are contained within their respective starboard and port treads and . Starboard and port tension wheels and are also contained within their respective treads and . Artisans will recognize that additional tension wheels between each side s drive and idler wheels can be contemplated without departing from the scope of the invention. The frame contains starboard and port motors and powered by the electrical package to deliver torque to their respective drive wheels and . The overhead wheel assembly includes starboard and port compression idler wheels and that connect to the universally jointed axle which is mounted to the spheroid . Artisans will recognize that plural sets of compression idler wheels together with an optional overhead bogie housing can be contemplated without departing from the scope of the invention.

As shown in the exemplary drawings the drive wheels and the idler wheels are each about 12 inches 305 mm in diameter. The tension wheels and the compression wheels can be of similar or different size depending on the design configuration. The tracks and each have links with a contact width of about 9 inches 229 mm . As shown each track has a contact arc length of about three feet 915 mm although this is only exemplary for purposes of illustration. Thus total area in contact of both tracks with the inner sphere surface is about 648 square inches 100 cm . Width and or length can be extended to improve and homogenize traction. Each track and supports about 2640 lb 1200 kg distributed over 324 square inches each set of treads and imposes a pressure of about 8.1 lb in psi or 56 kPa on the outer sphere.

As shown in the internal cockpit and the tractor drive are contained within an outer spherical shell that constitutes the roller ball. Frictional contact between the treads and the sphere causes the latter to rotate in the same direction as the former. As shown in the tractor drive and overhead wheel assembly are disposed in compression against the sphere s interior conjunctively both upper and lower perpendicular to the local surface tangent to maintain the cockpit upright without tumbling. The interior surface of the shell can be coated with an anti slip material in conformance with MIL PRF 24667B for aircraft carrier decks in order to facilitate traction with the tractor drive . Rotating the drive wheels and induce rolling of the respective tracks and which frictionally engage the interior surface of the shell . This squirrel cage motion enables the shell to revolve and thereby roll as directed by the drive wheels and .

For the embodiment in the starboard motor delivers torque to the starboard drive wheel and the port motor delivers torque to the port drive wheel . Both motors and are controlled by the operator through the joystick . By commanding power from the electrical package only to the starboard motor the starboard drive wheel rotates to engage the starboard track causing the shell to turn to port. Similarly by commanding power to only the port motor the port drive wheel rotates causing the shell to turn to starboard. Commanding both motors and to rotate both drive wheels and the shell moves forward with the drive wheels and rotating clockwise envisioned from starboard in view . Reversing the motors and enables the shell to move rearward. Torque can be transmitted through bevel gear linkages as is well understood unless the motors and are designed to be in axial alignment with the respective drive wheels and as provided by the Segway scooter.

For the embodiment in the motor provides torque through the differential gearbox which enables selection of either or both drive wheels and to starboard motor . Delivering torque to both wheels and causes the shell to move forward. Delivering torque to the starboard wheel alone causes the shell to turn to port and delivering torque to the port wheel alone causes the shell to turn to starboard. The shown arrangement of drive idler and tension wheels are exemplary only assuming a front wheel drive configuration. Alternatively the order can be inverted so that the motors can provide torque to the rear wheel.

As shown in the outer spherical shell includes at least one hatch pivotably attached thereto by an external pair of hinges . The hatch can be secured by internal latches in the closed position as shown. The shell forms a geometry of boundary lines that need not be visibly denoted to form a triangular actually three side curvilinear geodesic dome configuration based on a truncated isosahedron.

The hatch can be formed based on a pair of hexagonal patterns that joins the hinges and a pentagonal pattern that engages the latches which can be recessed to reduce interference from the tractor drive . Such a configuration provides opportunity for three such hatches distributed around the sphere although alternate configurations can be employed to enable more or fewer such hatches for entry and egress to the cockpit interior through the door . Knobs can be disposed at the intersection of the lines as indicated by positions of the hinges embedded within to improve traction along uneven terrain.

For assembly the shell may be constructed from hemispherical sections welded together subsequent to the cockpit and tractor drive being installed therein. Alternatively the hatch may be replaced with or augmented by latches for connecting and detaching the hemispherical sections. The shell can be estimated as about 44 inches 1.12 m in radius or 88 inches or 7 feet 2.24 m in diameter with an exemplary thickness of about inch 10 mm . The shell has an outer area of about 169 ft 15.7 m . For windows exposing about one third of this area each window corresponds to a circle having a diameter 8.3 inches 210.7 mm . Techniques for visual display by digital image integration and projectile synchronization through the windows as they pass downward while moving forward are provided in U.S. Pat. No. 7 963 350 incorporated herein by reference.

Assuming construction of stainless steel with one third of the area open the sphere has an estimated mass of 1320 lb 600 kg . The chassis for the steering propulsion struts and wheels can be estimated as about 880 lb 400 kg . Mass of the SNORT can thus be estimated as cockpit 3300 lb and spherical shell 1320 lb together with locomotion power and ballast at about three tons. The respective radii of the wheels and the sphere are 6 inches 152 mm and 44 inches 1118 mm . Their corresponding circumferences are 12 38 inches and 88 276 inches. Thus the rotation turning ratio between drive wheels and the sphere is 7.3 1 based on the reciprocal of their respective radii assuming adequate friction to avoid slip . To drive the SNORT at 30 miles per hour that corresponds to 528 inches per second 13.2 m sec the sphere rolls at 115 revolutions per minute rpm . Consequently the drive wheels spin at 115 rpm 7.3 842 rpm. For a 60 hp 240 volt AC motor that operates at 1725 rpm a 2.0 1 reduction gear may be employed to reduce the angular speed.

The mass of the cockpit with tractor drive of about 4000 lb moved along a wheel radius of 6 inches yields 2000 ft lb. Torque T ft lb is calculated for 60 hp 240 volt motors and operating at 1725 rpm by the relation T P c in which is spin rpm P is power in hp and c is constant as T 5252 60 1725 183 ft lb which is about fifty percent greater than that of an automobile on typical road grade inclines. A civilian version of the SNORT can be envisioned as the geodesic recreational sphere GReaSe . The spheroid and shell can be replaced by respective tubular cage constructions for improved unaided visibility while maintaining the tractor drive system and electrical package for locomotion and steering control. The structural arrangement of the shell can incorporate a geodesic geometry for substantially uniform structural load traction surface. Tube surfaces for the shell cage may be roughened or coated with an anti slip material to facilitate traction by the track drive.

Various exemplary embodiments of the spherical internal tractor excursion robot SITER are described with reference to the drawings. The SITER provides a chassis for mounting propulsion power and sensor devices and a spherical shell to enable self propelled locomotion along a terrain. Exemplary embodiments provide plurality of infrared cameras aligned to view several directions represents a preferred embodiment of the SITER together with a remote control receiver.

Alternatively the receiver can be replaced by an autonomous navigation system using a processor that navigates independently of operator guidance such as by collision responding accelerometers to retreat and proceed in an alternate direction in response to an obstacle. An instrument support platform includes a cage structure for securing instruments mounted therein. Artisans of ordinary skill will recognize that the physical size shown is merely exemplary and that other dimensions can be selected for a mission appropriate spherical vehicle without departing from the scope of the claims.

The platform supports a plurality of infrared sensors such as infrared cameras for visual imaging of objects that emit or reflect electromagnetic radiation in the near infrared spectrum wavelengths between 0.9 m and 1.7 m . For various exemplary embodiments a quartet of four such cameras can be arranged in a cruciform to point in and thereby capture images from four separate directions. The cameras include a forward unit an aft unit a starboard unit and a port unit obscured behind the starboard unit . The control unit is shown disposed between the cameras although other design arrangements may be considered as optional configurations for these embodiments.

For such uses the shell would preferably be composed of silicon Si which is substantially transparent in the infrared portion of the electromagnetic spectrum. The cameras can be replaced with an alternative sensor suite depending on intended reconnaissance or investigative purpose such as chemical detectors audio detectors visual detectors etc. For such purposes the robotic shell can be composed of a rigid material for road travel such as carbon phenolic thermoset plastic or ceramic. Alternatively the shell can be composed of a flexible material such as polyvinyl chloride to enable commanded inflation and deflation of the spherical shell.

Each camera unit includes an aperture lens for receiving infrared emissions. The chassis can include apertures aligned with the lenses to permit imaging. Alternatively the chassis can comprise material transparent at near infrared wavelengths such that the chassis forms a substantially integral aperture that encompasses that structure. Artisans of ordinary skill will recognize that the four cameras shown in cruciform pattern are merely exemplary as sensors and not limiting either by quantity arrangement or sensor type. The cage secures the cameras from lateral displacement while offering views unobstructed by the cage s structural elements.

The near infrared NIR thermal infrared imager by Infrared Cameras Incorporated ICI of Beaumont Tex. 77705 represents an exemplary camera for purposes of an infrared imaging sensor in the SITER . The NIR imager incorporates an indium gallium arsenide InGaAs detector with a 320 256 array format at a 30 Hz frame rate in snapshot mode. The NIR imager has a spectral response between 0.9 m and 1.7 m and uses power input of 6 volts DC supplied by a 2.00 mm jack. Each NIR imager has length width and height of 3.7 2.5 2.1 94 mm 63.5 mm 53.3 mm and a mass of 12.4 oz 350 g without the lens.

The NIR imager employs RS232 protocol for communication and uses passive convection cooling. The NIR imager operates with typical power dissipation of 3 W and is resistant to laser blinding. The quartet of cameras mounted in cruciform pattern on the platform provide views substantially perpendicular to each other facing slightly upward e.g. zenith of about 5 to 10 extends about 10 inches 0.25 m . The SITER can be contained within the one foot diameter ball for the exterior shell . Artisans of ordinary skill will recognize that alternative infrared sensors or other imagers can be sub situated for the cameras without departing from the scope of the invention.

Optionally an adjustable trim ballast slides along a longitudinal rail mounted on the platform to shift center of gravity such as when additional momentum may be necessary to traverse an obstacle such as a depression in the road being traveled and or to tilt the platform . The ballast can also serve as a parking brake to balance the SITER in a neutral position during stowage.

A tractor drive system and an overhead compression wheel system separate the chassis from the shell . The tractor drive includes a starboard tread assembly a frame and starboard wheels for drive idler and tension . A starboard motor delivers torque to the drive wheel . The overhead compression assembly includes a starboard compression wheel . The starboard drive wheel rotates in a clockwise direction for forward locomotion. An electrical package shown within the chassis supplies power to the motor . The electrical package can include chemical batteries including commercially available types connected in series.

An exemplary type of battery for the electrical package that could be suitable would be the 2200 series Nickel Cadmium NiCad cells provided by SR Batteries Inc. at Box 287 Bellport N.Y. 11713. Each cell has a 0.9 inch 23 mm diameter and 1.69 inch 43 mm length weighing 2.1 oz 60 g producing 1.25 volts DC at 2.2 amp hours and with 5 impedance. Six such NiCad cells can be arranged as three abreast at one diameter high and two across to produce 7.5 volts DC with voltage regulation to the NIR imager supply requirements .

As mentioned the unit can include either a transceiver for receiving instructions from an operator and transmitting image signals for reconnaissance or else a recorder to store such images for subsequent retrieval. An operator can optionally control the SITER by issuing radio commands to the unit via a remote control input device such as used for model aircraft. Alternatively the unit can be equipped with an internal processor to enable autonomous locomotion and or a global positioning system GPS receiver for navigating to a preselected destination.

The electrical package may include NiCad batteries although other forms of electrical power storage may alternatively be incorporated for the SITER . The chassis can include apertures that provide a portal for the lenses through which to view external infrared images. The apertures can constitute vacant openings or else a transparent cover.

The chassis can be composed of lightweight material with sufficient structural strength to support an estimated twenty pounds mass including cameras and attached tractor drive . Apertures aligned with the cruciform axes can be incorporated to avoid blocking infrared radiation to the camera lenses . Alternatively the chassis can be composed of material substantially transparent in the near infrared spectrum to encompass an integral aperture for the cameras . The shell can be composed of an appropriate material substantially transparent in the near infrared spectrum such as alumina. With an estimated shell mass of about thirteen pounds the one foot diameter SITER for the configuration shown can be estimated to have a total mass of about thirty five or forty pounds 16 18 kg .

Such infrared transparent materials include but are not limited to aluminum oxide AlO including the alpha crystalline state called sapphire magnesium fluoride MgF calcium fluoride CaF barium fluoride BaF and possibly silicon Si . Optionally a coating produced by diamond vapor deposition can be applied to the exterior surface to reduce surface wear on the shell .

In particular alumina aluminum oxide at 5 mm thickness 0.2 inch has transparencies at least sixty percent for wavelengths exceeding 1.3 m and about eight percent for wavelengths around 2.3 m. Alumina has an index of refraction of about n 1.8 and a density of about 250 lb ft 4 g cm . An alumina shell with a thickness of 0.2 inch has a mass of about 13 pounds 5.8 kg .

Although the thickness of the shell material and spherical lens focus distortion may degrade optical quality from ideal imagery field intelligence can sometimes benefit from even marginal reconnaissance resolution in regions of operationally difficult or problematic access. Moreover infrared cameras typically intended to detect small temperature differentiation can be adequate for determining presence of endothermic creatures or other indications of interest even with degraded optical conditions.

The SITER can thereby aid in the collection of visual field intelligence such as within an urban area especially under low visibility conditions with considerable agility. Due to its high relative speed and maneuverability compared to other robotic platforms the SITER can accomplish such local ground level reconnaissance missions preferably without detection but minimally without exposing military personnel to hostile attack. An alternate configuration for pipe diagnostics can replace cameras with chemical detectors and or audio sensors for investigation of pipe leaks. The remote control system can optionally be replaced with an autonomous navigation system based on inertial guidance or GPS signals.

In the tension wheel is replaced by an alternate suspension assembly with a truck box that attaches to the frame and supports an arm that rotatably connects first and second bogie wheels and for example. The truck box can include springs to reduce shock from the shell encountering uneven terrain. The bogie wheels and also include grooves for receiving the chines as the track rolls past. Artisans of ordinary skill will recognize that the number and configuration of bogie wheels and are exemplary and not limiting.

While certain features of the embodiments of the invention have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. The afore described dimensions and mass properties constitute an example to demonstrate a practical utility and are not limiting. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

