---

title: System and method for providing and controlling inductive power charging
abstract: Wireless power transfer between power transmitters and power receivers may be established by a digital ping phase during which the wireless power transmitter applies a power signal and waits for a valid response message from the power receiver. The response message may include an identification code and a checksum byte used by the power transmitter to validate the identification code. When a valid response is received, the power transmitter transitions to a power transfer phase.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09548625&OS=09548625&RS=09548625
owner: POWERMAT TECHNOLOGIES LTD.
number: 09548625
owner_city: Neve Ilan
owner_country: IL
publication_date: 20150617
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 273 280 filed May 8 2014 which is a continuation of PCT IL2013 050028 filed Jan. 8 2013 which in turn claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application 61 584 268 filed Jan. 8 2012 U.S. Provisional Patent Application 61 682 604 filed Aug. 13 2012 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application 61 726 855 filed Nov. 15 2012 the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated in their entirety by reference herein.

The disclosure herein relates to systems and methods for providing access to charging power. In particular the disclosure relates to providing and controlling charging power to mobile electrical devices.

The proliferation of mobile devices such as mobile handsets media players tablet computers and laptops notebooks netbooks and ultra books increases user demand for access to power points at which they may power or charge mobile devices while out and about or on the move.

There is a need for systems that conveniently provide the opportunity to power or charge the mobile devices in public spaces in which the user of the mobile spaces may remain for extended periods of time say more than a few minutes or so. Amongst others such public settings may include restaurants coffee shops airport lounges trains buses taxis sports stadia auditoria theatres cinemas or the like. Further there is a need for such systems to enable tracking of individual mobile devices in order to provide a platform for monitoring system usage and arranging payment for the charging powering service.

It is according to one aspect of the current disclosure to present an inductive charging system to provide power to mobile electrical devices and controlling the inductive power charging. The mobile device may be operable to execute a provisioning software for paid charging enabling to monitor and control power charging. The charging system may further allow a power provider to manage the power provision.

The inductive charging system may be operable to provide power to at least one electrical device characterized by a device credential. The inductive charging system may comprise at least one power access point PAP comprising a primary inductor connectable to a power supply the primary inductor operable to inductively couple with a secondary inductor associated with the electrical device a PAP credential characterizing the PAP and a charger link comprising at least a first wireless communication component operable to communicate with at least a second wireless communication component associated with the electrical device via a device link and a power controller comprising a communicator comprising at least one wireless communication component and a server having a database.

Some charging systems may comprise at least one power access point PAP comprises a primary inductor connectable to a power supply a PAP credential characterizing the PAP and a charger link that comprises at least one wireless communication component and at least one device comprises a secondary inductor a device credential characterizing the device and a device link that comprises at least one wireless communication component. The charging system also comprising a power controller comprises a communicator that comprises at least one wireless communication component and a server having a database.

Optionally the inductive charging system in which the charger link or the device link comprises at least one wireless communication component each may be selected from a group consisting of a wireless local area network WLAN transceiver a mobile data network transceiver a near field communication NFC tag an NFC reader an RFID tag and RFID reader an optical signal transmitter an optical detector a sound generator and a sound receiver.

Optionally the inductive charging system in which the communicator comprises at least one wireless communication component may be selected from a group consisting of a WLAN transceiver and a mobile data network transceiver.

Optionally the WLAN transceiver as a wireless communication component may be selected from a group consisting of a WiFi transceiver a Zigbee transceiver a Z wave transceiver and a 6LowPAN transceiver.

Optionally a mobile network transceiver may be selected from a group consisting of a 2G transceiver a 3G transceiver and a 4G transceiver.

Optionally the charging system database comprises of a plurality of device credentials each device credential characterizing one of a plurality of devices a plurality of PAP credentials each PAP credential characterizing one of a plurality of PAPs at least one device ancillary status associated with each of the plurality of device credentials and at least one PAP ancillary status associated with each of the plurality of PAP credentials and additionally the server is capable of determining a charging allocation based on a pairing of one of the plurality of device credentials with one of the plurality of PAP credentials.

Optionally the connection of the primary inductor to the power supply of the charging system may be controlled by a power relay selectable to be in an OFF state or and ON state where the state of the power relay is determined by the charging allocation determined by the server.

Optionally the state of the power relay of the charging system is determined by the charging allocation less the metering data reflecting the amount of charging dispensed by the PAP. The charging allocation may be characterized as a first duration of time and alternatively may be characterized as a first amount of electrical energy. The metering data may be characterized as a second duration of time and alternatively may be characterized as a second amount of electrical energy.

In various embodiments of the disclosure controlling of the inductive charging system as described herein may possibly be performed by different methods running on a data processor such as a computing platform or distributed computing system for executing a plurality of instructions.

The method of controlling the inductive charging comprising the steps of providing a PAP credential characterizing the PAP providing a device credential characterizing the device the charger link transmitting the PAP credential to the device link the device link transmitting the PAP credential and the device credential to the communicator and the server receiving the PAP credential and the device credential from the communicator and determining a charging allocation.

The communicator may transmit an initiation signal to the power relay such that the power relay connects the primary inductor from the power supply if the charging allocation is greater than null. Additionally the power meter may wirelessly transmit to the communicator a metering data reflecting the amount of charging dispensed by the PAP and the server may compare the charging allocation to the metering data such that the communicator transmits a termination signal to the power relay such that the power relay disconnects the primary inductor from the power supply if the metering data exceeds the charging allocation.

Additionally or alternatively controlling the inductive charging is performed by another method comprising the steps of a user entering a PAP credential into the device through the PAP credential input providing a device credential characterizing the device the device link transmitting the PAP credential and the device credential to the communicator the server receiving the PAP credential and the device credential from the communicator and determining a charging allocation.

The communicator may transmit an initiation signal to the power relay such that the power relay connects the primary inductor from the power supply if the charging allocation is greater than null. Additionally the method may further comprise the steps of a power meter wirelessly transmitting to the communicator a metering data reflecting the amount of charging dispensed by the PAP and the server comparing the charging allocation to the metering data such that the communicator transmits a termination signal to the power relay such that the power relay disconnects the primary inductor from the power supply if the metering data exceeds the charging allocation.

Additionally or alternatively controlling the inductive charging may be performed by yet another method comprising the steps of providing a PAP credential characterizing the PAP providing a device credential characterizing the device the device link transmitting the PAP credential to the charger link the charger link transmitting the PAP credential and the device credential to the communicator the server receiving the PAP credential and the device credential from the communicator and determining a charging allocation.

The communicator may transmit an initiation signal to the power relay such that the power relay connects the primary inductor from the power supply if the charging allocation is greater than null. Additionally the method further comprising the steps of a power meter wirelessly transmitting to the communicator a metering data reflecting the amount of charging dispensed by the PAP and the server comparing the charging allocation to the metering data such that the communicator transmits a termination signal to the power relay such that the power relay disconnects the primary inductor from the power supply if the metering data exceeds the charging allocation.

Additionally or alternatively controlling the inductive charging may be performed by yet another method comprising the steps of providing a PAP credential characterizing the PAP providing a device credential characterizing said device the charger link transmitting the PAP credential to the device link the device link transmitting the PAP credential and the device credential to the communicator the server receiving the PAP credential and the device credential from the communicator and determining a charging allocation.

The communicator may transmit an initiation signal to the device link the device link then transmits the initiation signal to the charger link. The power relay being wired to the charger link and receiving the initiation signal from the charger link such that the power relay connects the primary inductor from the power supply if the charging allocation is greater than null. Additionally the method further comprises the steps of a power meter providing to the charger link a metering data reflecting the amount of charging dispensed by the PAP the charger link transmitting the metering data to the device link the device link transmitting the metering data to the communicator the server comparing the charging allocation to the metering data such that the communicator transmits a termination signal to the device link if the metering data exceeds the charging allocation the device link transmitting the termination signal to the charger link the power relay receiving the termination signal from the charger link such that the power relay disconnects the primary inductor from the power supply.

It is noted that wherein reference is made to the charging allocation it may be characterized as a first duration of time and wherein reference is made to the metering data it may be characterized as a second duration of time.

It is further noted that wherein reference is made to the charging allocation may be characterized as a first amount of electrical energy and wherein reference is made to the metering data it may be characterized as a second amount of electrical energy.

As required detailed embodiments of the present invention are disclosed herein however it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are merely exemplary of the invention that may be embodied in various and alternative forms. The figures are not necessarily to scale some features may be exaggerated or minimized to show details of particular components. Therefore specific structural and functional details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting but merely as a representative basis for teaching one skilled in the art to variously employ the present invention.

Aspects of the present disclosure relate to providing charging power to mobile electrical devices and controlling the power charging between the electrical devices and a power access point. The charging system of the current disclosure may use at least one power access point with possible functionality of communicating with a remote management server to allow a user to power or charge an electrical mobile device such as a mobile phone or the like. The mobile device may be operable to execute a provisioning software for paid charging enabling to control power charging through various methods as described hereinafter. The charging system may further allow a power provider to manage the power provision.

The mobile electrical device may be referred to herein as variously a user device an electrical device a mobile device a communication device or a device . The device may be an electronic device with a battery e.g. a mobile handset a media player a tablet computer a laptop notebook netbook ultra book a PDA or the like. Alternatively the device may be an accessory with a battery such as earphones and the like or a stand alone battery. As a further alternatively the device may be any powered device including electronic devices without a battery.

It is noted that the systems and methods of the disclosure herein may not be limited in its application to the details of construction and the arrangement of the components or methods set forth in the description or illustrated in the drawings and examples. The systems and methods of the disclosure may be capable of other embodiments or of being practiced or carried out in various ways.

Alternative methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein may be used in the practice or testing of embodiments of the disclosure. Nevertheless particular methods and materials are described herein for illustrative purposes only. The materials methods and examples are not intended to be necessarily limiting.

The proliferation of mobile electronic devices such as mobile handsets media players tablet computers and laptops notebooks netbooks and ultra books increases user demand for access to power points at which they may power or charge mobile devices while out and about or on the move.

Public spaces in which consumers may remain for extended periods of time say more than a few minutes or so may represent convenient sites for the provision of power offering the consumer the opportunity to power or charge the mobile devices. Amongst others such public settings may include restaurants coffee shops airport lounges trains buses taxis sports stadia auditoria theatres cinemas or the like.

It is noted that the provision of a paid service for the provision of power in such locations may provide a revenue stream to location operators and may be offered as a direct incentive to related purchases.

In order to enable this type of model a simple and convenient method may be required for associating a user with a specific charged device and to a specific charging outlet wired or wireless and to resolve payment and billing information retrieval.

The current disclosure relates to a system for enabling this task to be accomplished automatically and with no user intervention. The system may utilize preexisting transmitters that may be common amongst many mobile electronic devices with additional software management applications to them. Such an implementation may allow for the mass deployment of the system with little or no additional cost or inconvenience to the user.

It is particularly noted that although described primarily in relation to inductive power chargers the current disclosure may apply to any power providing schemes and are not limited to say wired or wireless charging schemes.

The system may include a plurality of power access points which may also be referred to as PAPs hotspots or chargers a user device which may also be referred to as a device and a management server which may also be referred to as a control server or a server .

The power access points may include an identification module a close communication module or the like. They may optionally also include a wireless LAN WAN transmission unit.

The mobile device may further be operable to execute a provisioning software for paid charging enabling the monitoring and controlling of power charging. Such a provisioning software may be an application that is preinstalled or accessed via a computer network such as by downloading from a so called apps store or operating as a web based application. Further the operation of the device in relation to the charging system described herein may be controlled by software embedded within the OS of the device the application programming interface API of the device OS or firmware. The provisioning software may be distributed among a combination of software embedded within the OS the application programming interface API of the device OS firmware a pre installed or downloaded application and or a web based application. For example the interaction of the device user with the charging system may be mediated with a preinstalled or downloaded application while the interaction of the device with the other components of the charging system such as the PAP and the server may be mediated through OS embedded software.

The provisioning software may run on a device having a user interface. Alternatively the device may not have a user interface.

The provisioning software may be automatically launched when charging is initiated on the device. Alternatively the user may launch the provisioning software and then allow the charging of the device to commence.

Optionally the device may have a wireless LAN WAN communication unit which does not necessarily have to match the LAN WAN transmission unit of the power access point. Furthermore the device may include a close communication module capable of communicating with the module on the power access point.

The management or control server may be in communication with the power access point the device or both. The communication channel may be mediated by wireless access points cellular networks wired networks or the like that may provide an internet protocol IP connection to at least one of the device or the power access point. It is further noted that optionally the communication channel to the power access point may be mediated indirectly via the device and the close communication module. Similarly the communication channel to the device may be mediated indirectly via the power access point.

Each device may have a unique identifier which may be referred to as a receiver identification RxID or device credential DC in the system that allows the recognition thereof. The RxID may be a MAC address. The server may store user or device related information in addition to the RxID such as billing information user credits or the like. In some embodiments the server may be further connected to a point of purchase cashiers to allow for user credits to be acquired.

Where appropriate power access points may have a unique identifier which may be referred to as a transmitter identification TxID or PAP credential PC in the system that allows the recognition thereof.

For illustrative purposes only possible methods for providing access to power for electrical devices in public spaces are presented hereinafter. The method may allow a user to power or charge an electrical device such as a mobile phone or the like from a power access point and may further allow a power provider to manage the power provision.

A user may place or connect a device to a power access point. For example an inductively enabled device may be placed upon an inductive power outlet. Alternatively or additionally a power supply may be conductively connected to an electrical device.

The power access point may detect the device connection. For example wired connection may be detected by detecting the load and wireless connection may be detected using various remote sensors such as hall sensors analog ping schemes or the like.

The power access point may enable power supply and charging for a predefined time Tduring which time period user credentials may be authenticated.

Optionally the power access point may transmit a random pattern to the device via the close communication. The power access point may further transmit that same pattern to a control server via a WAN LAN connection.

For example a software application running on the device may be operable to receive the pattern and to relay the same pattern to the server along with a user identification token.

Variously the server and device may exchange multiple messages to complete authentication of the user.

The server may thereby be able to associate the specific power access point with the specific device. If the user is deemed permitted to use the service the server may send a confirmation signal allowing the power access point to continue servicing the device. Where required the confirmation signal may define a specific time period for which the service is granted or send a disconnect event on termination of that time.

Where appropriate the server may additionally or alternatively define multiple levels of service for example as expressed in terms of current provided to different users. By way of example paying users may be enabled to access full powering capability perhaps up to 20 W or so while non paying users may be provided limited access to say 0.5 W which may be sufficient to charge only low power devices or perform trickle charge for completely depleted batteries.

During operation the power access point may be operable to receive operating signals from the control server. According to the operating signals received the power access point may be operable to perform various actions such as to continue providing power to abort power provision to modify the service in some way or the like.

As noted herein various methods may be implemented for enabling close communication between the device and the power access point.

In one particular embodiment the close communication channel between the device and power access point may be based upon audio signals sensed via a microphone of the device for example using specific audible bands 300 Hz 20 khz say. The audio signal may be emitted from an audio emitter such as a speaker or the like associated with the power access points. Many electrical devices such as mobile phones and the like have microphone and software applications may have access to the microphone.

It is noted that powering the microphone unit may itself demand power. Consequently the software application running on the device may activate the microphone only where a charge connect event is detected in the system. Accordingly upon device detection the power access point may provide an initial charging power to power the microphone. After a short interval an identification signal may be sent via the audio signal.

The audio signal may include additional tones that are not related to the communication pattern which may mask the random patterns communicated. For example an audio identification signal may be masked by a connection tone serving to provide users with an indication that a connection has been made.

Alternatively or additionally the close communication channel may be provided by the power access point alternating the activation of charging power to the device. The alternation of power supply is detected by most devices as charger connection and disconnection events that are communicated to the application layer on these devices.

The switching pattern may be coded with an identification signal such as the random pattern. The power access point may need to perform this switching in intervals spaced sufficiently apart to allow the devices to detect and report to application level charger connection and disconnection events.

Still other embodiments may use Bluetooth or Near Field Communication NFC to achieve the close communication channel. These could be combined with the basic power signal to trigger their activation thereby conserving power.

In various embodiments of this system the LAN WAN interface of the device may be WLAN or Cellular 2G 3G 4G connections. The connection to the WLAN or Cellular access point may also include manual or automatic insertion of user credentials. In this case the information may be conveyed to the system server to enable user identification. The information provided in order to allow access may also be stored by the device application and later provided directly to the system server.

Additionally or alternately the LAN WAN connection of the power access point may be achieved via the charged device. The power access point may encrypt messages to the server and deliver this to the application on the device via the close communication channel therebetween. The application may then send the message to the server via its LAN WAN connection.

Encrypted Instructions from the server to the power access point may be delivered back to the charged device which will relay them to the power access point via the close communication channel.

Where applicable the encryption may only allow the server and power access point to encrypt decrypt the messages but would prevent the charged device from altering or creating a legal message. Accordingly the transfer of the messages from server to power access point may require the existence of a bidirectional close communication channel. For audio signals this may be achieved by using the device speaker and including a microphone on the power access point.

Additionally or alternatively a bidirectional power based signaling scheme may be achieved by modulating the load of the device on the power access point. As many devices do not allow applications to directly control the charging current used or the system load it may be required to use some indirect techniques such as modulating screen illumination back light for LCD and direct pixel activation for OLED to vary the load.

It is further noted that inductive power transfer systems may offer additional options for close communication channels.

Referring to the disclosure provides an inductive charging system that includes at least one power access point PAP comprising a primary inductor capable of inductively coupling with a secondary inductor and further connectable to a power source and a power controller . The inductive charging system may further comprise a device comprising a secondary inductor connected to a load and capable of coupling with a primary inductor. The PAP may alternatively be referred to as a hotspot HS . The PAP may further include and LED display operable to display on off dimmer fade in out signals.

Further each device may have a unique identifier which may be referred to as a device credential DC or a receiver identification RxID . The device credential may be identified by a PAP when the device and PAP are in close proximity. The PAP may have a unique identifier which may be referred to as a PAP credential PC or a transmitter identification TxID . The PAP credential may be identified by the device . Further the PAP the device or both may be capable of communicating wirelessly to the power controller which may include a server having a central database in order to variously report PAP identifiers and or device identifiers report PAP usage and the like and to receive permission commands on off commands and the like.

The server may hold a set of policies that define the allowance of charging time for individual devices individual PAPs or combinations thereof and is configured to determine and send signals to switch PAPs on when proper allowances are present as well as send signals to turn the PAPs off when the allowance ends or is not present.

Referring now to the power access point PAP may include the following An inductive power transmitter a power meter a power relay and a charger link . The PAP may alternatively be referred to as a hotspot HS .

The primary inductor is capable of inductively coupling with a secondary inductor . The primary inductor and the PAP more generally may be capable of charging devices at one or more wattages e.g. about 5 W about 10 W about 40 W or about 65 W or any combination thereof. The system may be capable of identifying the power requirements of the device being charged and to appropriately switch the between different wattages according to the device . Furthermore a PAP may be operable to power devices with higher power requirements of say 100 watts 200 watts 300 watts 400 watts 500 watts or more perhaps 1 to 2 kilowatts where required to power directly a device such as a computer television projector kitchen appliance or the like.

The power meter is connected to the primary inductor and the power relay and is capable of measuring the amount of electrical energy being supplied to and consumed by the primary inductor . The power meter may alternatively or in addition be capable of measuring the amount of time the primary inductor is receiving power. The power meter may further be capable of communicating with the power controller to provide metering information e.g. amount of electrical energy power and or time of charging provided to the primary inductor to the power controller . This communication may be done directly with the power meter being enabled for wireless communication. Alternatively the power meter may be wired to a separate wireless communication component associated with the PAP . For example the power meter may be wired to the charger link which may be configured to wirelessly communicate with the power controller . As a further alternative the power meter may be wired to a separate wireless communication component not shown that is configured to communicate with the power controller .

The power relay may be connected to the power meter and the power supply . Further the power relay may be capable of toggling between an ON and OFF state such that the power supply is capable of providing power to the primary inductor when the power relay is in the ON state and the power supply is disconnected from the primary inductor when the power relay is in the OFF state. The power relay may further be capable of communicating with the power controller e.g. to receive instructions for being in the ON or OFF state. This communication may be done directly with the power relay being enabled for wireless communication. Alternatively the power relay may be wired to a separate wireless communication component within the PAP e.g. the charger link that may be configured to wirelessly communicate with the power controller or a separate wireless communication component not shown .

The charger link may be capable of sending and or receiving wireless data. For example the charger link may be capable of a sending a PAP credential PC to a device link in the device . Alternatively on in addition the charger link may be capable of receiving a device credential DC from the device link . The charger link may further be capable of communicating with the power controller for example to provide the PAP credential PC as well as relaying the device credential DC.

In addition the charger link may be wired to other components within the PAP e.g. the power relay the power meter the primary inductor or others and wirelessly transmit and or receive information with the power controller regarding those components.

The device may include may include the following A secondary inductor a reception circuit a device link and a load . The device may further include a screen .

The device link may be capable of sending and or receiving wireless data. For example the device link may be capable of a sending a device credential DC to the charger link in the PAP . Alternatively or in addition the device link may be capable of receiving a PAP credential from the charger link . The device link may further be capable of communicating with the power controller for example to provide the device credential DC as well as relaying the PAP credential. In addition the device link may be wired to other components within the device such as the secondary inductor the reception circuit the load or others and wirelessly transmit and or receive information with the power controller regarding those components.

Various information may be exchanged between the device link and the charger link e.g. the proximity of the device to the PAP the presence of the electric load location of the primary inductive coil location of the secondary inductive coil required operating voltage for the electric load required operating current for the electric load required operating temperature for the electric load required operating power for the electric load measured operating voltage for the electric load measured operating current for the electric load measured operating temperature for the electric load measured operating power for the electric load power delivered to the primary inductive coil power received by the secondary inductive coil the level of charge of the load and a user identification code.

A particular PAP may be assigned a unique PAP credential PC and each device is assigned a unique device credential DC. Alternatively the device credential DC may be assigned to particular user such that each device may have multiple device credentials assigned to various users of the device and conversely a device credential may be present in multiple devices in the case a user has multiple devices .

The power controller is capable of receiving a PAP credential PC from a PAP directly or indirectly and a device credential DC from a device directly or indirectly . The power controller may comprise a communicator which may be referred to as a gateway and a server having a central database . The server may be a cloud based server. The communicator may be connected to the server through an Ethernet connection and the like. The communicator may be configured to wireless communicate with the PAP and or the device to send and receive information such as PAP credentials PC and device credentials DC as well as subscription and other information relevant to initiating the inductive charging of the device by the PAP . The power controller may further be configured to send control signals e.g. an initiation signal IS and a termination signal TS to the PAP to control its function directly or indirectly via the device . In certain embodiments the PAP may be configured to connect directly with the server .

The power controller controls the initiation and maintenance of the charging of the device by the PAP . Aside from the appropriate alignment of the device and PAP such that primary inductor and the secondary inductor are capable of inductive coupling the PAP further requires the reception of an initiation signal IS originating from the power controller.

The central database may include a record of all PAP credentials PC of PAPs that is included in the inductive charging system as well as device credentials DC of devices that may receive inductive charge from a PAP . Each PAP credential PC may be associated with ancillary information for example store promotions free charging times e.g. free charging for 1 minute or free charging during authentication device manufacturer permissions the wattage levels of power transfer allowed charging rates and the like. Each device credential DC may be associated with ancillary information for example promotions the wattage levels of power transfer allowed personalized charging rates charging credits and the like. A user may purchase charging credits in the form of for example a pre paid plan a monthly plan and the like. In addition ancillary information may be associated with particular pairings of a PAP credential PC and a device credential DC for example the wattage levels of power transfer allowed or a promotion directed to an individual user provided by a particular store where a particular PAP is located.

Once the power controller is queried with a power request with a particular pairing of a device credential DC and a PAP credential PC it makes a determination based on the information stored in the database whether or not a charging allotment exists for the particular device credential DC in combination with the particular PAP credential. If there is the power controller returns an initiation signal IS to activate the PAP associated with the PAP credential PC by e.g. connecting the primary inductor with the power supply . The power controller may be configured to send a termination signal TS to the PAP after a pre determined period of time. Alternatively or in combination the power controller may receive metering data MD from the power meter directly if the power meter is capable of wireless communication or indirectly through a wireless communication component of the PAP or through the device and initiate a termination signal TS once the metering data MD indicates that the charge allocation or charge time has been used up.

In addition to the pairing of the device credential DC and the PAP credential PC the co localization of a PAP and a device may be confirmed by a random or pseudorandom code. After a device is placed near a PAP the PAP may transmit a random or pseudorandom code to the device which then relays the code to the power controller . In addition the PAP may transmit the same code to the power controller . Once the power controller receives the code from the PAP as well as the device co localization of the PAP and the device is confirmed.

The communication between a PAP a power controller and a device may be wireless. The wireless communication may be enabled by wireless communication components for example the charger link in the PAP the device link in the device and the communicator in the power controller . Each of the charger link the device link and the communicator may include multiple individual wireless communication modules or components for using different wireless communication modalities. For example the charger link and the device link may communicate through a first modality while the charger link and the device link may communicate with the communicator using a second modality. Alternatively the charger link and the device link may communicate through a first modality the charger link may communicate with the communicator using a second modality and the device link may communicate with the communicator using a third modality. The wireless communication modalities may include for example a wireless local area network WLAN such as WiFi Zigbee Z wave 6LowPAN and the like or a mobile data network such as 2G 3G 4G and the like. The modality of wireless communication in particular between a PAP and a device may in addition to the long range methods above may be mediated by a close communication module incorporated in the charger link an the device link which may be e.g. Near Field Communication NFC RFID tag and or receiver optical signals emitter and or receiver sound signals and or receiver or data encoded in the inductive coupling between the primary inductor and the secondary inductor . In certain embodiments the PAP may be configured to connect with the communicator or directly to the server through a wired connection such as an Ethernet connection. Each of the charger link and the device link may be operable for one way communication or for two way communication depending on the arrangement of the inductive charging system as described in further detail herein. For example in an arrangement having a one way communication from the device link to the charger link the device link may comprise an RFID tag and the charger link may comprise an RFID reader.

With reference to the disclosure provides for a charging surface comprising a plurality of PAPs . Multiple PAPs may be connected to a power supply . A power supply may be operable to provide power to six or more PAPs . Alternatively each PAP may be connected to a separate power supply not shown . The charging surface may be e.g. a table or a counter. The charging surface may be arranged parallel to the ground such that a device may be placed on top of a PAP . The PAP and the device may be configured such that they may be inductively coupled when the device is placed on top of the PAP . For example the inductive charging may be effective when the distance between the primary inductor in the PAP and the secondary inductor in the device are at a distance of up to 10 millimeters. The area of the PAP that is effective for inductive charging may be for example a circular area with a radius of 12 millimeters.

Each PAP may be structurally integrated into the charging surface . The PAPs may appear as a distinct device inserted within an indentation prepared in the charging surface . Alternatively the PAPs may be covered by the top portion of the charging surface with a visual mark denoting the locations of each PAP underneath.

The power controller is typically separate from the charging surface and is configured to communicate wirelessly with the PAP the device or both. Further the communicator may be configured to communicate with multiple charging surfaces. Typically a service location includes at least one communicator and at least one charging surface which comprises at least one PAP . Alternatively the communicator may be outside of the service location .

The communicator is typically not installed behind metallic walls in relation to the PAPs inside metallic cabinet or in low locations. Further the communicator may be operable to communicate with a PAP placed thirty meters or more away and through one or two non metallic walls. The total site radius the distance from the communicator to the farthest PAP may be a hundred meters. The communicator may be operable to support communication for say up to fifty PAPs or more than fifty PAPs .

The inductive charging system may include multiple service locations each including at least one communicator and at least one charging surface which comprises at least one PAP . The server may be configured to be connected to multiple communicators for example via the internet or an Ethernet connection. Typically the server is not located with a service location . The service location may be for example restaurants coffee shops airport lounges trains buses taxis sports stadia auditoria theatres cinemas or the like.

The portion of each PAP that is visible or section of the charging surface covering a PAP may be marked by a unique serial number identifying the PAP. The serial number may be a number unique to all the PAPs in service and connectable to the central database of the power controller .

The disclosure encompasses various procedures for the inductive charging system to initiate and maintain or terminate inductive charging between a PAP and a device through a power controller as described below.

With reference to the activation of PAP for charging the device may include a series of wireless information transfers. The user may begin the remote charging initiation procedure by for example putting the device in close proximity to the PAP instructing the device to begin the charging initiation procedure by e.g. opening an app or a website or pressing a switch on the PAP . Once the charging initiation process is begun the PAP wirelessly transmits its unique PAP credential PC to the device . The device then wirelessly transmits the received PAP credential PC together with its device credential DC to the power controller for example to the communicator . The server then determines a charging allocation for the received PAP credential device credential pair based on the ancillary information associated to the PAP credential PC and the device credential DC as stored in the database . If the charging allocation is greater than null the power controller for example via the communicator wirelessly transmits an initiation signal IS to the PAP thus activating the PAP e.g. by connecting the power supply to the primary inductor contained within the PAP . Other PAPs and devices may operate in parallel. For example the PAP may present its unique PAP credential PC to the device which then transmits the PAP credential PC and its device credential DC to the power controller which upon the determination of a charging allocation transmits another initiation signal IS to PAP thus activating it.

Reference is now made to . Upon the user beginning the remote charging initiation procedure the charger link in the PAP transmits the PAP credential PC to the device link in the device . The charger link as well as the device link may each comprise a transceiver for a WLAN such as WiFi Zigbee Z wave 6LowPAN and the like. Alternatively the charger link as well as the device link may each comprise a transceiver for a mobile data network such as 2G 3G 4G and the like. Alternatively the charger link may comprise an NFC tag and the device link may comprise an NFC reader. Alternatively the charger link may comprise an RFID tag and the device link may comprise an RFID reader. Alternatively the charger link may comprise an optical signal transmitter and the device link may comprise an optical detector. Alternatively the charger link may comprise a sound generator e.g. a speaker and the device link may comprise a sound detector e.g. a microphone. Alternatively the PAP credential PC and other data may be encoded within a magnetic field generated by the primary inductor and converted into an induced current in the device by the secondary inductor .

Upon receiving the PAP credential PC the device may transmit wirelessly the PAP credential PC and its device credential DC to the power controller e.g. to the communicator . The device link as well as the communicator may each comprise a transceiver for a WLAN such as WiFi Zigbee Z wave 6LowPAN and the like. Alternatively the device link as well as the communicator may each comprise a transceiver for a mobile data network such as 2G 3G 4G and the like.

Once the power controller is queried with a power request with a particular pairing of a device credential DC and a PAP credential PC it makes a determination based on the information stored in the database whether or not a charging allotment exists for the particular device credential DC in combination with the particular PAP credential. If there is the power controller wirelessly transmits an initiation signal IS to the PAP associated with the PAP credential PC that activates the PAP by e.g. connecting the primary inductor with the power supply . The initiation signal IS may be received by a power relay that is enabled for wireless communication. The power relay may comprise a transceiver for a WLAN such as WiFi Zigbee Z wave 6LowPAN and the like or a transceiver for a mobile data network such as 2G 3G 4G and the like. Alternatively the power relay may not be enabled for wireless communication and instead be wired to the charger link which receives the initiation signal IS.

Once the PAP is activated the power meter may provide the metering data MD wirelessly directly if wireless enabled or indirectly through the charger link to the power controller at timed intervals e.g. every 10 seconds every 30 seconds every minute or the like . The server compares the metering data MD to the charging allocation. Once the metering data MD reaches or exceeds the charging allocation the power controller may transmit a termination signal TS wirelessly to the power relay which disengages the PAP e.g. by the power relay disconnecting the primary inductor from the power supply . The power meter may comprise a transceiver for a WLAN such as WiFi Zigbee Z wave 6LowPAN and the like or a transceiver for a mobile data network such as 2G 3G 4G and the like. Alternatively the power meter may not be enabled for wireless communication and instead be wired to the charger link which transmits the metering data MD. Alternatively or in addition the device may transmit to the power controller the level of charge of the load . The charging allocation determined by the server may be e.g. an allowance to receive a full charge or an allowance to receive a partial charge the reception of a predetermined level of power by the load or the like.

With reference to the activation of PAP for charging the device may be initiated by a manual entry of the PAP credential PC into the device followed by a series of wireless information transfers. The user may begin the remote charging initiation procedure by entering the PAP credential PC of the desired PAP into the device . The PAP credential may be a code written on or near each PAP or may be encoded in an image that the user captures with an image capture device incorporated within the device e.g. a built in camera . Once the user enters the PAP credential PC into the device the device wirelessly transmits the received PAP credential PC together with its device credential DC to the power controller for example to the communicator . The server then determines a charging allocation for the received PAP credential device credential pair based on the ancillary information associated to the PAP credential PC and the device credential DC as stored in the database . If the charging allocation is greater than null the power controller for example via the communicator wirelessly transmits an initiation signal IS to the PAP thus activating the PAP e.g. by connecting the power supply to the primary inductor contained within the PAP . Other PAPs and devices may operate in parallel. For example the user may enter a PAP credential PC to the device which then transmits the entered PAP credential PC and its device credential DC to the power controller which upon the determination of a charging allocation transmits another initiation signal IS to PAP thus activating it.

Reference is now made to . The user begins the remote charging initiation procedure by entering the PAP credential PC via a PAP credential PC input . The PC input may be the manual entry of the PAP credential via a keyboard or the capturing of an image encoding the PAP credential PC via a built in camera. The PC input is wired to a device link . The device link may comprise a transceiver for a WLAN such as WiFi Zigbee Z wave 6LowPAN and the like or a transceiver for a mobile data network such as 2G 3G 4G and the like. Upon receiving the PAP credential PC the device may transmit wirelessly the PAP credential PC and its device credential DC to the power controller e.g. to the communicator .

Once the power controller is queried with a power request with a particular pairing of a device credential DC and a PAP credential PC it makes a determination based on the information stored in the database whether or not a charging allotment exists for the particular device credential DC in combination with the particular PAP credential. If there is the power controller wirelessly transmits an initiation signal IS to the PAP associated with the PAP credential PC that activates the PAP for example by connecting the primary inductor with the power supply . The initiation signal IS may be received by a power relay that is enabled for wireless communication. The power relay may comprise a transceiver for a WLAN such as WiFi Zigbee Z wave 6LowPAN and the like or a transceiver for a mobile data network such as 2G 3G 4G and the like. Alternatively the power relay may not be enabled for wireless communication and instead be wired to the charger link not shown which receives the initiation signal IS.

Once the PAP is activated the power meter provides the metering data MD wirelessly directly if wireless enabled or indirectly through the charger link to the power controller at timed intervals e.g. every 10 seconds every 30 seconds every minute or the like . The server compares the metering data MD to the charging allocation. Once the metering data MD reaches or exceeds the charging allocation the power controller may transmit a termination signal TS wirelessly to the power relay which disengages the PAP e.g. by the power relay disconnecting the primary inductor from the power supply . The power meter may comprise a transceiver for a WLAN such as WiFi Zigbee Z wave 6LowPAN and the like or a transceiver for a mobile data network such as 2G 3G 4G and the like. Alternatively the power meter may not be enabled for wireless communication and instead be wired to a charger link not shown which transmits the metering data MD. Alternatively or in addition the device may transmit to the power controller the level of charge of the load . The charging allocation determined by the server may be e.g. an allowance to receive a full charge or an allowance to receive a partial charge the reception of a predetermined level of power by the load or the like.

With reference to the activation of PAP for charging the device may include a series of wireless information transfers. The user may begin the remote charging initiation procedure by for example putting the device in close proximity to the PAP instructing the device to begin the charging initiation procedure by e.g. opening an app or a website or pressing a switch on the PAP . Once the charging initiation process is begun the device wirelessly transmits its unique device credential DC to the PAP . The PAP then wirelessly transmits its PAP credential PC together with the received device credential DC to the power controller for example to the communicator . The server then determines a charging allocation for the received PAP credential device credential pair based on the ancillary information associated to the PAP credential PC and the device credential DC as stored in the database . If the charging allocation is greater than null the power controller for example via the communicator wirelessly transmits an initiation signal IS to the PAP thus activating the PAP e.g. by connecting the power supply to the primary inductor contained within the PAP . Other PAPs and devices may operate in parallel. For example the device may present its unique device credential DC to the PAP which then transmits its PAP credential PC and the received device credential DC to the power controller which upon the determination of a charging allocation transmits another initiation signal IS to PAP thus activating it.

Reference is now made to . Upon the user beginning the remote charging initiation procedure the device link in the PAP transmits the device credential DC to the charger link in the PAP . The charger link as well as the device link may each comprise a transceiver for a WLAN such as WiFi Zigbee Z wave 6LowPAN and the like. Alternatively the charger link as well as the device link may each comprise a transceiver for a mobile data network such as 2G 3G 4G and the like. Alternatively the charger link may comprise an NFC reader and the device link may comprise an NFC tag. Alternatively the charger link may comprise an RFID reader and the device link may comprise an RFID tag. Alternatively the charger link may comprise an optical detector and the device link may comprise an optical signal transmitter. Alternatively the charger link may comprise a sound detector e.g. a microphone and the device link may comprise a sound generator e.g. a speaker. Alternatively the device credential DC and other data may be encoded within a pattern of load changes in the device e.g. generated by the reception circuit or varying the level of screen illumination which is then detected by the PAP through changes in the current passing through the primary inductor .

Upon receiving the device credential DC the PAP may transmit wirelessly its PAP credential PC and the device credential DC to the power controller e.g. to the communicator . The charger link as well as the communicator may each comprise a transceiver for a WLAN such as WiFi Zigbee Z wave 6LowPAN and the like. Alternatively the charger link as well as the communicator may each comprise a transceiver for a mobile data network such as 2G 3G 4G and the like.

Once the power controller is queried with a power request with a particular pairing of a device credential DC and a PAP credential PC it makes a determination based on the information stored in the database whether or not a charging allotment exists for the particular device credential DC in combination with the particular PAP credential. If there is the power controller wirelessly transmits an initiation signal IS to the PAP associated with the PAP credential PC that activates the PAP by e.g. connecting the primary inductor with the power supply . The initiation signal IS may be received by a power relay that is enabled for wireless communication. The power relay may comprise a transceiver for a WLAN such as WiFi Zigbee Z wave 6LowPAN and the like or a transceiver for a mobile data network such as 2G 3G 4G and the like. Alternatively the power relay may not be enabled for wireless communication and instead be wired to the charger link which receives the initiation signal IS.

Once the PAP is activated the power meter provides the metering data MD wirelessly directly if wireless enabled or indirectly through the charger link to the power controller at timed intervals e.g. every 10 seconds every 30 seconds every minute or the like . The server compares the metering data MD to the charging allocation. Once the metering data MD reaches or exceeds the charging allocation the power controller may transmit a termination signal TS wirelessly to the power relay which disengages the PAP e.g. by the power relay disconnecting the primary inductor from the power supply . The power meter may comprise a transceiver for a WLAN such as WiFi Zigbee Z wave 6LowPAN and the like or a transceiver for a mobile data network such as 2G 3G 4G and the like. Alternatively the power meter may not be enabled for wireless communication and instead be wired to the charger link which transmits the metering data MD. Alternatively or in addition the device may transmit to the power controller via the PAP the level of charge of the load . The charging allocation determined by the server may be e.g. an allowance to receive a full charge or an allowance to receive a partial charge the reception of a predetermined level of power by the load or the like.

With reference to the activation of PAP for charging the device may include a series of wireless information transfers where the communication with the power controller is primarily or entirely mediated by the device . The user may begin the remote charging initiation procedure by for example putting the device in close proximity to the PAP instructing the device to begin the charging initiation procedure by e.g. opening an app or a website or pressing a switch on the PAP . Once the charging initiation process is begun the PAP wirelessly transmits its unique PAP credential PC to the device . The device then wirelessly transmits the received PAP credential PC together with its device credential DC to the power controller for example to the communicator . The server then determines a charging allocation for the received PAP credential device credential pair based on the ancillary information associated to the PAP credential PC and the device credential DC as stored in the database . If the charging allocation is greater than null the power controller for example via the communicator wirelessly transmits an initiation signal IS to the device which then relays the initiation signal IS to the PAP thus activating the PAP e.g. by connecting the power supply to the primary inductor contained within the PAP . Other PAPs and devices may operate in parallel. For example the PAP may present its unique PAP credential PC to the device which then transmits the PAP credential PC and its device credential DC to the power controller which upon the determination of a charging allocation transmits another initiation signal IS to the device which then relays the initiation signal IS to the PAP thus activating it.

Reference is now made to . Upon the user beginning the remote charging initiation procedure the charger link in the PAP transmits the PAP credential PC to the device link in the device . The charger link as well as the device link may each comprise a transceiver for a WLAN such as WiFi Zigbee Z wave 6LowPAN or the like. Alternatively the charger link as well as the device link may each comprise a transceiver for a mobile data network such as 2G 3G 4G and the like.

Near field communication between the PAP and the device may be provided as well. Where the communication with the power controller is primarily or entirely mediated by the device it may be desirable for the wireless communication between the PAP and the device to be bi directional. As such the charger link and the device link may each comprise an NFC tag as well as an NFC reader. Alternatively the charger link and the device link may each comprise an RFID tag as well as an RFID reader. Alternatively the charger link and the device link may each comprise an optical signal transmitter an optical detector. Alternatively the charger link and the device link may each comprise a sound generator e.g. a speaker and a sound detector e.g. a microphone. Alternatively the PAP credential PC and other data may be encoded within a magnetic field generated by the primary inductor and converted into an induced current in the device by the secondary inductor . In addition data may be encoded within a pattern of load changes in the device e.g. generated by the reception circuit or varying the level of screen illumination which is then detected by the PAP through changes in the current passing through the primary inductor . Upon receiving the PAP credential PC the device may transmit wirelessly the PAP credential PC and its device credential DC to the power controller e.g. to the communicator . The device link as well as the communicator may each comprise a transceiver for a WLAN such as WiFi Zigbee Z wave 6LowPAN and the like. Alternatively the device link as well as the communicator may each comprise a transceiver for a mobile data network such as 2G 3G 4G and the like.

Once the power controller is queried with a power request with a particular pairing of a device credential DC and a PAP credential PC it makes a determination based on the information stored in the database whether or not a charging allotment exists for the particular device credential DC in combination with the particular PAP credential. If there is the power controller wirelessly transmits an initiation signal IS to the device link which then transfers the IS to the power relay wired to the charger link thus activating the PAP by e.g. connecting the primary inductor with the power supply . Alternatively the initiation signal IS may be received from the device link directly by a power relay that is enabled for wireless communication. The power relay may comprise a transceiver for a WLAN such as WiFi Zigbee Z wave 6LowPAN and the like or a transceiver for a mobile data network such as 2G 3G 4G and the like.

Once the PAP is activated the power meter may provide the metering data MD wirelessly directly if wireless enabled or indirectly through the charger link to the device link at timed intervals e.g. every 10 seconds every 30 seconds every minute or the like . The device link may transfer the metering data MD to the power controller . The server compares the metering data MD to the charging allocation. Once the metering data MD reaches or exceeds the charging allocation the power controller may transmit a termination signal TS wirelessly to the power relay indirectly via the device link which disengages the PAP e.g. by the power relay disconnecting the primary inductor from the power supply . The power meter may comprise a transceiver for a WLAN such as WiFi Zigbee Z wave 6LowPAN and the like or a transceiver for a mobile data network such as 2G 3G 4G and the like. Alternatively the power meter may not be enabled for wireless communication and instead be wired to the charger link which transmits the metering data MD. Alternatively or in addition the device may transmit to the power controller the level of charge of the load . The charging allocation determined by the server may be e.g. an allowance to receive a full charge or an allowance to receive a partial charge the reception of a predetermined level of power by the load or the like.

The provisioning software may provide instructions controlling one or more aspects of the charging procedure. The Hotspot may be configured to begin charging as soon as it detects a device with a secondary inductor capable of coupling with its primary inductor. The user may be notified that the charging has started. The RxID the device credentials and or the TxID the PAP credentials may be communicated to the server to check the charging allowance for the device Hotspot or the combination thereof. If the charging is allowed then the server may respond with a start charging command and the charging continues e.g. the Hotspot is allowed to continue transmitting power . If the charging is not allowed then the server may respond with a stop charging command and the charging is stopped e.g. the Hotspot s power transmission is shut off . Throughout the charging process the RxID and the TxID as well as the commands sent by the server may be logged in a server log.

When the device includes a secondary inductor capable of coupling with its primary inductor but lacks a RxID a legacy receiver the lack of a RxID may be communicated to the server. The server may apply a legacy receiver policy which may be to respond with a stop charging command. The lack of RxID the TxID of the PAP involved and the commands sent by the server may further be logged in the server log.

The Hotspot may be requested to stop charging e.g. stop charging command sent from server for example in the following situations hotspot identifies that there is no RxID on the device the policy check for the RxID TxID returned an empty allowance the allowance for the RxID TxID ended timed out the Hotspot senses that the internal temperature has reached its defined safety limit stop charging command may be triggered by the Hotspot itself or the PAP may be configured to be activated only when a device with a secondary inductor capable of coupling with its primary inductor is placed on it.

When a stop charging command is sent from the server for a specific RxID and TxID the Hotspot may verify that the RxID is still the device that is on it before executing the stop command. If the RxID matches the charging is stopped and the Hotspot may send a notification to the server that the charging event for the TxID and RxID was stopped. If the RxID does not match the Hotspot may ignore the command and send a non matching command event with current RxID notice to the server so that the previous session with the former RxID can be closed in the server and the current session with the new RxID can be opened if it s not opened already.

The Hotspots that receive a stop command from the server may respond with an Ack acknowledgement response back to the server. The Ack notice may include the relevant TxID and the RxID. The server may check periodically that the stop commands it sent produces an Ack response back from the Hotspot. Every x minutes the server may check the list of Hotspots a stop command queue to which the stop command was sent. The server may remove from this list the Hotspots that did send an Ack for the same TxID RxID. If an Ack is not received after a predetermined time period the server may send a warning message to the support event log.

When the device is removed from the Hotspot the Hotspot may send a removal event notification with the TxID and RxID to the server. The Hotspot may further confirm removal before sending the removal event notification by e.g. having a delay period while checking for presence of the same device e.g. with the same RxID in order to prevent false alarms when the inductive connection or communication between the device and PAP is only momentarily disturbed through e.g. user adjustment unintentional movement e.g. Hotspot support movement and the like. After the server receives the removal event notification the server may respond with a stop charging command to the Hotspot if still active and the Hotspot may reset to a ready to charge state ready to receive another or the same device.

The Hotspot device or gateway may send a request to the server for a status update periodically e.g. once every x seconds. The server may respond with one or more commands such as a stop charging command with the TxID of the Hotspot that needs to be stopped and the RxID of the device that the server assumes is still on the Hotspot charge about to end notification for the TxID RxID pair with a message regarding the amount time left sent to the device Hotspot or both to be displayed other text to be displayed on the Hotspot the device or both notifying status of charge.

The communication between the device the Hotspot and the server may further include fraud checkups including The server verifying that there is no more than one concurrent request to charge a certain RxID Concurrent charging requests for the same RxID in different locations may result with a black listed RxID there may be a need to adjust and refine tolerance to prevent blocking too quickly for example If a user removes a device from one Hotspot but the device removed command was not sent to the server and goes to charge on another Hotspot the server may think that it is a duplicate RxID The legitimate owner of a blacklisted RxID may have to request for a new optionally free RxID and replace it on the device. The new RxID may be provided e.g. by a new RFID tag or a replacement power receiver unit with the new RFID tag.

In the case of lost messages between a Hotspot and a server the Hotspot may send a still charging RxID message to the server.

Reference is now made to the flowchart of representing a possible procedure for initiation and maintaining termination of inductive charging between a Hotspot and a device. When a device is not present the Hotspot may be configured to be in an idle phase during which it periodically sends a query for the presence of an inductive entity e.g. a secondary inductor in a device . The querying may be a ping which may be a momentary activation of the primary inductor which may provide a momentary induced current in a nearby inductive entity if present step . If a ping detects a secondary inductor step the Hotspot may enter an engagement phase at which point the Hotspot produces another momentary activation of the primary inductor while monitoring for modulations in the power transmission current passing through its primary inductor which may be caused by systematic modulations in the electrical properties of the device having the secondary inductor. Through such a mechanism a signal may be passed from the device to the Hotspot e.g. a MAC address from the device if present step . The Hotspot may check that the presumed MAC address is a valid one step . If the MAC address is valid the Hotspot informs the cloud based server and provides the MAC address as the RxID as well as its own TxID step . The server sends a start charging command to start a charging cycle. The Hotspot initiates charging or continues charging if already started and monitors current voltage temperature and other features of the charging process step . The Hotspot may continue to monitor for an end of charge EOC signal step . In the absence of an EOC signal the charging cycle continues. The charging cycle may end upon the elapsing of the EOC signal transmission delay and the server sends the EOC signal to the Hotspot. Alternatively the charging cycle may end when the device is removed from the Hotspot.

When a new device is detected by ping mechanism the Hotspot enters the engagement phase and received a burst of modulations in the power transfer signal which the Hotspot de modulates into a serial digital stream of bits which may include a MAC Address according to the RxID format specification. The Hotspot verifies the existence and the integrity of the MAC Address. If a MAC address is not detected by the Hotspot the RxID is defined as Null and the charging procedure follows the protocol for legacy devices. If there is evidence for a MAC address but the MAC address is not valid the Hotspot queries the device again to re send its MAC Address. After five attempts the MAC address may be defined as non valid. When the MAC address is not valid the device may be blacklisted or the charging procedure may follow the protocol for legacy devices. If the MAC address format is valid it becomes the current RxID and is forwarded to the server for charge allowance determination.

Digital communications may carry information relating to various factors such as operational data supplementary data identification data or the like. For example operation data may include load characteristics load identity desired operating parameters actual operating parameters or target operating parameters such as induced voltage induced current required current operating temperature charge level or such like. Supplementary data may include location data synchronization of data media files say streamed media or the like.

Where appropriate such digital communications may be used to provide additional power transfer management. For example the digital communications may be used to communicate inter alia data relating to the resonant frequency of the system the selected range of operational frequencies the sizes of increment values of frequency or power by which the driver changes the power level when a P UP signal P DOWN signal P DUP signal or the like is received load or receiver specific maximum power levels limits above which the inductive power transmitter should not transmit power power limiting for safety etc.

It is particularly noted that the digital communication may be used to pass identification data between the inductive power receiver and the inductive power outlet. Identification data may include for example a device specific identity code a user specific identity code a receiver specific identity code or the like. Such identification codes may be used to pair a specific inductive outlet e.g. a Hotspot assigned with a TxID to a specific inductive receiver e.g. a device assigned with a RxID . It is noted that identification codes may be of particular utility in commercial systems where the identity of the user or receiver may be used to determine the permissions of that receiver to draw power from that outlet to determine billing procedure for that power drawing action to monitor the behavior of a particular user or receiver or the like. Still further uses for the data communication will occur to those skilled in the art such as those described in the applicants copending applications U.S. Ser. Nos. 61 682 604 and 61 584 268 which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. See also international application PCT IL2012 050142 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

It is further noted that identification of the receiver RxID may be used to determine user specific actions such as adjusting local environment. For example in a vehicle based system a inductive transmitter may use identification data received from an inductive power receiver to adjust the mirror seat orientation seat temperature air conditioning radio selections and the like to suit the personal preferences of the user. In another example in a household environment the inductive transmitter may use identification data to cancel alarms adjust the ambience lighting media preferences or the like to suit the user.

Furthermore identification data may be used for billing purposes or may be used to determine personalized advertising targeted to the user.

Digital communications may be transmitted using a signal transfer system embedded in the circuitry serving the inductive power transmission between the Hotspot and the device. It will be appreciated that digital communications may be constructed from multiple bits of information each of which may have a logic state 0 or a logic state 1. The signal transfer system described herein may assign logic state peak pulses having differing characteristic frequencies to represent logic state 0 and logic state 1 and therewith to construct digital data. By way of example a logic state peak pulse may be assigned a characteristic frequency such as 2 kilohertz 4 kilohertz 5 kilohertz 6 kilohertz 10 kilohertz 50 kilohertz or the like.

Optionally a dedicated characteristic frequency peak pulse may be reserved for a logic state peak pulse. Alternatively where required a logic state peak pulse may share a characteristic frequency with one or more instruction signals.

It will be appreciated that communications or messages may be constructed from multiple bits. Strings of bits may represent bytes of information. Where appropriate a byte may be characterized as a string of 10 bits a BitST Bit Bit Bit Bit Bit Bit Bit Bit and BitSP. The initial bit BitST may be a START bit used to indicate that the following string of eight bits represent a byte and BitSP may be a STOP bit used to indicate that the byte has terminated. According to a particular example BitST may set to logic state 0 to indicate initiation of a byte of data and BitSP may be set to logic state 1 to indicate the byte s termination.

A processor associated with a peak detector of the primary inductor of the Hotspot power may be operable to interpret peak pulses of various characteristic frequencies differently depending upon the timing of the transmission and the operational phase during which it is transmitted.

For example a peak pulse having a certain characteristic frequency which is used as an instruction signal during power transmission such as described above may be used as a logic state pulse signal otherwise. Accordingly in a non limiting example during an initial identification phase a peak pulse having the characteristic frequency of an ID signal may be used to represent logic state 0 and a peak pulse having the characteristic frequency of the P SAME say signal may be used to represent logic state 1. Whereas during transmission phase P SAME may be used to instruct the driver to continue to drive the primary inductor.

It is further noted that during transmission one logical state may be represented by an unambiguous characteristic frequency and the other logical state may be represented by any one of a set of other characteristic frequencies.

For example logic state 0 may be represented by its own characteristic frequency MsgBIT say 6 kilohertz. By contrast logic state 1 may not have its own unique characteristic frequency. Instead any of the other characteristic frequencies may be interpreted as representing logic state 1 by the processor associated with the peak detector of primary inductor of the Hotspot.

It is noted that where multiple characteristic frequencies are all interpreted as the same logical state the selection of the characteristic frequencies used may convey another level of information concurrently with the digital message. Thus for example during transmission a digital message may be communicated using the MsgBIT frequency to represent logic state 0 while selection of the characteristic frequency for logic state 1 may be determined by the transmission requirement of the system at that instant. Accordingly in the example 

if the power received by the inductive receiver is below a required level the power increase signal P UP may be used to represent logic state 1 such that the driver also increases the power level by an incremental value 

if the power received by the inductive receiver is above a required level the power increase signal P DOWN may be used to represent logic state 1 such that the driver also decreases the power level by an incremental value 

if the power received by the inductive receiver is within a required range the power increase signal P SAME may be used to represent logic state 1 such that the driver continue to drive the primary inductor with the same power level and

if the load requires no more power the termination signal END SIG may be used to represent logic state 1 such that the driver ceases to drive the primary inductor and the inductive power outlet reverts to standby mode.

Accordingly it is a particular feature of the present disclosure that digital communications may be transferred from the inductive receiver to the inductive outlet concurrently with power transmission regulation signals.

It is also noted that the digital communication may be used to provide a digital ping. Optionally a digital ping phase may be used to identify that the receiver is valid for example. In order to engage with a possible receiver a digital ping is generated. This digital ping may have a pre defined structure regarding the frequencies and timing that should be used. If sufficient power is delivered to the receiver it will respond by modulating the power signal according to the communication protocol. Where the transmitter received a valid signal from the receiver it may continue to an identification phase without removing the power signal or a power transfer phase.

Optionally inductive power receivers devices may have characteristic identification codes MACID which may be communicated in an ID signal RxID accordingly the receiver may be operable to identify itself to the inductive power outlet by sending the identification code MACID in the ID signal RxID .

According to one example protocol where the receiver responds to the digital ping the receiver may transmit a characteristic frequency peak pulse say the P SAME signal. The receiver may be operable to transmit such a signal within a millisecond after entering the ping phase and may continue transmitting this signal for an identification period tID before continuing to an identification phase. Optionally entry to the digital ping phase on the receiver may be considered as the point where the bridge voltage of the Receiver reaches an initial rectified voltage Vstart required to bring the communication and control unit to an active state.

Where appropriate the RxID message structure may comprise a string of bytes such as described herein. The byte string may comprise a preamble byte a message ID byte the MAC identification MACID which may itself comprise a string of six bytes and a two byte cyclic redundancy check CRC . Optionally in a particular embodiment the Preamble byte is fixed to 0x00 and the Message ID byte is set to 0xAA. It will be appreciated that other messages may be defined as suit requirements. Optionally where required a Certification Version byte may be included possibly between the messagelD byte and the MACID field.

According to a particular embodiment the receiver may use the following flow of operation On the completion of the Digital Ping phase prior to enabling charging to the device the receiver may transmit a RxID message to make sure it is a fully compliant device. A guard time of 20 milliseconds is provided during which the transmitter calculates the CRC of the RxID message and the receiver transmits P SAME signals. Once the guard time is over the receiver may enter a power transfer phase.

The inductive power outlet may receive the RxID message and calculate the CRC while maintaining the power level stable. If the CRC is valid the inductive power transmitter will move to power transfer phase. If the CRC was not valid the inductive power transmitter will remove the power carrier and transition to the standby phase. It may then restart the Digital Ping phase with the receiver and repeat the identifications attempt.

Reference is now made to showing an exemplary embodiment of a Hotspot . The Hotspot may include an RFID antenna wired to an RFID reader . The RFID antenna may be operable to receive information from an RFID tag located on a device placed on the Hotspot . The information from the RFID tag may include e.g. a RxID assigned to the device. The Hotspot may further include a primary coil wired to a driver . The driver may be connectable to a power source via an ON OFF switch . The ON OFF switch may be control by a controller circuit . The controller circuit may be wired to a communication module which is configured to communicate wirelessly with the server not shown via a communicator which may alternatively be referred to as a gateway . The controller circuit may be operable to send and receive information e.g. RxID of the device placed on the Hotspot TxID of the Hotspot notifications commands and the like with the server through the communication module and the communicator as well as receive RxID information when present from the RFID reader thus coordinate the activation of the Hotspot with the server.

The RFID tag may be designed to supply means of identification for a unique user through its receiver i.e. a RxID . The basic level of identification may be of a uniquely identified receiver of an anonymous user while an advanced identification may provide cross referenced data regarding a unique RxID and the real user that owns it.

RxID enables many advantages including the following even at the basic level of identification and the advantages are enhanced when the advanced identification exists 

RxID enables user usage statistics The RxID may be served as a unique ID for a receiver that can be identified by the Hotspot . The Hotspot can report to the server when a certain device was placed on it and when it was removed. Collecting this data over time and multiple devices results in a dataset of usage patterns and usage trends even at the basic identification level in which only unique receivers are tracked. The information becomes yet more valuable if a user registers with an RxID so that device usage patterns can be attached to an actual user account and details.

RxID enables device usage statistics By linking a certain RxID tag to a certain device at manufacturing or later statistics about usage for certain types of devices may be collected which enables identification of problems or issues with a production batch or a product type.

RxID enables a policy management mechanism When users are identified basic or advanced the execution of a policy management mechanism becomes possible. An identification method enables various services such as enablement of certain free time to users a day or distinct policies to user groups individuals.

RFID tags and receivers may communicate at a frequency that is free of charge to use e.g. 13.56 MHz. The RFID tag information communicated to the RFID reader may be encrypted. The RFID identification time may be 2 seconds or less or 1 second or less. The RFID tag an RFID reader as well as the surrounding components of the hotspot and the device may be configured to enable the operation of two parallel RFID antennas that are placed 5 inches or less apart. The RFID reader may be operable to read a RFID tag situated up to 3 cm above the flush surface of the Hotspot where the device with the RFID tag is placed .

The RFID reader may be operable to identify the RxID of multiple devices up to 4 5 or more devices placed in range and relay the information to the server e.g. through the controller circuit and communication module .

The RFID reader may be configured to operate without disrupting the operations of a built in Near Field Communications NFC module if present .

The communications module which mediates wireless communication between each Hotspot and the communicator leading to the server may be a Zigbee module. Zigbee is a specification for a suite of high level communication protocols using small low power digital radios. The communications module may be capable of operating in a 2.4 GHz rich environment e.g. WIFI in shops wireless accessories such a cordless mouse or cordless earphones and other transmitting devices as well as Bluetooth. The Zigbee may run a qualified Z. B Protack. Each Zigbee node may be operable to work as non sleepy end point and Zigbee router. The Zigbee module may further include a built in antenna have a UART interface to the Main MCU and may be operable to reset the Hotspot via remote command from the cloud or the server. The data transferred by the communications module may be encrypted. The wireless connection between the communications module and the communicator may be strong enough to go through two or more brick walls such that the connection may remain functional with the communicator installed in a back room secluded from the room with the Hotspots with additional objects such as people or metallic objects passing between the Hotspots and the gateway.

Once a user places a device on the Hotspot charging may begin instantaneously so that user experience is equivalent to the user experience with retail products. Following an immediate charging the Hotspot and or device may execute a process of credentials checking where the RxID and or the TxID is sent to the server to determine whether or not the charging of the particular device with the particular Hotspot is allowed. An allowance results in continued charging of the device by the Hotspot which while a non allowance results in the termination of charging. The on off switch then provides a means of denying charging upon a server command that is based on policies.

When communication to the server is not available an off command may not be received from the server thus charging may not be stopped. This may provide a default On experience in case of server communication problems.

One power source may provide power to multiple Hotspots . The Hotspots may be configured such that up to ten Hotspots may be supported by one power source .

The Communicator mediates the connection of one or more Hotspots to the server which may be cloud based. The communicator may support the connection of up to 50 Hotspots .

The server may support a service platform that provides the ability to supply wireless charging service on Hotspots in public places. The server may hold a set of policies that define the allowance of charging time for users on Hotspots and may be able to switch Hotspots off when the allowance ends. The server may provide services to several groups of devices and users. The backend engine functionality as well as the functional features for each type of user of the system will be described hereinbelow.

To calculate the charging allowance of a device placed on a Hotspot the server may receive a notification of charging start for a device identified via RxID and a Hotspot identified via TxID . The server may confirm the allowance of the device for charging based on remaining time in the one or more layers of the service plan.

If allowance 0 an immediate Off command is sent back to the HS with the RxID so that the HS will execute it only if the device with the same RxID is still on it.

If allowance 0 the server adds an Off command to a queue to be sent later to the HS at a specified later time.

The HS may execute the Off command upon receipt. The HS may not have an internal clock with the server being the component that calculates the allowance time and sends the Off command on time.

In a case where multiple RxIDs are detected by one Hotspot the server checks the allowance of all of the tags together. If only one of the RxIDs has an allowance and all the rest do not the server will base the subsequent commands on the RxID with the allowance.

The allowance for the device on the Hotspot may be determined according to multiple levels of service layers e.g. 3 levels as a first level all users may receive a free allowance of a specified period of time of T. Tmay be renewed every day and may be used at any one or more locations that provide the charging service as a second level users may be qualified for a chain promotion or a specific store promotion that provides an additional portion of time for free charging or as a third level users may purchase charging packages.

The server may maintain the charging balance of individual users devices. The daily balance may be impacted by the following the Tallowance that may renew daily charging start time for the RxID charging stop time for the RxID removal of the device associated with the RxID from the Hotspot qualification of RxID for store promotion status of the user purchased charging package.

The charging package may be an unlimited service plan that allows unlimited charging on all Hotspots for the duration of the plan e.g. day week month year and the like. Alternatively the charging package may be an invoicing plan where the user is allowed to charge the device freely on any Hotspot and is then invoiced subsequently for the usage on a regular basis e.g. on a monthly basis. The charging package may be purchased as an independent user or as a corporate user that incorporates multiple users within a group.

Reference is now made to the flowchart of representing a possible procedure for initiation and maintaining termination of inductive charging between a Hotspot and a device. Initially the Hotspot may be held in a ready state step . A user may place a device on a hotspot step . The hotspot may sense the placement and initiate charging step . Where appropriate the hotspot controller may wake up the RFID reader. The RFID reader may search for an RFID tag on the receiver to verify its existence step . If an RFID is discovered a policy may be requested from the cloud server identified by RxID of the device and TxID of the Hotspot step and a message may be sent to the cloud server stating that a receiver with a designated RxID has started to charge.

The server may use the TxID information with the RxID information to log the fact that a device with the specified RxID started to charge on a Hotspot with the specified TxID. Furthermore the server may retrieve information from a user and policy database or the like and possibly from external user management systems for example regarding applicable policies and user plans step . Where appropriate the server may further calculate the charging allowance for that user at that place at that date and time and log the result of the calculation step .

If no RFID is discovered within a given time say three seconds charging is stopped step and a notification message may be sent to the cloud server reporting the event step stating that an unidentified receiver has started to charge. Optionally the Hotspot may register to itself which RxID is coupled thereto.

The cloud server may test if the device user with the specified RxID is allowed to charge step . Where the user is not permitted to charge for any reason the Hotspot may be notified and instructed to cease charging forthwith by sending an immediate OFF command step . If the user is permitted to charge the cloud server may respond by sending a delayed OFF command for that TxID and RxID for a specific time to the pending queue step of OFF commands. The relevant batch of OFF commands may be sent to the Hotspots on the scheduled periodic Gateway request from the cloud server to stop charging step .

When the hotspot gets an OFF command from the cloud server it compares the RxID of the device that is placed on it with the RxID for which the command was sent. If there is a match the Hotspot turns itself off and may additionally send a log message to the cloud server that it executed the OFF command for a particular receiver RxID on a particular hotspot TxID reporting the event to the cloud server step . Where there is no match for example if the device was removed from the Hotspot step and it is now empty or another device is placed upon it the hotspot does not change its status and may send a log message to the cloud server that the OFF command was not executed for RxID TxID due to a no match step . Furthermore the Hotspot may stop charging when it senses that a device was removed therefrom step .

The system provide for a management console software that may provide a manager of a premises with the ability to manage the hotspots that are installed therein. The management console may be accessed through a web browser or an application on a computer laptop tablet and the like.

The management console may allow a manager to e.g. View real time on off status of hotspots View usage statistics and generate reports per user location hotspot time create edit and assign usage policies per location day of week time user.

Administrator level managers may have administrative rights to access all the information and the settings in the system.

MAdmin level managers have access to the general settings for all the locations of a specific premises or group of premises. The MAdmin can create delete edit MAdmin and MUser accounts and assign rights to them.

MUser level managers may have rights to one or more locations for which he can view statuses manage policies and get reports.

In certain embodiments the system may have a flat hierarchy of the MUsers where MUsers cannot be defined as managers of other MUsers and there is no inheritance of rights from one user to another in a hierarchical way. Alternatively the MUsers may be arranged hierarchical structures

Each customer may start with one MAdmin account which may then create other MAdmin and MUser accounts. When an Admin account is created the following may be set Company type of admin full name phone email rights to manage a certain list of locations and the like.

All the activities that MAdmins and MUsers perform in the system may be logged in a system log Date Time user type of activity details .

The management console may allow a MAdmin or MUser to view a schematic diagram of the location of the Hotspots in a premises. The diagram may denote the status of the Hotspots with color or pattern indications. The status may include On Off Note Used Recently faulty and the like. The management console may also be operable to display usage statistics per user Hotspot time in the form of e.g. graphs on screed formatted printable report exportable CSV format and the like. Other possible reports include e.g. charging patterns over time list of Hotspots used and number of usages per each over time list of locations with user charged and or number in visits over time statistics of usage of each type of user plan. For the graphs the time scale may have a slider that enables adjustment of the time scale from data points every 1 minute to data points every one week. It is possible to have a non continuous scale e.g. 1 minutes 15 minutes 1 hour 4 hours 1 day 1 week.

A MUser can set policies for the Store promotion layer of service Add free charging minutes on top of T based on criteria. A user user group that qualify may be allowed to charge their device for free variously for a specified number of minutes at specified locations during specified days of the week at specified time slots. A policy may have a validity duration e.g. valid between Date and date where date

An administrator of the server may have the access to perform one or more of the following actions in the system 

The Administrator Admin may be able to do everything that a MUser can do and may have rights to all customer accounts and all locations.

The Admin may be able to overrule a policy for a specific device by RxID by overriding the base policies for that device. Such devices may be used at installation or at maintenance times to validate the proper operation of a Hotspot. The policy override may be time limited and may revert back to previous default policy when the time is up. The Admin may have access to devices that are designated with always on or never on policies which may be referred to as Golden Receivers .

The administrator may have visibility into the wellbeing of the installed components e.g. alerts for gateways that did not communicate with the server over a specified period of time alerts for Hotspots that did not communicate with the server over a specified period of time and the like.

The provisioning software may provide for user interaction that comprises one or more of the following features 

The provisioning software running on the device may receive the TxID and or the location of the Hotspot. Information regarding the location of the Hotspot may be associated with the TxID. Such location information may be programmed into the Hotspot at e.g. the time of installation and may provide very accurate location information which may be more accurate than what may be provided through other methods such as GPS or antenna triangulation. Where the provisioning software is an application the Hotspot may transmit information regarding itself e.g. TxID location and the like to the device which then transfers the information to the application. The application may further identify the locating using GPS antenna triangulation in door positioning methods and the like.

Further the application may interact with the OS e.g. through the OS s API to use the device s communication capabilities to connect to the server and e.g. request the charging policy for the device in relation to the Hotspot or Hotspot location at the given day time and receive the allowance policy details to charge the device. If communication with the server cannot be established the application may allow the providing of charge based on a predefined offline policy .

The server may be capable of integration with external servers or services. Some integration may be for data enhancements and external validation of rights for users and others may be for managing a certain functional aspect of the system such as User management Billing Advertising and Policies management with external dependencies

Various functionalities may be available through the provisioning software and may also be available in third party applications through application programming interfaces APIs for the server or a client application. The functionalities include using GPS antenna triangulation or in door positioning location information to display a map with nearby public hotspots booking a Hotspot in advance. The booked Hotspot will not charge for other users only for the registered user when he arrives when identified by the unique RxID registering devices checking charging statistics buying accessories charging policies checking real time charging balances for registered devices setting notification methods receiving notifications setting an automatic check in to the Hotspot location setting automatic interactions with social networks e.g. automatic check ins tweets status updates and the like providing store specific promotion updates via e.g. push notifications based on past and current usage of charging services and user s micro location using accumulated information of the usage of the charging service including locations etc. to better target users with promotions ads creating loyalty plans for venues based on usage of the charging services in their premises providing services to users based on information that their social network connections are were at a close proximity and launching a third party application on a user s device based on past or current usage of charging services and user s micro location.

By way of example only a number of usage scenarios of the power provision system are described hereinafter 

According to a first usage scenario a web application may be set to a default time limit of 1 minute or so of time based credit with no free or blocked periods defined. A user may launch a power provisioning software and accesses the power provision screen. A code may be entered into the power provision screen and the charging credit may be updated to the default value of say 1 minute.

The user may enter the power provisioning software screen and tap on an initiation button such as a touch to charge button or the like.

A communication device such a mobile telephone smart phone PDA or the like may be connected to the power provision point. For example a device having an associated inductive power receiver may be placed on an inductive power outlet and power transfer for example charging of the device may begin.

While power is transferred or the device is charged a countdown popup may be displayed optionally along with dynamic promotions.

The web application may be operable to indicate that the power provision point is busy. Optionally where applicable the web application may further display the remaining time until a device will be charged and this may be synchronized with the counter of the power provisioning software on the device.

According to another usage scenario the web application may define an initial blocked period. The user may enter the power provisioning software screen and tap on an initiation button such as a touch to charge button or the like.

The communication device such a mobile telephone smart phone PDA or the like may be connected to the power provision point. For example a device having an associated inductive power receiver may be placed on an inductive power outlet or a conductive charger may be connected to an electric device.

A notification message may be displayed informing the user that charging is blocked. A user may be prompted to add credit to the user account for example by entering a code or supplying payment details. When such payment is made the web application may be unblocked and the time based credit updated to 1 minute say.

Where necessary the device may be reconnected to the power provision point and the user may again enter the power provisioning software screen and tap on a touch to charge button.

While power is transferred or the device is charged a countdown popup may be displayed optionally along with dynamic promotions.

The web application may be operable to indicate that the power provision point is busy. Optionally where applicable the web application may further display the remaining time until a device will be charged and this may be synchronized with the counter of the power provisioning software on the device.

According to still another usage scenario a web application may be set to a longer time limit of say 2 minutes of time based credit. The power provisioning software may include a Battery low scenario which a user may access for example by selecting a more options link on a bottom bar of the application screen.

Accordingly a low battery push notification may be displayed. The user may launch the application with low battery option.

Optionally the user may select a feature to find a charging station. For example the user may be presented with a map indicating the locations of nearby power provision points or charging stations perhaps using a global positioning system to provide current location. The user may further select a particular power provision point on the map and be presented with directions as well as other details such as associated special offers and the like as required.

In other options a power provision application may provide a locator feature using augmented reality to indicate the locations of nearby power provision points upon an overlay superimposed upon an image captured from the devices camera. An example of such a display is shown in .

Additionally or alternatively links may be provided to social media allowing a user to communicate with or access feedback from other users of various power access points and their environments.

Having identified a power provision point the user may return to the home screen perhaps by tapping anywhere on the current screen. The Power provision software may be initiated by selecting an initiation button such as a Touch to charge button or the like.

A communication device such a mobile telephone smart phone PDA or the like may be connected to the power provision point. For example a device having an associated inductive power receiver may be placed on an inductive power outlet and power transfer for example charging of the device may begin.

While power is transferred or the device is charged a countdown popup may be displayed optionally along with dynamic promotions.

The web application may be operable to indicate that the power provision point is busy. Optionally where applicable the web application may further display the remaining time until a device will be charged and this may be synchronized with the counter of the power provisioning software on the device.

In order to better illustrate the possibilities of the power provisioning software show a selection of possible screen shots of a graphical user interface for a touch screen of a mobile device executing the software which may be in the form of a pre installed or downloaded application or a part of the device OS. Referring particularly to a possible screenshot is represented of a home screen of a power provisioning software which may be installed and accessed from a mobile communications device such as a computer smart phone a tablet computer games console or the like.

The home screen icons may direct the user to other screens providing various functionality such as described herein. For example a first icon may direct to a second level Power 2.0 screen such as shown in a second icon may direct a user to a Scan code screen such as shown in a third icon may return a user to the home screen a fourth icon may direct a user to a Caf card screen such as shown in a fifth icon may direct a user to a Credit charging screen a sixth icon may direct a user to a Power access point locator screen such as shown in .

Optionally the code entry selection may be activated to access a keypad via which a user code may be entered. Input may be added on the item itself. Once code is added the charging credit may be updated perhaps by connecting to a remote control server. Alternatively or additionally code entry may be facilitated by a code scanner which may be activated by opening the camera for example.

Once credit is updated on this screen the user may be redirected possibly following a short delay to a Charging screen . Optionally selecting Use charging credit may direct a user to the Charging screen . The Charging screen may be in standby mode until charging is initiated.

In waiting mode an icon or text such as Waiting for power may be displayed to indicate that charging is not initiated. Optionally an animated waiting icon such as a sandclock three dots rotating dots or the like may be displayed.

Upon initiation of charging the screen may move to charging mode. Text may be displayed such as Remaining time for charging . . . alongside an actual count down according to actual state in real time. A promotionally image may be displayed periodically say every 10 seconds or so for example in a loop mode.

Once charging ends the screen may move to charging complete mode as shown in . Optionally the notification may have a close icon such as an X or a selection button for closing the notification and redirect the user to home screen.

In order to better illustrate the possibilities of the web based application for a power provision system show a selection of possible screen shots of a web based graphical user interface running on a web browser.

With particular reference to a possible main screen of a web application for a power provision system is shown. The main screen includes a search bar for locating a power access points and may show a map indicating a selected location. Search filters may be displayed having options to show hide various selections. Each filter may have a an active checkbox. The map may include an interactive map including zoom pan map views for example.

Referring now to a possible floor plan of a web application for a power provision system is shown. Once a store is selected the map may be replaced with a floor plan diagram. The floor plan may display all the power access or charging points as icons on tables of the floor plan for example. Indication of the availability of the power access points may be provided perhaps by coloring the busy access points red and the free access points green for example.

Optionally the charging points on the floor plan may be selected and a callout with more info may be displayed such as indicated in for example. The side panel of the screen may include details of the store such as name and address and promotional information such as the charging policy of the store.

The scope of the disclosed subject matter is defined by the appended claims and includes both combinations and sub combinations of the various features described hereinabove as well as variations and modifications thereof which would occur to persons skilled in the art upon reading the foregoing description.

Technical and scientific terms used herein should have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which the disclosure pertains. Nevertheless it is expected that during the life of a patent maturing from this application many relevant systems and methods will be developed. Accordingly the scope of the terms such as computing unit network display memory server and the like are intended to include all such new technologies a priori.

The terms comprises comprising includes including having and their conjugates mean including but not limited to and indicate that the components listed are included but not generally to the exclusion of other components. Such terms encompass the terms consisting of and consisting essentially of .

The phrase consisting essentially of means that the composition or method may include additional ingredients and or steps but only if the additional ingredients and or steps do not materially alter the basic and novel characteristics of the claimed composition or method.

As used herein the singular form a an and the may include plural references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. For example the term a compound or at least one compound may include a plurality of compounds including mixtures thereof.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration . Any embodiment described as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments or to exclude the incorporation of features from other embodiments.

The word optionally is used herein to mean is provided in some embodiments and not provided in other embodiments . Any particular embodiment of the disclosure may include a plurality of optional features unless such features conflict.

Whenever a numerical range is indicated herein it is meant to include any cited numeral fractional or integral within the indicated range. The phrases ranging ranges between a first indicate number and a second indicate number and ranging ranges from a first indicate number to a second indicate number are used herein interchangeably and are meant to include the first and second indicated numbers and all the fractional and integral numerals therebetween. It should be understood therefore that the description in range format is merely for convenience and brevity and should not be construed as an inflexible limitation on the scope of the disclosure. Accordingly the description of a range should be considered to have specifically disclosed all the possible sub ranges as well as individual numerical values within that range. For example description of a range such as from 1 to 6 should be considered to have specifically disclosed sub ranges such as from 1 to 3 from 1 to 4 from 1 to 5 from 2 to 4 from 2 to 6 from 3 to 6 etc. as well as individual numbers within that range for example 1 2 3 4 5 and 6 as well as non integral intermediate values. This applies regardless of the breadth of the range.

It is appreciated that certain features of the disclosure which are for clarity described in the context of separate embodiments may also be provided in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely various features of the disclosure which are for brevity described in the context of a single embodiment may also be provided separately or in any suitable sub combination or as suitable in any other described embodiment of the disclosure. Certain features described in the context of various embodiments are not to be considered essential features of those embodiments unless the embodiment is inoperative without those elements.

Although the disclosure has been described in conjunction with specific embodiments thereof it is evident that many alternatives modifications and variations will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Accordingly it is intended to embrace all such alternatives modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and broad scope of the appended claims.

All publications patents and patent applications mentioned in this specification are herein incorporated in their entirety by reference into the specification to the same extent as if each individual publication patent or patent application was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated herein by reference. In addition citation or identification of any reference in this application shall not be construed as an admission that such reference is available as prior art to the present disclosure. To the extent that section headings are used they should not be construed as necessarily limiting.

While exemplary embodiments are described above it is not intended that these embodiments describe all possible forms of the invention. Rather the words used in the specification are words of description rather than limitation and it is understood that various changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Additionally the features of various implementing embodiments may be combined to form further embodiments of the invention.

