---

title: Method and apparatus for protecting moderator access for a conference call
abstract: A method for protecting moderator access using a communication device. The method includes: displaying an interface for editing a conference call profile, the conference call profile including conference call scheduling information including one or more addressees for communicating with a conference call server, wherein the conference call scheduling information further includes a moderator access code and a participant access code; generating an indicator for the conference call profile for excluding sending of the moderator access code to invited participants; and storing the conference call profile including the indicator in a memory of the communication device. A communication device can be configured to perform the method.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09503566&OS=09503566&RS=09503566
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 09503566
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20150814
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority from U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 137 966 filed on Dec. 20 2013 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 112 992 which is a divisional application of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 423 149 filed on Mar. 16 2013 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 644 479 which claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 454 315 titled Method for Protecting Moderator Access for a Conference Call filed Mar. 18 2011 all of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

Example embodiments relate to conference call systems and methods for example for protecting moderator access for a conference call.

During a conference call voice or media connections are typically made between two or more communication devices such as telephones or mobile phones.

When scheduling a conventional conference call a user typically is required to configure the conference call manually. For example all conference call information can be entered into specific fields or tags including the time attendees host and conference access number. When a quick meeting needs to be convened there is time overhead required to set up the meeting. In addition the user can be distracted from the substantive content of the meeting in order to facilitate the administrative aspect in coordinating the meeting.

One difficulty with existing conferencing systems is that unauthorized participants can attempt to join a conference call. The participants of a conference call are sometimes loosely defined wherein original invitees can forward invitations and access codes to others who can then participate. With only rudimentary security procedures such as a conference call dial in number and assess code almost anyone from any location can access a conference call which could compromise security.

Other difficulties with existing teleconferencing systems will be apparent to those skilled in the art in view of the detailed description below.

Some example embodiments generally relate to creating and editing conference profiles. The profiles feature can provide meeting organizers the option to save conference information into profiles. When creating meetings using the conference call application the host organizers can readily populate the conference information for the meeting by selecting a profile for that meeting. The necessary details will be automatically be inserted into the meeting invitation.

In some example embodiments the profiles can include an indicator for excluding sending of moderation information such as a moderator access code to invited participants.

In one example embodiment there is provided a method for protecting moderator access using a communication device. The method includes displaying an interface for editing a conference call profile the conference call profile including conference call scheduling information including one or more addressees for communicating with a conference call server wherein the conference call scheduling information further includes a moderator access code and a participant access code generating an indicator for the conference call profile for excluding sending of the moderator access code to invited participants and storing the conference call profile including the indicator in a memory of the communication device.

In another example embodiment there is provided a non transitory computer readable medium having recorded thereon statements and instructions for execution by one or more devices for protecting moderator access for a conference call the statements and instructions comprising code means for performing the method.

In yet another example embodiment there is provided a communication device including a controller a communications subsystem a memory and a display for displaying an interface for editing a conference call profile the conference call profile including conference call scheduling information including one or more addressees for communicating with a conference call server wherein the conference call scheduling information further includes a moderator access code and a participant access code. The controller is configured for generating an indicator for the conference call profile for excluding sending of the moderator access code to invited participants and storing the conference call profile including the indicator in the memory.

In yet another example embodiment there is provided a method for creating a conference call profile from a communication device wherein the communication includes a memory for storing an event record. The method includes identifying from the event record one or more addressees for communicating with a conference call server generating a conference call profile having one or more address fields and populating the address fields with the addresses and storing the conference call profile in the memory.

Example embodiments relate to the control and management of conference call communications. Although reference is made to calls and talk in the description of example embodiments below it will be appreciated that some of the described systems and methods can be applicable to session based communications in general and not limited to voice calls. Reference to calls can for example include shared data e.g. presentation content as well as media sessions which can for example include video and or audio. The various communications can include both synchronous and asynchronous communications to implement such calls .

Reference is now made to which shows in block diagram form an example system generally designated for the control and management of communications. The system includes an enterprise or business system which in many embodiments includes a local area network LAN . In the description below the enterprise or business system can be referred to as an enterprise network . It will be appreciated that the enterprise network can include more than one network and can be located in multiple geographic areas in some embodiments.

The enterprise network can be operatively connected often through a firewall to a wide area network WAN such as the Internet. The enterprise network can also be operatively connected to a public switched telephone network PSTN via direct inward dialing DID trunks or primary rate interface PRI trunks.

The enterprise network can also communicate with a public land mobile network PLMN which can also be referred to as a wireless wide area network WWAN or in some cases a cellular network. The operative connection with the PLMN can be made via a relay as understood in the art.

The enterprise network can also provide a wireless local area network WLAN featuring wireless access points. Other WLANs can exist outside the enterprise network . For example WLAN can be operatively connected to WAN .

The system can include a number of enterprise associated mobile devices only one shown . The mobile devices can include devices equipped with communications modules for cellular communication through the PLMN mobile devices equipped for Wi Fi communications over one of the WLANs or dual mode devices capable of both cellular and data communications. WLANs can be configured in accordance with one of the IEEE 802.11 specifications.

It will be understood by a person with ordinary skill in the art that the mobile devices include one or more radio transceivers and associated processing hardware and software to enable wireless communications with the PLMN and or one of the WLANs . In various embodiments the PLMN and mobile devices can be configured to operate in compliance with any one or more of a number of wireless protocols including GSM GPRS CDMA EDGE UMTS EvDO HSPA 3GPP or a variety of others. It will be appreciated that the mobile device can roam within the PLMN and across PLMNs in known manner as the user moves. In some instances the dual mode mobile devices and or the enterprise network are configured to facilitate roaming between the PLMN and a WLAN and are thus capable of seamlessly transferring sessions such as voice calls from an operative connection with the cellular interface of the dual mode device to the WLAN interface of the dual mode device and vice versa.

The mobile devices can consist of various types of communication devices. Such mobile devices can include Class A devices which are able to function continuously as dual mode devices capable of both media and data communications. Mobile devices can also include non Class A devices which can function as dual mode devices for initialization or prior to an operative connection with the enterprise communications platform but can lose data functionality once a media session e.g. voice call is established. The enterprise network can also include additional client devices which are voice only or media only devices which can be digital or analog for communication with the PSTN or PLMN and which need not have data capabilities herein referred to as voice only or media only devices . In other embodiments the mobile devices can include any suitable client device configured with the communications functionality described herein and can for example include computer devices relays proxies gateways and any appropriate User Agents as defined in SIP .

The enterprise network typically includes a number of networked servers computers and other devices. For example the enterprise network can operatively connect one or more desktop or laptop computers one shown . The operative connection can be wired or wireless in some embodiments. The enterprise network can also operatively connect to one or more digital telephone sets one shown .

The enterprise network can include one or more mail servers such as mail server for coordinating the transmission storage and receipt of electronic messages for client devices operating within the enterprise network . Typical mail servers include the Microsoft Exchange Server and the IBM Lotus Domino server. Each user within the enterprise typically has at least one user account within the enterprise network . Associated with each user account is message address information such as an e mail address. Messages addressed to a user message address are stored on the enterprise network in the mail server . The messages can be retrieved by the user using a messaging application such as an e mail client application. The messaging application can be operating on a user s computer operatively connected to the enterprise network within the enterprise. In some embodiments the user can be permitted to access stored messages using a remote computer for example at another location via the WAN using a VPN connection. Using the messaging application the user can also compose and send messages addressed to others within or outside the enterprise network . The messaging application causes the mail server to send a composed message to the addressee often via the WAN .

The relay serves to route messages received over the PLMN from the mobile device to the corresponding enterprise network . The relay also pushes messages from the enterprise network to the mobile device via the PLMN .

The enterprise network also includes an enterprise server . Generally the enterprise server is configured to collectively serve the needs of the enterprise network for example to provide and or synchronize messaging contacts and calendaring information between servers desktop workstations and mobile devices . Together with the relay the enterprise server functions to redirect or relay incoming e mail messages addressed to a user s e mail address within the enterprise network to the user s mobile device and to relay incoming e mail messages composed and sent via the mobile device out to the intended recipients within the WAN or elsewhere. The enterprise server and relay together facilitate push e mail service for the mobile device enabling the user to send and receive e mail messages using the mobile device as though the user were operatively connected to an e mail client within the enterprise network using the user s enterprise related e mail address for example on computer .

As is typical in many enterprises the enterprise network includes a Private Branch eXchange although in various embodiments the PBX can be a standard PBX or an IP PBX for simplicity the description below uses the term PBX to refer to both having an operative connection with the PSTN for routing incoming and outgoing voice calls for the enterprise. The PBX is operatively connected to the PSTN via DID trunks or PRI trunks for example. The PBX can use ISDN signaling protocols for setting up and tearing down circuit switched connections through the PSTN and related signaling and communications. In some embodiments the PBX can be operatively connected to one or more conventional analog telephones . The PBX is also operatively connected to the enterprise network and through it to telephone terminal devices such as digital telephone sets softphones operating on computers etc. Within the enterprise each individual can have an associated extension number sometimes referred to as a PNP private numbering plan or direct dial phone number. Calls outgoing from the PBX to the PSTN or incoming from the PSTN to the PBX are typically circuit switched calls. Within the enterprise e.g. between the PBX and terminal devices voice calls are often packet switched calls for example Voice over IP VoIP calls.

The enterprise network can further include a Service Management Platform SMP for performing some aspects of messaging or session control like call control and advanced call processing features. The SMP can in some cases also perform some media handling. Collectively the SMP and PBX can be referred to as the enterprise communications platform generally designated . It will be appreciated that the enterprise communications platform and in particular the SMP is implemented on one or more servers having suitable communications interfaces for operatively connecting to and communicating with the PBX and or DID PRI trunks. Although the SMP can be implemented on a stand alone server it will be appreciated that it can be implemented into an existing control agent server as a logical software component. As will be described below the SMP can be implemented as a multi layer platform.

The enterprise communications platform implements the switching to operatively connect session legs and can provide the conversion between for example a circuit switched call and a VoIP call or to operatively connect legs of other media sessions. In some embodiments in the context of voice calls the enterprise communications platform provides a number of additional functions including automated attendant interactive voice response IVR call forwarding voice mail etc. It can also implement certain usage restrictions on enterprise users such as blocking international calls or 1 900 calls. In many embodiments Session Initiation Protocol SIP can be used to set up manage and terminate media sessions for voice calls. Other protocols can also be employed by the enterprise communications platform for example Web Services Computer Telephony Integration CTI protocol Session Initiation Protocol for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions SIMPLE and various custom Application Programming Interfaces APIs as will be described in greater detail below.

One of the functions of the enterprise communications platform is to extend the features of enterprise telephony to the mobile devices . For example the enterprise communications platform can allow the mobile device to perform functions akin to those normally available on a standard office telephone such as the digital telephone set or analog telephone set . Example features can include direct extension dialing enterprise voice mail conferencing call transfer call park etc.

Reference is now made to which show example embodiments of the enterprise communications system . illustrates an embodiment intended for use in a circuit switched TDM context. The PBX is coupled to the SMP via PRI operative connection or other suitable digital trunk. In some embodiments the PRI operative connection can include a first PRI operative connection a second PRI operative connection and a channel service unit CSU wherein the CSU is a mechanism for operatively connecting computing devices to digital mediums in a manner that allows for the retiming and regeneration of incoming signals. It will be appreciated that there can be additional or alternative operative connections between the PBX and the SMP .

In this embodiment the SMP assumes control over both call processing and the media itself. This architecture can be referred to as First Party Call Control . Many of the media handling functions normally implemented by the PBX are handled by the SMP in this architecture. Incoming calls addressed to any extension or direct dial number within the enterprise for example are always first routed to the SMP . Thereafter a call leg is established from the SMP to the called party within the enterprise and the two legs are bridged. Accordingly the SMP includes a digital trunk interface and a digital signal processing DSP conferencing bridge . The DSP conferencing bridge performs the bridging of calls for implementation of various call features such as conferencing call transfer etc. The digital trunk interface can be implemented as a plurality of telephonic cards e.g. Intel Dialogic cards interoperatively connected by a bus and operating under the control of a processor. The digital trunk interface can also be partly implemented using a processor module such as for example a Host Media Processing HMP processor.

The SMP can include various scripts for managing call processing. The scripts are implemented as software modules routines functions etc. stored in non volatile memory and executed by the processor of the SMP . The scripts can implement call flow logic business logic user preferences call service processes and various feature applications.

The call control server is coupled to the PBX for example through the LAN enabling packet based communications and more specifically IP based communications. In one embodiment communications between the PBX and the call control server are carried out in accordance with SIP. In other words the call control server uses SIP based communications to manage the set up tear down and control of media handled by the PBX . In one example embodiment the call control server can employ a communications protocol conforming to the ECMA 269 or ECMA 323 standards for Computer Supported Telecommunications Applications CSTA .

The SIP server interacts with the media server using SIP based media handling commands. For example the SIP server and media server can communicate using Media Server Markup Language MSML as defined in IETF document Saleem A. Media Server Markup Language Internet Draft draft saleem msml 07 Aug. 7 2008. The media server can be configured to perform Host Media Processing HMP .

Other architectures or configurations for the enterprise communications system will be appreciated by those ordinarily skilled in the art. For example in example embodiments the service management platform can be separate from the PBX or the service management platform can include a cloud based system.

Reference is now made to which shows another embodiment of the enterprise communications system with a Third Party Call Control architecture. In this embodiment the SMP is a multi layer platform that includes a protocol layer a services layer and an application layer . The protocol layer includes a plurality of interface protocols configured for enabling operation of corresponding applications in the application layer . The services layer includes a plurality of services that can be leveraged by the interface protocols to create richer applications. Finally the application layer includes a plurality of applications that are exposed out to the communication devices and that leverage corresponding ones of the services and interface protocols for enabling the applications.

Specifically the protocol layer preferably includes protocols which allow media to be controlled separate from data. For example the protocol layer can include among other things a Session Initiation Protocol or SIP a Web Services protocol an Application Programming Interface or API a Computer Telephony Integration protocol or CTI and a Session Initiation Protocol for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions or SIMPLE protocol . It is contemplated that the interface protocols are plug ins that can interface directly with corresponding servers in the enterprise network which will be further described below.

Although SIP can be utilized it is appreciated that the system can operate using the above disclosed or additional protocols. As known by those of ordinary skill in the art SIP is the IETF Internet Engineering Task Force standard for multimedia session management and more specifically is an application layer control protocol for establishing maintaining modifying and terminating multimedia sessions between two or more endpoints. As further known by those of ordinary skill in the art the SIP protocol includes two interfaces for signaling SIP Trunk hereinafter referred to as SIP T and SIP Line hereinafter referred to as SIP L . Specifically the SIP T interface is utilized when the endpoint is a non specific entity or not registered i.e. when communicating between two network entities . In contrast the SIP L interface is utilized when the endpoint is registered i.e. when dialing to a specific extension . SIP is defined in J. Rosenberg et al. RFC 3261 Session Initiation Protocol June 2002 the contents of which are herein incorporated by reference.

The SMP also includes a plurality of enablers among other things a VoIP enabler a Fixed Mobile Convergence or FMC enabler a conference services enabler a presence enabler and an Instant Messaging or IM enabler . Each of the enablers are used by corresponding services in the services layer that combine one or more of the enablers. Each of the applications in the application layer is then combined with one or more of the services to perform the desired application. For example a phone call service can use the VoIP or PBX enabler and an emergency response application can use the phone call service an Instant Messenger service a video call service and email service and or a conference service.

The application layer can include a conference services application that together with the conference services enabler enables multiple communication devices including desk telephones and personal computers to participate in a conference call through use of a centralized conference server . As seen in the conference server is provided in the enterprise network and is in communication with the conference services enabler preferably through the SIP protocol although it is recognized that additional protocols that control media separate from data can be appropriate such as the Web Services protocol or the CTI protocol . As will be described in further detail below the conference call server is configured for directing media and data streams to and from one or more communication devices i.e. mobile devices telephones and computers .

Example conference call systems and methods in accordance with example embodiments will now be described referring now to which shows the system when used or configured as a conference call system. As shown the enterprise communications platform includes the conference server for providing conference call services for a number of client devices such as mobile devices illustrated as one designated host device and one or more participant devices . The mobile devices can collectively form a conference call group. The host device is generally the mobile device or associated user who schedules and hosts a conference call session and can for example be permitted to perform such hosting functions as roll call mute all broadcast only conference lock etc. In some example embodiments the conference call session cannot commence without the presence of the host device

The enterprise communications platform and the associated conference server can be used for generally executing conference call functions. As described above in example embodiments the enterprise communications platform can include or be coupled to the media server wherein the enterprise communications platform controls the media handling and media sessions of the media server .

Referring still to in order to implement some of the conference call functions described herein the enterprise communications platform can communicate with the mobile devices by way of media sessions and or control sessions. Specifically as shown in the mobile devices communicates via media sessions shown as solid lines and control sessions shown as dashed lines to distinguish from the media sessions . For example the designated host device communicates via media session and control session . Participant device communicates via media session and control session . Participant device communicates via media session and control session . In some embodiments as shown the participant device can merely communicate via media session over the PLMN or PSTN only without an associated control session .

In some example embodiments the media sessions can be facilitated by the enterprise communications platform by way of Real time Transport Protocol RTP media sessions and can include voice calls video calls circuit switched calls or VoIP calls. In order to generate or establish a conference call session the enterprise communications platform operatively connects or links at least some of the call legs of each media session . The particular methods and processes for operatively connecting of media sessions into a conference call session would be understood by those skilled in the art which can for example be implemented by media shuffling or SDP Session Description Protocol media shuffling etc.

In some example embodiments a data connection e.g. the same data connection as used by the control sessions can be further used to provide additional data sharing between mobile devices . For example during a conference call the host mobile device can provide or transfer a data file to the remaining mobile devices . Data sharing can also include Web Services or sharing of presentation content.

In some example embodiments during a conference call session the enterprise communications platform can receive Global Positioning System GPS information from at least some of the participant devices and can send the received GPS information to the devices to provide location based positioning services between the devices .

Reference is now made to which illustrates in detail a mobile device in which example embodiments can be applied. The mobile device is a two way communication device having data and voice communication capabilities and the capability to communicate with other computer systems for example via the Internet. Depending on the functionality provided by the mobile device in various embodiments the mobile device can be a handheld device a multiple mode communication device configured for both data and voice communication a smartphone a mobile telephone or a PDA personal digital assistant enabled for wireless communication.

The mobile device includes a rigid case not shown housing the components of the mobile device . The internal components of the mobile device can for example be constructed on a printed circuit board PCB . The description of the mobile device herein mentions a number of specific components and subsystems. Although these components and subsystems can be realized as discrete elements the functions of the components and subsystems can also be realized by integrating combining or packaging one or more elements in any suitable fashion. The mobile device includes a controller comprising at least one processor such as a microprocessor which controls the overall operation of the mobile device . The processor interacts with device subsystems such as a wireless communication subsystem for exchanging radio frequency signals with the wireless network e.g. WAN and or PLMN to perform communication functions. The processor interacts with additional device subsystems including a display such as a liquid crystal display LCD screen or any other appropriate display input devices such as a keyboard and control buttons persistent memory random access memory RAM read only memory ROM auxiliary input output I O subsystems data port such as a conventional serial data port or a Universal Serial Bus USB data port speaker microphone short range communication subsystem which can employ any appropriate a wireless e.g. RF optical or other short range communications technology and other device subsystems generally designated as . Some of the subsystems shown in perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems can provide resident or on device functions.

Display can be realized as a touch screen display in some embodiments. The touch screen display can be constructed using a touch sensitive input surface operatively connected to an electronic controller and which overlays the visible element of display . The touch sensitive overlay and the electronic controller provide a touch sensitive input device and the processor interacts with the touch sensitive overlay via the electronic controller.

The wireless communication subsystem includes one or more communication systems for communicating with wireless WAN base stations and wireless LAN access points within the wireless network. The particular design of the wireless communication subsystem depends on the wireless network in which mobile device is intended to operate. The mobile device can send and receive communication signals over the wireless network after the required network registration or activation procedures have been completed.

The processor operates under stored program control and executes software modules stored in memory such as persistent memory or ROM . The processor can execute code means or instructions. ROM can contain data program instructions or both. Persistent memory can contain data program instructions or both in some embodiments is rewritable under control of processor and can be realized using any appropriate persistent memory technology including EEPROM EAROM FLASH and the like. As illustrated in the software modules comprise operating system software and software applications .

Software modules or parts thereof can be temporarily loaded into volatile memory such as the RAM . The RAM is used for storing runtime data variables and other types of data or information as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Although specific functions are described for various types of memory this is merely one example and those skilled in the art will appreciate that a different assignment of functions to types of memory could also be used.

The software applications can further include a range of applications including for example an e mail messaging application address book calendar application notepad application Internet browser application voice communication i.e. telephony application mapping application or a media player application or any combination thereof. Each of the software applications can include layout information defining the placement of particular fields and graphic elements e.g. text fields input fields icons etc. in the user interface i.e. the display according to the application.

The modules can further include a Global Positioning System GPS module or application which is configured for detection of a geographical position of the device for example by correlating existing satellites. The GPS module can also receive from the enterprise communications platform the geographical positions of the other devices .

In some embodiments the auxiliary input output I O subsystems can comprise an external communication link or interface for example an Ethernet connection. The auxiliary I O subsystems can further comprise one or more input devices including a pointing or navigational tool such as a clickable trackball or scroll wheel or thumbwheel or one or more output devices including a mechanical transducer such as a vibrator for providing vibratory notifications in response to various events on the mobile device e.g. receipt of an electronic message or incoming phone call or for other purposes such as haptic feedback touch feedback .

In some embodiments the mobile device also includes one or more removable memory modules typically comprising FLASH memory and one or more memory module interfaces . Among possible functions of the removable memory module is to store information used to identify or authenticate a user or the user s account to wireless network e.g. WAN and or PLMN . For example in conjunction with certain types of wireless networks including GSM and successor networks the removable memory module is referred to as a Subscriber Identity Module or SIM. The memory module is inserted in or operatively connected to the memory module interface of the mobile device in order to operate in conjunction with the wireless network.

The mobile device stores data in a persistent memory . In various embodiments the data includes service data comprising information required by the mobile device to establish and maintain communication with the wireless network e.g. WAN and or PLMN . The data can also include for example scheduling and connection information for operatively connecting to a scheduled conference call.

The mobile device also includes a battery which furnishes energy for operating the mobile device . The battery can be coupled to the electrical circuitry of mobile device through a battery interface which can manage such functions as charging the battery from an external power source not shown and the distribution of energy to various loads within or operatively connected to the mobile device . Short range communication subsystem is an additional optional component which provides for communication between the mobile device and different systems or devices which need not necessarily be similar devices. For example the short range communication subsystem can include an infrared device and associated circuits and components or a wireless bus protocol compliant communication mechanism such as a BLUETOOTH communication module to provide for communication with similarly enabled systems and devices.

A predetermined set of applications that control basic device operations including data and possibly voice communication applications will normally be installed on the mobile device during or after manufacture. Additional applications and or upgrades to the operating system software or software applications can also be loaded onto the mobile device through the wireless network e.g. WAN and or PLMN the auxiliary I O subsystem the data port the short range communication subsystem or other suitable subsystem such as . The downloaded programs or code modules can be permanently installed for example written into the program memory e.g. the persistent memory or written into and executed from the RAM for execution by the processor at runtime.

The mobile device can provide three principal modes of communication a data communication mode an optional voice communication mode and an optional video communication mode. In the data communication mode a received data signal such as a text message an e mail message Web page download or an image file will be processed by the wireless communication subsystem and input to the processor for further processing. For example a downloaded Web page can be further processed by a browser application or an e mail message can be processed by an e mail message messaging application and output to the display . A user of the mobile device can also compose data items such as e mail messages for example using the input devices in conjunction with the display . These composed items can be transmitted through the wireless communication subsystem over the wireless network e.g. WAN and or PLMN . In the voice communication mode the mobile device provides telephony functions and operates as a typical cellular phone. In the video communication mode the mobile device provides transcribing functions during a video conferencing session including at least one camera.

Reference is now made to which shows a conference profile interface in accordance with a conference profiles feature in accordance with some example embodiments. This can be implemented by a conference call application which can be an add on plug in or app for a calendar application. Generally in some example embodiments the interface can be used for creating and editing conference profiles. As shown in the title bar of a New Audio Conference Profile can be created and stored in memory.

The profiles feature can provide meeting organizers the option to save conference information into profiles. When creating meetings using the conference call application the host organizers can readily populate the conference information for the meeting by selecting a profile for that meeting. All or some of the conference call information can be automatically inserted into the meeting invitation. In the presently described embodiment the profile includes an indicator to optionally exclude sending moderator information such as the moderator access code to some or all of the invited participants.

Referring still to the interface can be used for editing conference call information of the conference call profile. As shown the fields include Profile Name Description Conference Number Moderator Access Code and Participant Access Code . These fields can be edited by the user through the interface .

The interface also includes a checkbox for selecting whether the moderator access code is to be shared with attendees. The checkbox when deselected is used as an indicator or tag which is stored in memory of the device . For example the indicator can be toggled as on or off. In other example embodiments the moderator access code is masked by default unless unchecked by the user. In other embodiments selection of a checkbox with suitable wording is used as the indicator to indicate hiding or masking the moderator access code . In some example embodiments the indicator is automatically generated by the host device . In some other example embodiments other moderator information such as the geographic location of the moderator are masked or excluded.

Some example embodiments can support multiple addresses such as multiple phone numbers and or address links. For example each of the multiple addresses can terminate onto the enterprise communications platform . In some example embodiments conference call application can support a plurality of addresses for the Contact Number field which are used to contact the enterprise communications platform . In some example embodiments once the first Conference Number address field US Toll Free field in this example is populated another Conference Number field is displayed for editing. The particular label for the US Toll Free can be changed to other types of operative connections by selecting a menu .

Thus reference is now made to which shows the interface in a further mode of operation. As shown in the interface includes additional Contact Number fields such as Internal and Other as shown. For example once the US Toll Free field is populated the next address field appears in this example Internal . The default type of operative connection can be US Toll Free thus in some embodiments the particular type of operative connection can be relabeled from US Toll Free to Internal using a menu . Once Internal is filled the next address field appears in this example labeled as Other . Once the Other is filled a new default field appears shown again as a default US Toll Free .

Note that in some example embodiments the conference profile can also support more than one participant access code not shown .

Reference is now briefly made to which shows a reminder interface which is displayed at a time of a conference call session or a specified time beforehand. In some example embodiments the conference call application can include a join now feature. In some example embodiments the join now feature includes a default join option shown as a Join Now button for establishing the scheduled conference call session using a default address. Once the time of that meeting arrives or a predetermined time beforehand the Join Now button can be displayed on the device on a popup reminder interface . In example embodiments the automatic discovery feature is used to determine whether a particular address is to be associated with the join now feature. When this is performed the selection of the Join Now button would result in the device automatically operatively connecting to the enterprise communications platform using the identified address. The address can be a phone number and conference access code or an address link such as an Internet address.

Referring again to in some example embodiments the Join Now button can be specifically assigned to a specific number or address at this time to be used as the default join option for the particular profile. The host device can store a tag represented by checkmark which represent the particular phone number US Toll Free in this example which is the default phone number assigned to the join now option e.g. join now button shown in . The particular tag or checkmark can be edited or changed to one of the other Conference Number fields through the interface .

Reference is now made to which shows an example user interface displayed on the display for scheduling a conference call in accordance with an example embodiment. In the example embodiment shown the user interface is for example implemented by a conference call application as a stand alone or in combination with other applications resident on the host device which can be an add on plug in or app for a calendar application. The user interface can form part of a conference call session scheduling process.

Still referring to the user interface can be edited to schedule a conference call session having a subject and which is to occur at a scheduled time and date. For example the time and date of the schedule conference call session can be stored within the conference call application or a calendar application. For example the scheduled conference call has a subject field of PM PO UX Synch. and has a scheduled date field of May 8 2009 at 3 30 PM 4 00 PM . The user interface can be manually triggered by launching and subsequently operating the conference call application.

As shown in the user interface also includes an options menu to perform functions such as editing the existing scheduled conference call scheduling new conference calls and inviting new participants. During the conference call scheduling process the conference call scheduling information is sent from the host device to the enterprise communications platform which stores the information in a memory. In some example embodiments the host mobile device sends an invitation message directly or indirectly to the recipient invitee client devices . In some example embodiments the host mobile device receives a response to the invitation message directly or indirectly from the invitee client devices . The host mobile device can update the enterprise communications platform in such example embodiments.

At the time of the scheduled conference call or a specified time beforehand the enterprise communications platform can contact each of the devices to join the media sessions together. In example embodiments the devices can also dial or link into the enterprise communications platform using dialing or address link information received during scheduling.

As shown in the user interface includes a title bar a status icon an options menu and participant icons each or individually which display the status of each participant for the conference call. The participant icons can for example be a photo or avatar of the individual user. A cursor is also shown for indicating which item s on the user interface are to be selected e.g. controllable by a user input device such as a touchscreen touch scrollball or mouse . The status icon displays the present status of the conference call for example Scheduled CC Conference Call as shown.

Referring now to the participant icons in the example shown the user interface is displayed on the host device indicated as You Host as shown in icon . The participant icon associated with John is indicated as Declined . The participant icon associated with Sally is indicated as Tentative . The participant icon associated with Kevin is indicated as Accepted. Contact information such as e mail address or phone number for the participants can be pre stored in association with the participant names or can be manually entered as appropriate . The status of each participant icon can also be shown for example as Accepted Tentative or Declined.

As shown in in some example embodiments the host device can also select a menu to designate the scheduled conference call as a closed conference call. In a closed call only the specified or eligible participant devices designated by the host device can join the call. Additionally for example only a specified number of participants can join the call. In some example embodiments in a closed call further authentication of those participant devices can be performed when attempting to access the scheduled conference call. As shown the host device also has the option to use the menu to set the scheduled conference call as an open conference call wherein any participant device designated as eligible or not can join.

As shown the Connection fields include various addresses for operatively connecting to the enterprise communications platform . In some example embodiments the Connection fields can be populated from a profile with one or more phone numbers and moderator or participant access codes for operatively connecting to the enterprise communications platform . In the example shown the phone numbers shown are USA Toll Free Internal extension and Other . Additional addresses can also be populated within the Connection fields such as an Internet Intranet or SIP address link not shown . Some of the information in the Connection fields graphical user interface can be auto populated with address information retrieved from a conference profile stored in memory. The moderator access code and the participant access code can also be contained in the Connection fields .

Reference is now made to which shows an interface in accordance with an example embodiment. In some example embodiments the interface is displayed as a consequence of selection of the options menu or a sub menu thereof from .

As illustrated in the interface the saved conference profile can be accessed to populate at least some of the conference call scheduling fields. For example a desired profile can be selected from a Conference Profile option or Conference Profile drop down menu . Once selected at least some of the address fields and the access codes can be automatically populated. As shown at least some of the US Toll Free Internal Other moderator access code and participant access code are automatically retrieved and copied into respective fields. These fields can be further edited by the user through the interface . Accordingly the profile can be used as a starting point for scheduling a conference call in some example embodiments.

In some example embodiments the host device can also store a tag represented by checkmark which represent the particular phone number US Toll Free in this example which is the default phone number assigned to the join now option e.g. join now button shown in . Through the interface the user can edit or select which address or phone number is to be used for the join now option.

Thus reference is made to which illustrate how the interface can be used to select a different phone number for example Internal as the default phone number assigned to the join now option. As shown in a drop down menu for Internal is selected and the Use for Join Now option can be selected. As shown in the tag represented by checkmark is now assigned to the Internal phone number.

In further example embodiments a tag is saved or flagged within the Connection fields shown in for example using an XML tag or other indicator.

Referring again to as indicated above an identifier for the particular profile can be saved such that the host device can send an invitation message for the conference call excluding the moderator access code . For the following example it is presumed that an identifier for excluding sending of the moderator access code to invited participants is saved for this particular profile and session. Thus the host device sends an invitation message to an invited participant devices in relation to the scheduled conference call wherein the message includes the address information and the participant access code but excludes the moderator access code . The identifier for this exclusion is checked and verified prior to sending.

Accordingly reference is now made to which shows a user interface for displaying a received invitation message on a non host participant device . The device first receives the invitation message from another communication device such as host device with respect to a scheduled conference call. As shown the message as displayed can include a number of fields which relate to conference call scheduling information. The fields include Subject Start time End time Recurrence Host Organizer and Connection . The Connection can include sub fields containing a plurality of connection addresses for operatively connecting to the enterprise communications platform such as web information or audio dialing information not shown and participant access code for accessing the conference call. The moderator access code is not present as it was not received by the device . In some example embodiments the example user interface can be displayed using a calendar application or a conference calling add on plug in or app as a stand alone or in combination with other applications. The user interface can also form part of the conference call session scheduling process.

In some example embodiments the invitation message can be received as an e mail message designating the participant s e mail address but can also be in other forms such as short message service SMS SIP message instant messaging or calendar invite. The message can be received directly or indirectly from a host device

As shown on the interface a number of response options can be selected in order to respond to the invitation message . As shown the response options include Accept Decline Tentative or Forward . Upon selection of one or more of the response options a communication containing the response is sent to the host device . In further example embodiments selection of the Accept option can result in the details of the invitation message being stored as a calendar event record in a calendar application of the device . The Forward option can be used to forward the invitation message to a new participant client device.

Reference is now made to which shows an example interface for editing the received invitation message. As shown in the interface the moderator access code or field is absent as no moderator access code was received from the host device . The participant access code is displayed and stored and can be used by the device to access the conference call when contacting the enterprise communications platform .

Through the interface invited users can select from a list which phone number or address they would like to use for the join now button shown in . At the time of the scheduled conference call or a specified time beforehand the devices can display the reminder interface including the join now button shown in to dial or link into the enterprise communications platform .

In some example embodiments the interface can now be used by the non host participant device to save the particular profile either automatically or manually. This profile can be saved for future use and retrieval of the fields for example the particular address and participant access code information. For example the user can schedule a future conference call with the same address and participant access code information.

Referring again to the interface of if web information is received an address link not shown can be selected as the default join option for joining the conference call session. If the conference call is a closed call the enterprise communications platform can then authenticate the device for example by authenticating an identifier of the device in one embodiment using a particular persistent device identifier . Upon authentication a conference call session can be established between the device and the enterprise communications platform which can include a media session shown in .

As can be appreciated in some example embodiments the address link can identify the enterprise communications platform as well as the scheduled conference call session and or the participant identifier and can include a Uniform Resource Locator URL a Uniform Resource Identifier URI or other suitable address.

Reference is now made to which shows an example flow diagram of a method for protecting moderator access in accordance with an example embodiment. At step an interface is displayed for the interface can be used for receiving user input for creating a new conference call profile or editing an existing conference call profile. The user can edit conference call scheduling information such as editing one or more addressees for communicating with a conference call server. The user can also edit a moderator access code and a participant access code. At step the device can generate an indicator for the conference call profile for excluding sending of moderator information such as the moderator access code to invited participants. This can be based on user input for example by selecting or deselecting a checkbox. At step the conference call profile is stored in memory along with the indicator.

The user can then wish to create or schedule a new conference call. Thus at step the device displays a conference call scheduling interface for scheduling a conference call. At step the device retrieves the conference call profile from the memory. This can be based on the user selecting a desired conference call profile. At step the device populates the conference call scheduling interface with at least some of the stored profile. The user can further edit the scheduled conference call through the conference call scheduling interface. At step a send instruction is received for example by user input through the conference call scheduling interface. At step the device verifies whether the indicator states that the moderator access code is to be excluded. At step the device accordingly sends an invitation message to the invited participants in relation to the scheduled conference call. The invitation message includes the participant access code and excludes the moderator access code.

In some example embodiments at least some of the method can be performed by a host device or a non host participant device depending on the particular application. For example referring again to step the interface for editing the profile can be populated by the device at least partially based upon an existing conference call event record such as one that was previously created received or sent by the device. This allows an existing record to be the basis or starting point for a new profile.

It can be appreciated that in some example embodiments the moderator access code need not be limited to a dialed passcode but can be a computer based password or key encryption or signature when accessing the address link.

It can be appreciation that some example embodiments can be used to exclude or mask other moderator information such as the moderator s present or anticipated location.

It can be appreciated that the specific words as shown in the various user interfaces are intended to be illustrative only. For example any suitable words or phrases can be used and would not be limited to the English language. For example any number of multi lingual variations in different languages can be displayed or output from the device.

Variations of the above example systems and methods can be used. While some of the above examples have been described as occurring in a particular order it will be appreciated to persons skilled in the art that some of the messages or steps or processes can be performed in a different order provided that the result of the changed order of any given step will not prevent or impair the occurrence of subsequent steps. Furthermore some of the messages or steps described above can be removed or combined in other embodiments and some of the messages or steps described above can be separated into a number of sub messages or sub steps in other embodiments. Even further some or all of the steps of the conversations can be repeated as necessary. Elements described as methods or steps similarly apply to systems or subcomponents and vice versa. Reference to such words as sending or receiving could be interchanged depending on the perspective of the particular device.

Variations can be made to some example embodiments which can include combinations and sub combinations of any of the above. The various embodiments presented above are merely examples and are in no way meant to limit the scope of this disclosure. Variations of the innovations described herein will be apparent to persons of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of the present disclosure such variations being within the intended scope of the present disclosure. In particular features from one or more of the above described embodiments can be selected to create alternative embodiments comprised of a sub combination of features which might not have been explicitly described above. In addition features from one or more of the above described embodiments can be selected and combined to create alternative embodiments comprised of a combination of features which might not have been explicitly described above. Features suitable for such combinations and sub combinations would be readily apparent to persons skilled in the art upon review of the present disclosure as a whole. The subject matter described herein intends to cover and embrace all suitable changes in technology.

