---

title: Micro cloud image uploading
abstract: A method and system for uploading an image is provided. The method includes registering an application vendor with an account with respect to a computing system. A credentials file and an uploading software application are transmitted to the application vendor and a frozen image of a micro-cloud application running on an origin compute node associated with an application owner is compressed resulting in a compressed micro-cloud application. The credentials file is read and object store access information comprising an object store path and an object store authentication key is retrieved. The compressed frozen image of the micro-cloud application is uploaded and an entitlement package comprising the compressed frozen image of the micro-cloud application and an encrypted version of the object store access information is generated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09521215&OS=09521215&RS=09521215
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09521215
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150626
---
The present invention relates generally to a method for uploading a micro cloud computing image to a cloud object store and in particular to a method and associated system for creating an entitlement package that is cryptographically bound to the micro cloud computing image within the cloud object store.

Accessing cloud based systems may require complex multi tier environments for eliminating fraud issues. Enabling complex multi tier environments may include a complicated process that may be time consuming and require a large amount of resources. A typical cloud based system may not include the ability to execute at a multi national level. Accordingly there exists a need in the art to overcome at least some of the deficiencies and limitations described herein above.

A first aspect of the invention provides an image uploading method comprising registering by one or more computer processors of a computing system based on a specified business agreement between an application vendor and an administrator of the computing system the application vendor with an account with respect to the computing system transmitting by at least one of the one or more computer processors to the application vendor in response to the registering a credentials file and an uploading software application executing by at least one of the one or more computer processors the uploading software application compressing by at least one of the one or more computer processors a frozen image of a micro cloud application running on an origin compute node associated with an application owner resulting in a compressed micro cloud application reading by at least one of the one or more computer processors the credentials file retrieving by at least one of the one or more computer processors based on results of the reading object store access information comprising an object store path and an object store authentication key uploading by at least one of the one or more computer processors the compressed frozen image of the micro cloud application in response to the retrieving the object store access information and generating by at least one of the one or more computer processors executing the uploading software application an entitlement package comprising the compressed frozen image of the micro cloud application and an encrypted version of the object store access information.

A second aspect of the invention provides a computing system comprising one or more computer processors coupled to a computer readable memory unit the memory unit comprising instructions that when executed by at least one of the one or more computer processors implements an image uploading method comprising registering by at least one of the one or more computer processors based on a specified business agreement between an application vendor and an administrator of the computing system the application vendor with an account with respect to the computing system transmitting by at least one of the one or more computer processors to the application vendor in response to the registering a credentials file and an uploading software application executing by at least one of the one or more computer processors the uploading software application compressing by at least one of the one or more computer processors a frozen image of a micro cloud application running on an origin compute node associated with an application owner resulting in a compressed micro cloud application reading by at least one of the one or more computer processors the credentials file retrieving by at least one of the one or more computer processors based on results of the reading object store access information comprising an object store path and an object store authentication key uploading by at least one of the one or more computer processors the compressed frozen image of the micro cloud application in response to the retrieving the object store access information and generating by at least one of the one or more computer processors executing the uploading software application an entitlement package comprising the compressed frozen image of the micro cloud application and an encrypted version of the object store access information.

A third aspect of the invention provides a computer program product comprising a computer readable hardware storage device storing a computer readable program code the computer readable program code comprising an algorithm that when executed by one or more computer processors of a computing system implements an image uploading method the method comprising registering by at least one of the one or more computer processors based on a specified business agreement between an application vendor and an administrator of the computing system the application vendor with an account with respect to the computing system transmitting by at least one of the one or more computer processors to the application vendor in response to the registering a credentials file and an uploading software application executing by at least one of the one or more computer processors the uploading software application compressing by at least one of the one or more computer processors a frozen image of a micro cloud application running on an origin compute node associated with an application owner resulting in a compressed micro cloud application reading by at least one of the one or more computer processors the credentials file retrieving by at least one of the one or more computer processors based on results of the reading object store access information comprising an object store path and an object store authentication key uploading by at least one of the one or more computer processors the compressed frozen image of the micro cloud application in response to the retrieving the object store access information and generating by at least one of the one or more computer processors executing the uploading software application an entitlement package comprising the compressed frozen image of the micro cloud application and an encrypted version of the object store access information.

The present invention advantageously provides a simple method and associated system capable of accessing cloud based systems.

System of includes an application vendor system an application owner system a micro cloud system and a cloud object store connected through a network to a server . Network may include any type of network including inter alia a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet a wireless network etc. Application vendor system application owner system micro cloud system Cloud object store and server may include any type of hardware device and or software systems including inter alia a computer PC a laptop computer a tablet computer a server a PDA a smart phone a database system an embedded controller etc. An embedded controller is defined herein as a computer comprising a dedicated functionality that enables various system tasks that an operating system does not handle. An embedded controller may include specific internal dedicated hardware such as a microcontroller a CPU comprising integrated memory and peripherals . Additionally an embedded controller may include its own RAM and flash ROM for its own internal dedicated software. Server includes a memory system . Memory system may include a single memory system. Alternatively memory system may include a plurality of memory systems. Memory system may include a database and software . A database may include a database table. Software enables system to perform a process for transforming an application runtime environment into a micro cloud image for upstream processing. An upstream processing command will upload the micro cloud image into a cloud based on an account key belonging to an application vendor via application vendor system . The application vendor is unable to communicate with a back end cloud i.e. a micro cloud system . The account key may comprise an application programming interface API key.

1. Decrypting entitlement package with a private key of server such that an application remains unknown.

2. Allowing via a decrypted vendor API server to verify entitlement rights to an application within an object store of a vendor.

3. Verifying via a decrypted path to the vendor s micro cloud image the end user s entitlement to the application and micro cloud image.

1. Generating a one time use randomly named public read only secure URL connected to micro cloud image . The URL may include a specified time limit for use.

2. Transmitting the URL to the download command. The download command connects to the URL and initiates a download. Additionally the download command and end user system are unable to access any other files in the object store except an entitled micro cloud image. 3. During the download process the download command notifies server that the download has initiated. 4. Removing by server the public URL without affecting the currently running download process.

Build portion entitlement package transform portion and deploy portion in combination enable movement of a large data object s while simultaneously and cryptographically capturing authentication credentials of a cloud object store. The captured authentication credentials are cryptographically sealed such that exposure of the authentication credentials is protected. Additionally the captured authentication credentials are embedded into an entitlement file packaged into an entitlement package for publically available sale. An associated purchased retriever file is enabled such that it will not expose the authentication credentials as they are cryptographically sealed. Upon purchase and execution the retriever program authenticates to a server cryptographically verifying the authentication credentials on a cloud server without exposing the authentication credential to a purchaser. Additionally the cloud server opens a unique secure onetime SSL connection directly to the cloud object store and removes the server from the download network flow. Upon initiation of the download a unique one time ephemeral URL is removed without disruption to the currently running download process. A cryptographic one to one binding between the retriever file and the large data object s prevent the retriever from accessing any other objects in the cloud object store. The unique and secure onetime connection comprises a direct connection between the system running the retriever program and the cloud object store. The direct connection comprising a download only connection and does not allow the retriever to write or alter any objects in the cloud object store.

Aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software microcode etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. 

The present invention may be a system a method and or a computer program product. The computer program product may include a computer readable storage medium or media having computer readable program instructions thereon for causing a processor to carry out aspects of the present invention.

The computer readable storage medium can be a tangible device that can retain and store instructions for use by an instruction execution device. The computer readable storage medium may be for example but is not limited to an electronic storage device a magnetic storage device an optical storage device an electromagnetic storage device a semiconductor storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. A non exhaustive list of more specific examples of the computer readable storage medium includes the following a portable computer diskette a hard disk a solid state drive SDD a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory a static random access memory SRAM a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM a digital versatile disk DVD a memory stick a floppy disk a mechanically encoded device such as punch cards or raised structures in a groove having instructions recorded thereon and any suitable combination of the foregoing. A computer readable storage medium as used herein is not to be construed as being transitory signals per se such as radio waves or other freely propagating electromagnetic waves electromagnetic waves propagating through a waveguide or other transmission media e.g. light pulses passing through a fiber optic cable or electrical signals transmitted through a wire.

Computer readable program instructions described herein can be downloaded to respective computing processing devices from a computer readable storage medium or to an external computer or external storage device via a network for example the Internet a local area network a wide area network and or a wireless network. The network may comprise copper transmission cables optical transmission fibers wireless transmission routers firewalls switches gateway computers and or edge servers. A network adapter card or network interface in each computing processing apparatus receives computer readable program instructions from the network and forwards the computer readable program instructions for storage in a computer readable storage medium within the respective computing processing device.

Computer readable program instructions for carrying out operations of the present invention may be assembler instructions instruction set architecture ISA instructions machine instructions machine dependent instructions microcode firmware instructions state setting data or either source code or object code written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The computer readable program instructions may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider . In some embodiments electronic circuitry including for example programmable logic circuitry field programmable gate arrays FPGA or programmable logic arrays PLA may execute the computer readable program instructions by utilizing state information of the computer readable program instructions to personalize the electronic circuitry in order to perform aspects of the present invention.

Aspects of the present invention are described herein with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods device systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer readable program instructions.

These computer readable program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing device to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing device create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks. These computer readable program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable storage medium that can direct a computer a programmable data processing device and or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the computer readable storage medium having instructions stored therein comprises an article of manufacture including instructions which implement aspects of the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer readable program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing device or other device to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable device or other device to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer other programmable device or other device implement the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of instructions which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s .

In some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or carry out combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

The computer system illustrated in includes a processor an input device coupled to the processor an output device coupled to the processor and memory devices and each coupled to the processor . The input device may be inter alia a keyboard a mouse a camera a touchscreen etc. The output device may be inter alia a printer a plotter a computer screen a magnetic tape a removable hard disk a floppy disk etc. The memory devices and may be inter alia a hard disk a floppy disk a magnetic tape an optical storage such as a compact disc CD or a digital video disc DVD a dynamic random access memory DRAM a read only memory ROM etc. The memory device includes a computer code . The computer code includes algorithms e.g. the algorithms of for enabling a process for creating an entitlement package that is cryptographically bound to a micro cloud computing image within a cloud object store. The processor executes the computer code . The memory device includes input data . The input data includes input required by the computer code . The output device displays output from the computer code . Either or both memory devices and or one or more additional memory devices such as read only memory device may include the algorithms of and may be used as a computer usable medium or a computer readable medium or a program storage device having a computer readable program code embodied therein and or having other data stored therein wherein the computer readable program code includes the computer code . Generally a computer program product or alternatively an article of manufacture of the computer system may include the computer usable medium or the program storage device .

In some embodiments rather than being stored and accessed from a hard drive optical disc or other writeable rewriteable or removable hardware memory device stored computer program code e.g. including the algorithms of may be stored on a static nonremovable read only storage medium such as a Read Only Memory ROM device or may be accessed by processor directly from such a static nonremovable read only memory device . Similarly in some embodiments stored computer program code may be stored as computer readable firmware or may be accessed by processor directly from such firmware rather than from a more dynamic or removable hardware data storage device such as a hard drive or optical disc.

Still yet any of the components of the present invention could be created integrated hosted maintained deployed managed serviced etc. by a service supplier who offers to enable a process for creating an entitlement package that is cryptographically bound to a micro cloud computing image within a cloud object store. Thus the present invention discloses a process for deploying creating integrating hosting maintaining and or integrating computing infrastructure including integrating computer readable code into the computer system wherein the code in combination with the computer system is capable of performing a method for enabling a process for creating an entitlement package that is cryptographically bound to a micro cloud computing image within a cloud object store. In another embodiment the invention provides a business method that performs the process steps of the invention on a subscription advertising and or fee basis. That is a service supplier such as a Solution Integrator could offer to allow users to enable a process for creating an entitlement package that is cryptographically bound to a micro cloud computing image within a cloud object store. In this case the service supplier can create maintain support etc. a computer infrastructure that performs the process steps of the invention for one or more customers. In return the service supplier can receive payment from the customer s under a subscription and or fee agreement and or the service supplier can receive payment from the sale of advertising content to one or more third parties.

While shows the computer system as a particular configuration of hardware and software any configuration of hardware and software as would be known to a person of ordinary skill in the art may be utilized for the purposes stated supra in conjunction with the particular computer system of . For example the memory devices and may be portions of a single memory device rather than separate memory devices.

While embodiments of the present invention have been described herein for purposes of illustration many modifications and changes will become apparent to those skilled in the art. Accordingly the appended claims are intended to encompass all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit and scope of this invention.

