---

title: Network control of applications using application states
abstract: Application states of applications associated with a communication device can be network controlled. An application agent, associated with an application used by the communication device, controls transitioning the application between application states based on network indicators received or network events detected from a communication network. The application states include active state or doze state. An application management component associated with the communication network at least partially controls transitioning the application between application states to facilitate controlling network traffic or reducing network congestion. The application agent or application management component can map application states to various factors, including radio states, congestion level, application performance indicators, network policies, or user policies, to facilitate determining which application state to apply to an application at a given time. The application agent can be in a centralized location, or at a same or different location as the application source.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09420400&OS=09420400&RS=09420400
owner: AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I, L.P.
number: 09420400
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20151215
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority to each of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 621 270 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 253 095 filed Feb. 12 2015 and entitled NETWORK CONTROL OF APPLICATIONS USING APPLICATION STATES which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 492 434 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 995 339 filed Jun. 8 2012 and entitled NETWORK CONTROL OF APPLICATIONS USING APPLICATION STATES the entireties of which applications are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

This disclosure relates generally to network communications e.g. to network control of applications using application states.

A wireless communication system can be utilized to provide wireless access to various communication services e.g. voice video data messaging content broadcast etc. for users of the system. Wireless communication systems can operate according to a variety of network specifications and or standards such as for example Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE High Speed Packet Access HSPA . These specifications and or standards use different modulation techniques such as Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Multi Carrier CDMA MC CDMA Single Carrier CDMA SC CDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access OFDMA Single Carrier Frequency Division Multiple Access SC FDMA and so on.

Communication devices e.g. wireless communication devices such as mobile phones electronic tablets electronic gaming devices and computers are increasingly using applications to perform various functions and to communicate information between these communication devices and other communication devices e.g. other mobile phones electronic tablets electronic gaming devices computers servers etc. . An application can reside on a user s communication device in a cloud and or on a server farm for example.

In wireless communication networks management of network traffic and network congestion can be desirable to facilitate efficient communication of traffic between communication devices. The increased use of applications by communication devices increase in the amount of traffic being communicated in communication networks differences in the classifications and or characteristics of newly introduced applications and or other factors can make management of network traffic and network congestion increasingly more challenging and problematic for today s systems.

The above described description is merely intended to provide a contextual overview of wireless communication networks and is not intended to be exhaustive.

Techniques for controlling an application s using application states are presented herein. The disclosed subject matter can include a method that can comprise applying by a system including at least one processor a mapping function associated with an application wherein the mapping function at least in part maps a subset of application states of the application to a subset of wireless communication states associated with a communication device that uses the application in a communication network. The method also can include controlling by the system transitioning the application between application states based on the mapping function and a wireless communication state associated with the communication device.

The disclosed subject matter also can include a system comprising at least one memory that stores computer executable instructions. The system also can include at least one processor communicatively coupled to the at least one memory that facilitates execution of the computer executable instructions to at least apply a mapping function associated with an application wherein the mapping function at least in part maps a subset of application states of the application to a subset of radio communication states associated with a mobile communication device that uses the application in a communication network and control transition of the application between application states based on the mapping function and a radio communication state associated with the mobile communication device.

The disclosed subject matter further can comprise a computer program product which can include a computer readable medium comprising computer executable instructions that in response to execution by a computing system cause the computing system to perform operations comprising applying a mapping function associated with an application wherein the mapping function at least in part maps a subset of application states of the application to a subset of wireless communication states associated with a communication device that uses the application in a communication network and controlling switching of the application between application states based on the mapping function and a wireless communication state associated with the communication device.

Further the disclosed subject matter can include a system comprising at least one memory that stores computer executable instructions. The system also can include at least one processor communicatively coupled to the at least one memory that facilitates execution of the computer executable instructions to at least provide information that indicates an application is to be switched between a first application state and a second application state of a subset of application states associated with the application and control transition of the application between the first application state and the second application state based on a mapping function associated with the application and a wireless communication state of a mobile communication device associated with a communication network wherein the mapping function maps the subset of application states associated with the application to a subset of wireless communication states associated with the mobile communication device.

The description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative aspects of the disclosed subject matter. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the disclosed subject matter may be employed. The disclosed subject matter is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents. Other advantages and distinctive features of the disclosed subject matter will become apparent from the following detailed description of the disclosed subject matter when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

Various aspects of the disclosed subject matter are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing one or more aspects.

Communication devices e.g. wireless communication devices such as mobile phones electronic tablets electronic gaming devices and computers are increasingly using applications including intelligent applications to communicate information between these communication devices and other communication devices e.g. other mobile phones electronic tablets electronic gaming devices computers servers etc. . An application can reside on a user s communication device in a cloud and or on a server farm for example.

In wireless communication networks management of network traffic and network congestion can be desirable to facilitate efficient communication of traffic between communication devices. The increased use of applications by communication devices increase in the amount of traffic being communicated in communication networks differences in the classifications and or characteristics of newly introduced applications continuing evolution of applications and various other factors can make management of network traffic and network congestion increasingly more challenging and problematic for today s systems. Network behavior and application behavior can be dependent on a number of factors such as for example the number of active users network congestion level user behavior with regard to communication devices and or the demographics of the user environments including mobile communication device capabilities and the presence of other active applications on the mobile communication devices.

Currently communication networks lack information relating to applications that can be desirable to better manage communication of network traffic. Also applications often may not be aware of underlying network mechanisms or congestion states of the network and the applications typically may not be able to coordinate with the network to relieve the network congestion. Traffic flow and network congestion control can be manageable through taking preventative and reactive measures however when network congestion indications are present if nothing is done or inefficient measures are taken there can be a significant e.g. high probability of massive chain reactions in the network which can cause greater problems in the network. One potential way to manage application operations in relation to network conditions e.g. network congestion levels can be to employ constant traffic monitoring by end devices e.g. mobile phones computers etc. . However constant traffic monitoring by the end devices can unduly tax the end devices in terms of configuration enabling disabling and reporting.

To that end techniques that can facilitate network control of application states of applications associated with a communication device are presented herein. An application agent e.g. proxy agent which can be associated with an application used by the communication device can identify a state of the application and can communicate that application state to an application management component associated with the communication network. The application states can include for example an active state or a doze e.g. inactive sleep etc. state although in some implementations one or more other application states can be used in addition to or as an alternative to the active state and or doze state. In some implementations the application agent can communicate other application related information such as for example an elasticity level of the application e.g. more elasticity can indicate a less time critical application less elasticity can indicate a more time critical application e.g. a real time application such as Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP video streaming or audio streaming performance indicators e.g. key performance indicators KPIs associated with the application and or application category etc. to the application management component.

The application agent or the application management component can generate a mapping function mapping application states of an application to various factors such as radio states e.g. wireless communication access states such as for example a fetch FTCH state a dedicated channel DCH state an idle state etc. network congestion level performance indicators e.g. KPIs associated with the application network policies user policies etc. to facilitate determining which application state to apply to the application at a given time. The KPIs can include indicators relating to for example VoIP video streaming multimedia electronic gaming wireless communication factors or parameters near field communication factors or parameters security factors or parameters bandwidth factors or parameters location related parameters etc.

The application agent can monitor detect and or receive information relating to application conditions e.g. application state of the application information relating to network conditions e.g. indicator relating to network congestion level from the application management component network related information from a lower network layer s e.g. network related state or event information and or information that can be obtained via use of a software development kit s SDK s or application programming interface s API s . At desired times e.g. periodically or in response to detected or received information e.g. network condition related indicator and or application control information from the application management component network related state or event detected in a lower network layer etc. the application agent can analyze the various factors parameters information e.g. network state or event information from lower network layers etc. and using e.g. applying the mapping function can identify an application state to apply to the application based at least in part on the analysis results and the mapping function.

For example the application agent can receive a network condition related indicator e.g. a network congestion indicator that can indicate the network is not experiencing a high level of network congestion a network congestion indicator that can indicate the communication network has reached e.g. breached a certain threshold level of network congestion e.g. a high e.g. maximum threshold network congestion level from the application management component. In response to receiving that network condition related indicator the application agent can analyze the network condition related indicator and or other information and can apply the mapping function to that indicator and or other information to determine which application state e.g. active state doze state the application is to be set. In some implementations the mapping function and or a set of defined rules that can constitute the mapping function can be stored e.g. in the form of a rules look up table in a data store associated with the application agent.

In response to determining the application state to be employed for the application the application agent can generate control information e.g. control command that can indicate the application state to which the application is to be set e.g. transitioned or maintained . The application agent can communicate the control information to the application to facilitate controlling the application state of the application. The application can receive the control information and can set e.g. transition maintain the application to the application state indicated by the control information.

In accordance with various implementations the application agent can be located in a centralized location e.g. in or associated with a core network at a same location as the application source e.g. on the communication device when the application is located on the communication device in the cloud when the application is location in the cloud etc. and or at a different location e.g. on the communication device wherein the application is located in the cloud in the core network wherein the application is located on the communication device or in the cloud etc. . In some implementations the application agent can be distributed across multiple components e.g. communication device core network cloud etc. of the communication network.

An application that meets a defined certification criterion s can be certified as a qualified e.g. intelligent application by the communication network e.g. the application management component of the communication network . In some implementations applications e.g. intelligent applications that meet the defined certification criterion s can be automatically certified by the communication network. The defined certification criterion s can include for example that the application will transition between application states in response to control information from the application management component the application will comply with applicable rules SDKs and or APIs the application and or associated application agent will provide information regarding its current application state e.g. upon request periodically in response to a triggering event etc. and or the application and or associated application agent will provide desired information to the application agent and or application management component to enable the application agent and or the application management component to generate a mapping function comprising a mapping between the application states and the various factors. An SDK or API can be used to facilitate registering or certifying an application with the application management component exchanging of information e.g. application states KPIs etc. between the network and the application agent etc. to facilitate enabling the application agent and application management component to manage operation of the application.

Referring now to the drawings illustrates a block diagram of an example system that can control transition of application states of one or more applications associated with user equipment UE in accordance with various aspects and embodiments described herein. The system can comprise a UE e.g. mobile and or wireless communication device such as a mobile phone e.g. 3GPP Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS phone personal digital assistant PDA computer set top box electronic notebook electronic pad or tablet electronic gaming device etc. that can operate and communicate in a communication network environment. In an aspect the UE can be communicatively connected via a wireless communication connection s via an access point AP to a communication network s COMM. NW s .

In an aspect as the UE is moved through a wireless communication network environment at various times the UE can be connected e.g. wirelessly connected to one of a plurality of APs e.g. macro or cellular AP femto AP pico AP Wi Fi AP Wi Max AP hotspot e.g. Hotspot 1.x Hotspot 2.x where x is an integer number UE functioning as a mobile hotspot etc. etc. such as an AP that can operate in the wireless communication network environment. An AP e.g. can serve a specified coverage area to facilitate communication by the UE or other UEs in the wireless communication network environment. The AP can serve a respective coverage cell e.g. macrocell femtocell picocell etc. that can cover a respective specified area and the AP can service mobile wireless devices such as UE located in the respective area covered by the respective cell where such coverage can be achieved via a wireless link e.g. uplink UL downlink DL . When an attachment attempt is successful the UE can be served by the AP and incoming voice and data traffic can be paged and routed to the UE through the AP and outgoing voice and data traffic from the UE can be paged and routed through the AP to other communication devices e.g. another UE in the communication network environment. In an aspect the UE can be connected and can communicate wirelessly using virtually any desired wireless technology including for example cellular Wi Fi Wi Max wireless local area networks WLAN etc.

In another aspect the communication network can facilitate wireless connection with the UE connected to the AP and facilitate communication by or between a UE and another UE s or other type of communication device s e.g. computer server or server farm that can include an application server or content server that can be provide video content audio content and or other content comprising other types of information etc. such as communication device associated with the communication network in the communication network environment. The communication network can include one or more wireline networks and one or more wireless networks wherein the one or more wireless networks can be based on one or more various types of communication technology or protocols such as for example Third Generation 3G Fourth Generation 4G or x Generation xG network where x can be virtually any desired integer or real value Wi Fi etc. The communication network e.g. a core network or a network comprising a core network and or an IP based network can facilitate routing voice and data communications between a communication device s e.g. UE and other communication devices e.g. another UE communication device associated with the communication network in the communication network environment. The communication network also can allocate resources to the UE or other UEs in the communication network convert or enforce protocols establish and enforce Quality of Service QoS for the UEs provide applications or services in the communication network translate signals and or perform other desired functions to facilitate system interoperability and communication in the communication network e.g. wireless portion of the communication network or wireline portion of the communication network . The communication network further can include desired components such as routers nodes switches interfaces controllers etc. that can facilitate communication of data between communication devices in the communication network environment.

The system can include one or more application agents e.g. proxy agent s which can be associated with one or more applications used by or associated with e.g. communicatively connected to the UE . An application agent can facilitate controlling the operating state e.g. active state doze state other operating state of an associated application . In accordance with various implementations an application agent s can be located on the UE the base station the communication network the communication device a cloud e.g. cloud computing system associated with e.g. communicatively connected to the communication network and or in another component associated with the communication network . It is to be appreciated and understood that in the dotted lines from the application agent to various components e.g. UE base station communication network cloud etc. and the application agents represented by boxes formed of a dotted line are intended to illustrate various example locations of the application agent s in relation to various components of the system .

In accordance with various implementations an application agent can be located in a centralized location e.g. in or associated with a core network at a same location as the source of the application e.g. on the UE when the application is located on the UE in the cloud when the application is location in the cloud etc. and or at a different location e.g. on the UE wherein the application is located in the cloud in the core network wherein the application is located on the UE or in the cloud etc. depending in part on the type of application type of UE and or other factors in accordance with one or more defined application control criterion. In some implementations an application agent can be distributed across multiple components e.g. UE core network cloud etc. associated with the communication network .

In accordance with various implementations an application s can be located on the UE communication network communication device cloud and or in another component associated with the communication network . It is to be appreciated and understood that in the dotted lines from the application to various components e.g. UE communication network cloud etc. and the application s represented by a box formed of a dotted line are intended to illustrate various example locations of the application s within various components of the system . It is also to be appreciated and understood that the double arrowed solid line between the UE and the application s e.g. one or more applications is intended to represent that the UE can be connected e.g. directly with one or more applications using for example one or more various types of wireless communication technology such as near field communication NFC technology Bluetooth technology ZigBee technology etc. In some implementations the UE can function as a mobile hotspot e.g. AP to which one or more applications can be wirelessly connected to facilitate communication of traffic e.g. voice or data traffic between an application s and the communication network via the UE . It is to be further appreciated and understood that one or more communication devices e.g. can be located within the cloud wherein for example the cloud can include a server farm comprising one or more servers e.g. application servers that can be utilized to perform respective application functions e.g. VoIP video streaming messaging multimedia electronic gaming news related functions social media functions finance related functions etc. based at least in part on the type of application.

In some implementations the communication network can include or be associated with e.g. communicatively connected to an application management component AMC that can at least partially control application states and or operations of applications associated with UEs such as UE associated with the communication network . The application management component also can be associated with e.g. communicatively connected to the one or more application agents to facilitate controlling the application states of one or more applications associated with the one or more application agents .

An application agent can identify a state of an application s and can communicate that application state to the application management component . The application states can include for example an active state or a doze e.g. inactive state. The active state can be a state wherein the application can be actively transmitting information to or receiving information from another communication device e.g. via the communication network . The doze state can be a state wherein the application can be asleep inactive and or otherwise not in active communication with another communication device e.g. via the communication network . When an application is in e.g. is commanded to be in an active state the application can function in a normal manner for that application . When an application is in e.g. is commanded to be in a doze state the application can function as recommended or commanded by the application agent and or application management component in accordance with the defined application control criterion s including criterion s relating to network access policies. In some implementations one or more other application states e.g. an intermediate state s between the active state and doze state can be used in addition to or as an alternative to the active state and or doze state. The application agent also can communicate other application related information such as for example an elasticity level of the application e.g. more elasticity can indicate a less time critical application less elasticity can indicate a more time critical application e.g. a real time application such as VoIP video streaming or audio streaming performance indicators e.g. key performance indicators KPIs associated with the application and or an application category associated with the application etc. to the application management component to facilitate managing application states of the application . In some implementations the disclosed subject matter using an application agent s and or application management component can enable elastic applications which have more elasticity to have a greater degree of flexibility in operation as compared to non elastic or less elastic applications.

The application agent and or the application management component can generate a mapping function mapping application states of an application to various factors such as radio states e.g. wireless communication access states such as for example a fetch FTCH state a dedicated channel DCH state an idle state etc. network congestion level of the communication network performance indicators e.g. KPIs associated with the application network policies of the communication network user policies of users associated with the UEs etc. to facilitate determining which application state to apply to the application at a given time. The KPIs can include indicators relating to for example VoIP video streaming multimedia electronic gaming wireless communication factors or parameters near field communication NFC factors or parameters security factors or parameters bandwidth factors or parameters location related parameters etc. For example a KPI of an application can state that the application desires e.g. requires at least a certain communication speed e.g. kilobytes per second kbps when communicating with e.g. downloading data via the communication network a KPI can specify that the application has respective e.g. different characteristics and or capabilities based on the type of communication network e.g. 3G network Wi Fi network etc. and these respective characteristics and or capabilities are to be taken into account by the communication network and or the application management component when servicing the application or another KPI can be location related and can specify that certain characteristics and or capabilities of the application pertain to a particular zone e.g. geographical zone and these certain characteristics and or capabilities are to be taken into account by the communication network and or the application management component when servicing the application while in or associated with that particular zone.

The application agent associated with an application can monitor detect and or receive information relating to application conditions e.g. application state of the application information relating to network conditions e.g. indicator relating to network congestion level from the application management component network related information from a lower network layer s e.g. network related state or event information and or information that can be obtained via use of an SDK s or API s . At desired times e.g. periodically or in response to detected or received information e.g. network condition related indicator and or application control information from the application management component network related state or event detected in a lower network layer etc. the application agent can analyze the various factors parameters information e.g. network state or event information from lower network layers etc. and using e.g. applying the mapping function associated with the application the application agent can identify an application state to apply to the application based at least in part on the analysis results and the mapping function.

For example the application agent can receive a network condition related indicator e.g. a network congestion indicator that can indicate the communication network e.g. wireless portion of the communication network is not experiencing a high level of network congestion a network congestion indicator that can indicate the communication network has reached e.g. breached a certain threshold level of network congestion e.g. a defined high threshold network congestion level from the application management component . In response to receiving that network condition related indicator the application agent can analyze the network condition related indicator and or other information e.g. various factors parameters etc. and can apply the mapping function to that indicator and or other information to determine which application state e.g. active state doze state the application is to be set. In some implementations the mapping function and or a set of defined rules that can constitute the mapping function can be stored e.g. in the form of a rules look up table in a data store not shown in e.g. as shown in associated with the application agent .

For instance if the network congestion indicator indicates that the communication network is not experiencing a high level of network congestion e.g. network congestion is below a defined high threshold network congestion level and the mapping function specifies that the application can be set to the active state or can remain in the doze state in response to such network congestion indicator the application agent can facilitate setting e.g. transitioning the application to the active state or the doze state e.g. unless there are other factors contained in the mapping of the mapping function that would dictate differently with regard to the application state . If the network congestion indicator indicates that the communication network is experiencing a high level of network congestion e.g. network congestion that is at or above a defined high threshold network congestion level and the mapping function specifies that the application is to be set to the doze state in response to such network congestion indicator the application agent can facilitate setting e.g. transitioning the application to the doze state e.g. unless there are other factors contained in the mapping of the mapping function that would dictate differently with regard to the application state wherein the mapping function specifies that the application be in the active state even if the network congestion indicator indicates a high level of network congestion due to other factors relating to the application . While in the doze state the application can operate in accordance with a desired e.g. good behavior in relation to the communication network and or can operate using alternative measures such as for example using a cache another access selection queue management local storage or other control means available to the application to facilitate performing at least some operations of the application .

In response to determining the application state to be employed for the application the application agent can generate control information e.g. control command that can indicate the application state to which the application is to be set e.g. transitioned or maintained . The application agent can communicate the control information to the application to facilitate controlling the application state of the application . The application can receive the control information and can set e.g. transition maintain the application to the application state indicated by the control information.

In some implementations the application agent and or application management component can synchronize communications and or application states of multiple applications to facilitate efficient communication of traffic in the communication network reducing signaling relating to application state transitions and or use of communication channels and or otherwise reduce resources used by the UE and or the communication network as well as reduce power consumption by the UE and or the communication network . For instance a first application e.g. can be transmitting content via a communication channel and a second application e.g. can be ready to transmit or preparing to transmit its content via that communication channel. The application management component and the application agent s associated with the first application and second application can control the respective application states of the first application and second application and the state of the communication channel to synchronize the respective application states of the first application and second application so that the application state of the first application remains in the active state and or the application state of the second application transitions to the active state so that the content of the second application can be communicated via the communication channel after the content of the first application is communicated via the communication channel without the communication channel transitioning to the idle state and then back to an active state between the communication of the content of the first application and the communication of the content of the second application. This can reduce the signaling relating to transitioning of the communication channel between the idle state and active state and or can reduce the signaling between the second application and or the associated application agent and or the first application and or the associated application agent and the communication network and or the application management component in relation to communicating content via the communication channel and or establishing communication with the communication channel.

In some implementations the UE can function as a mobile hotspot e.g. AP to facilitate communication of traffic e.g. voice or data traffic between an application s and the communication network via the UE . One or more applications can be wirelessly connected to the UE which can act as a mobile hotspot in relation to the one or more applications . An application agent associated with the one or more applications connected to the UE and or the application management component can control switching of the respective applications between respective applications states based at least in part on respective mapping functions of the respective applications the defined application control criterion s and or corresponding defined application control rules user policies in a user profile s associated with the UE and or the application s etc. as more fully disclosed herein.

The mapping function associated with an application can be based in part on e.g. at least initially default control settings e.g. device level default control settings wherein the application can use device level capabilities to enhance e.g. improve optimize maximize the experience of the user. In certain implementations a user of an application and or the UE can select or implement one or more user policies that can be included or incorporated in to the mapping function associated with the application to facilitate controlling the application state of the application based at least in part on the one or more user policies e.g. as desired by the user . For instance the application agent associated with the application can offer a menu of application related policies to the user via the UE or other communication device and the user can select one or more of those application related policies from the menu and those policies can be stored as user policies for the application in a user profile associated with the user wherein the user profile can be stored in a data store s associated with the application agent and or the application management component . Some example application related user selected policies can include or relate to controlling when the application is in the active state or doze state controlling the minimum communication rate e.g. kbps for communications associated with the application controlling location related parameters relating to the application controlling security parameters relating to the application etc.

In some implementations an application that meets a defined certification criterion s can be certified by the communication network e.g. the application management component of the communication network . An application e.g. qualified or intelligent application that meets the defined certification criterion s can be automatically certified as a qualified e.g. intelligent application by the communication network . The defined certification criterion s can relate to or be part of defined application control criterion s . The defined certification criterion s can include for example that the application will transition between application states in response to control information from the application management component and or application agent the application will comply with applicable rules SDKs and or APIs the application and or associated application agent will provide information regarding the application s current application state e.g. upon request periodically in response to a triggering event etc. and or the application and or associated application agent will provide desired information to the application agent and or application management component to enable the application agent and or the application management component to generate a mapping function comprising a mapping between the application states and the various factors. An SDK or API can be used to facilitate registering or certifying an application with the application management component exchanging of information e.g. application states KPIs etc. between the communication network and the application agent etc. to facilitate enabling the application agent and application management component to manage operation and or application states of the application .

The application agent can be associated with e.g. communicatively connected to a data store that can store data relating to operations of the application agent applications associated with the application agent mapping functions associated with the applications etc. The data store can store one or more rules wherein respective rules can be associated with respective mapping functions of respective applications to facilitate controlling application states and or other operations of the applications in accordance with the respective rules.

The application agent can receive information to facilitate determining which state an application is to be in at a given time and controlling the application state of that application. For instance the application agent can receive information including access states associated with a communication network s not shown in e.g. as shown in application flow state APIs and or other information from other sources. The application agent can analyze the access states application flow state APIs and or other information to facilitate generating a mapping function comprising a mapping of application states to access states e.g. radio states associated with applications and or associated communication devices congestions notifications and or other network congestion policies etc. The application agent can use the mapping function to facilitate determining which state an application is to be in at a given time and controlling the application state of that application. In some implementations the application agent also can map hypertext markup language HTML related protocols or parameters e.g. protocols or parameters relating to HTML5 HTML 4.01 eXtensible HTML XHTML 1.1 etc. to bearer functions and application states in relation to an application.

The application agent can apply a mapping function associated with the application wherein the mapping function can be stored in the data store and can include one or more rules and can control the application state and or other operations of the application based at least in part on the mapping function and the analysis results relating to the received information. The application agent can generate control information including a state change notification and can communicate such control information to an application to facilitate changing an application state of the application in according with the mapping function of the application. The application can receive such control information and can set e.g. adjust transition etc. its application state in response to the received control information.

The application agent also can receive over the air rules updates for example from the communication network and can store the updated rules in the data store . For example the application agent can update a mapping function of an application based at least in part on the updated rules and can store the updated mapping function in the data store wherein the updated mapping function can be used by the application agent to facilitate determining which state the application is to be in at a given time and controlling the application state of that application.

The application agent also can communicate device or application flows characterizations to for example the communication network e.g. an application management component associated with the communication network to facilitate enabling the communication network to have information regarding the application including characteristics and or capabilities of the application and or information relating to information flow associated with the application and or associated UE. The communication network e.g. associated application management component can use the device or application flow characterizations to facilitate making determinations regarding an application state an application is to be in at a given time synchronizing communications and or application states of applications determining and or communicating network congestion notifications etc.

Referring to along with illustrates a diagram of an example application control framework that can be employed to control application states of applications associated with a communication network in accordance with various aspects and embodiments described herein. The application control framework can include a communication network comm. NW that can enable communication of information e.g. voice or data information between communication devices comm. devices e.g. UEs computers servers electronic pads or tablets etc. that can be distributed across a communication network environment as part of the application control framework .

The application control framework also can include one or more congestion mechanisms that can be used to monitor detect and or control network congestion associated with the communication network . The congestion mechanisms can be associated with or included in for example an application agent e.g. a communication device e.g. UE communication device cloud or application management component e.g. . The communication devices and the congestion mechanisms respectively can include and use an interface that can enable the communication devices to access manage and or use the congestion mechanisms and or the interface can be used to communicate information between a communication device and a congestion mechanism . In some implementations the interface s associated with the communication devices and congestion mechanisms can be operating system OS specific.

The application control framework can include radio resource congestion probes that can be used to monitor detect and or measure communication conditions e.g. network congestion communication channel conditions signal strength etc. associated with the communication network . The radio resource congestion probes can be associated with for example an application agent or application management component. A radio resource congestion probe can include an interface that can enable the radio resource congestion probe to interface and communicate with the congestion mechanisms and the communication network wherein the congestion mechanisms and the communication network each can have an interface that can enable the congestion mechanisms and the communication network to interface and communicate with radio resource congestion probes .

The radio resource congestion probes also can interface with or otherwise be associated with application states e.g. active state doze state etc. associated with an application s and one or more application APIs that can be part of the application control framework . The congestion mechanisms also can be interfaced with the one or more application APIs associated with the applications to facilitate enabling an application agent to obtain information associated with the communication network and operate pursuant to communication network standards e.g. network policies applicable to an application certified as a qualified application . The application APIs can define the expected behavior of application states of applications. In some implementations at least some of the application APIs can be defined and standardized among application developers to facilitate efficient use of application APIs in the communication network environment. The application agent and or associated application can use the application APIs as disclosed herein.

The application control framework can employ application performance indicators e.g. KPIs or key performance requirements respectively associated with applications and the congestion mechanisms can be associated with or interface with the application performance indicators . The application performance indicators can provide information regarding the level of elasticity of an application an application category or type for an application and or other information relating to the performance or functions of the application the level or type of service the application desires from the communication network etc. The application agent and or associated application can provide the application performance indicators to the communication network and or associated application management component to facilitate enabling the communication network to identify the application performance indicators of the application and or to facilitate registering or certifying the application e.g. enabling the application to self certify with the communication network .

The application control framework can further include a mapping of wireless states that can be a mapping function that contains a mapping of the wireless e.g. radio states to the application states of the applications and or other factors such as all or a portion of the application performance indicators network indicators network policies network conditions application conditions application behavior etc. The application agent and or communication network can generate access and or utilize the mapping function to facilitate managing setting an application to a desired application state as disclosed herein.

The application control framework also can include one or more SDKs which can be associated with or interfaced with the one or more application APIs and can be used by an application agent and or associated application to facilitate enabling the application and or associated application to control transitioning of the application between application states and or having the application agent and or application operate in accordance with communication network standards applicable to qualified applications.

In some implementations the application control framework can comprise one or more server controls associated with one or more servers associated with the communication network . The one or more server controls can be interfaced with the one or more SDKs to facilitate exchanging information to facilitate operation of the one or more SDKs . The interface associated with the one or more server controls can be OS specific in certain implementations.

The application control framework also can provide service and or network feedback to the one or more SDKs via an interface. The service and or network feedback can be associated with generated by and or received from one or more network APIs used by for example an application agent or application management component to provide information relating to the application to the communication network . In some implementations the interfaces associated with the service and or network feedback and or the one or more SDKs can be OS specific.

The one or more network APIs can interface with the communication network to facilitate exchanging information with the communication network to facilitate controlling the application state of an application. The one or more SDKs also can be interfaced with the one or more network APIs to exchange information associated with an application. The one or more network APIs also can facilitate identifying and or providing information relating to the application performance indicators to the communication network . In accordance with various implementations certain of the interfaces associated with the network APIs can be OS specific.

In some implementations the application control framework can utilize cross layer optimization to facilitate communicating e.g. dynamically feedback relating to the communication network between different network layers. The communication network application management component e.g. application agent e.g. and or application e.g. can include components mechanisms and or interfaces that can facilitate implementing the cross layer optimization .

The application control framework can include an application control model that can be employed by an application agent application and or application management component to facilitate controlling operation of the application to transition the application between application states. The application control model can comprise components mechanisms and or interfaces that can obtain and or process e.g. analyze the information associated with the cross layer optimization to facilitate controlling operation of the application to transition the application between application states. In certain implementations the application control model can be associated with and or can interface with the one or more application APIs to exchange information e.g. information obtained or generated by an application API information obtained or generated by the application control model to facilitate controlling operations of the application agent associated application and or the application management component.

The application control framework application agent and or application management component can leverage transitions in wireless states associated with the communication network and or communication devices to facilitate controlling operation of the application to transition the application between application states e.g. in accordance with an associated mapping function . The application control framework also can leverage existing e.g. legacy wireless states mechanisms to facilitate controlling operation of applications e.g. application state transitions . The application control framework can thereby provide for radio level control of applications associated with the communication network .

In accordance with various implementations the systems application control framework methods and techniques disclosed herein can be implemented without requiring a change to existing access technology practices. The disclosed subject matter in part by employing application agents e.g. and an application management component e.g. can indirectly consider wireless state changes overhead when making transition changes and or making determinations regarding transition changes between application states e.g. active doze etc. for respective applications e.g. intelligent or qualified applications operating in the communication network environment as more fully described herein. The disclosed subject matter also can enable the applications agents and or an associated application s to at least be indirectly cognizant of the radio or wireless states e.g. radio resource control RRC states and can map the application states of respective applications to the wireless states associated with applications to facilitate controlling transitions of application states of applications based at least in part on the wireless states. The disclosed subject matter employing the application agents and application management component can utilize a non control channel as a mechanism to present or indicate aggregated network desired behavior in relation to respective applications to facilitate enabling the application agents and application management component to control operations including application state transitions of the respective applications.

In some implementations an application agent s e.g. associated with an application e.g. and or the application can access and or communicate e.g. directly with e.g. signal with lower network layers e.g. media access control MAC layer physical PHY layer etc. and or can facilitate signaling between applications and the lower network layers to facilitate controlling operations including application state transitions of an application in response to network conditions e.g. network congestion levels etc. as more fully disclosed herein. The application management component e.g. can at least partially control application operations and behavior by generating and or using a mapping of multi dimensional network factors e.g. network conditions network policies network anomalies etc. to the multiple application states e.g. active doze etc. of the applications. Intelligent or qualified applications which can be certified with the communication network can facilitate enabling the application management component and other components associated with the communication network to apply cross layer optimization procedures to coordinate preventative measures and desirably e.g. optimally acceptably etc. manage user experience and network resources as more fully disclosed herein.

When a flow is mapped to active state the application agent and or associated application can determine that the communication network can meet the demands on the network by the application. When a flow is mapped to doze state and or the application is commanded to be in the doze state the application can operate and or the application can control the application to operate using desirable e.g. good application behavior and can utilize alternative features such as utilizing a cache making another access selection utilizing queue management and local storage and or other control means available to the application to facilitate reducing the application s demand on the communication network. For example when the application management component sets a network congestion indicator bit to indicate there is a high level of network congestion the application agent associated with the application can transition the application from active state to doze state and the application or associated application agent can control application operations to use good application behavior and or the alternative features to reduce or minimize requests to the communication network and or packet transmissions over the wireless communication channel.

An application e.g. such as an intelligent or qualified application exercising good behavior can apply various operational parameter thresholds and use the alternative measures to stay in the doze state as much and or as long as possible to reduce or minimize the application s demand on the communication network. Certain applications depending in part on their category can generally remain in a doze state and typically can enter e.g. can only enter the active state in response to the associated application agent identifying the wireless state associated with the application or associated communication device being in an active state.

In some implementations the disclosed subject matter employing the application agents and application management component can create a virtual fence for respective specific behaviors of applications based at least in part on user policies network policies and or content policies relating to application or communication device location rate of speed of an application or a communication device associated with a user direction of travel of an application or a communication device associated with a user usage models and or other factors in accordance with defined application control criterion s . The application agents and application management component of the disclosed subject matter also can establish a closed feedback loop with the applications and can use the closed feedback loop to facilitate performing efficient global state updates to and or transitions of application states of applications in relation to e.g. responsive to radio states associated with applications or communication devices and or application states of other applications and can be adaptive to various e.g. different environmental conditions relating to the communication network environment and applications associated therewith. This can function in a manner analogous to traffic stop lights that can be adaptive to a variety of different environmental conditions. The disclosed subject matter using the application agents and application management component can function for example as a preprocessor in front of applications in relation to communication of traffic associated with applications e.g. a stop and go mechanism in relation to communication of traffic associated with applications as more fully described herein.

The disclosed subject matter can provide for significant flexibility for the communication network to better differentiate between the traffic flows based at least in part on multi dimensional application control criteria. For example the application management component and or application agents associated with application can utilize analytics relating to the communication networks and applications to control scheduling of traffic flows of applications to enforce relative fairness among application traffic flows which can enhance user experiences in relation to the applications as compared to conventional schemes. The disclosed subject matter using the application management component and application agents can provide direct network control over the applications more efficiently during periods of high or undesirable e.g. unacceptable network congestion e.g. network congestion that exceeds a defined high threshold network congestion level or emergency response situations associated with the communication network. Also the disclosed subject matter using the application management component and application agents can control respective application states of applications in relation to wireless access states and application traffic flows respectively associated with the applications and or associated communication devices to enable the application states and associated application traffic flows and wireless access states to be in direct synchronization or at least substantially in direct synchronization with each other to enhance e.g. maximize optimize etc. the utilization of radio resources by the communication network and associated devices and components.

The disclosed subject matter in part by employing the application agents application management component defined application control criterion s defined certification criterion s etc. as described herein can provide a number of other advantages over conventional systems methods and techniques. For instance the disclosed subject matter can provide improved control over applications to reduce taxing of the communication network by applications particularly applications that are prone to chattiness e.g. communicating a significant amount of data or signaling as compared to conventional systems methods or techniques. The disclosed subject matter can automatically lower an application s total demand on the communication network and can enforce fairness among respective applications and among respective communication devices as compared to conventional systems methods or techniques.

Also constant traffic monitoring can undesirably tax communication devices in terms of configuration enabling disabling reporting etc. The disclosed subject matter can reduce or minimize traffic monitoring e.g. constant traffic monitoring at the communication device or the communication network while also being able to desirably e.g. at least acceptably control operations including transitions between operation states of applications associated with the communication network. The disclosed subject matter via its reduction and or minimization of traffic monitoring and controlling transitioning of applications between multiple application states can achieve better performance results than conventional systems methods or techniques. Further the disclosed subject matter by using the application agents and application management component that can automatically control transitions of application states of applications can provide improved network and application performance by operating preventively to better control or reduce network congestion before the network congestion becomes unduly problematic as compared to conventional schemes that use a reactive approach to deal with network congestion.

The application agent also can contain an aggregator component that can aggregate data received e.g. obtained from various entities e.g. application application management component communication network UE processor data store etc. . The aggregator component can correlate respective items of data based at least in part on type of data e.g. content network congestion indicator metadata etc. application to which the data relates source of the data time or date the data was generated or received etc. to facilitate analyzing of the data by the analyzer component . For example the aggregator component can aggregate data relating to an application and or other data e.g. data relating to the communication network to facilitate generating a mapping function comprising a mapping between application states and wireless states and or other factors or parameters.

The application agent can comprise an analyzer component that can analyze data to facilitate determining what application state an application is to be set to at a given time determining a current network congestion level or status of the communication network generating control information to set an application state of an application s determining a current state of an application s generating a mapping function and associated mapping associated with an application etc. and can generate analysis results based at least in part on the data analysis. For example the analyzer component can analyze information relating to network congestion e.g. network congestion indicator of the communication network a current application state of an application and or a mapping function associated with the application to determine whether the application is to be transitioned from a current application state to another application state.

The application agent can include a selector component that can select items of data e.g. data relating to an application data relating to the communication network etc. an applicable algorithm e.g. a mapping algorithm a state transition algorithm etc. application related parameter values or other information to facilitate performing one or more functions relating to controlling application states of applications associated with the application agent . For example the selector component can select a mapping function relating to the application information relating to network congestion level information indicating a current application state of the application and or other information to facilitate determining an application state to which the application is to be set and or whether the application state of the application is to be changed.

The application agent also can comprise a state component that can identify available application states of an application identify a current application state of an application and facilitate transitioning the application between application states. The application agent can include a notification component that can obtain e.g. receive detect etc. information relating to network congestion of the communication network and can identify a network congestion level or status based at least in part on such information.

The application agent can contain an update component that can receive updates relating to rules e.g. application control rules mapping functions of applications communication network conditions UE communication conditions etc. The update component can facilitate updating information e.g. rules mapping functions etc. such as information stored in a data store based at least in part on the received updates.

The application agent can comprise an application controller component that can control and or schedule transitions between application states or maintain an application state for an application based at least in part on a mapping function and associated application control rules associated with the application and information relating to network conditions e.g. network congestion level or status . The application controller component can operate in conjunction with the analyzer component and or other components of the application agent e.g. mapper component resource probe component SDK API component processor component etc. to facilitate determining an application state to which an application is to be set at a given time.

The application agent can include a mapper component that can generate or receive a mapping function that can be used in relation to an application to facilitate controlling switching of the application between available application states. In some implementations the mapper component can obtain information relating to available applications states of an application performance indicators associated with the application categorization or characteristics associated with the application wireless states of the communication network network policies and or user policies etc. and can generate a mapping function associated with the application based at least in part on such information.

The application agent also can contain a resource probe component that can comprise one or more probes e.g. radio resource probes or sensors that can sense or detect communication conditions e.g. network congestion level traffic flow rates etc. relating to the communication network a UE and or a server associated with an application etc. For example the resource probe component can use the one or more probes or sensors to detect or obtain information which can relate to communication conditions associated with the communication network and can be contained in lower network layers associated with traffic in the communication network. The application agent can use such information relating to communication conditions associated with the communication network to facilitate making a determination regarding an application state an associated application s is to be set to e.g. transitioned to at a given time based at least in part on the mapping function s associated with the application s .

The application agent can include an SDK API component that can use one or more SDKs or APIs that can facilitate enabling the application agent to obtain information relating to communication network conditions identify information in the lower layers of the traffic flow etc. The application agent can utilize the one or more SDKs or APIs in a manner that comports with the specifications set by the application management component and or communication network to facilitate desired control of application states of applications by the application agent and or to enable the applications to be certified e.g. self certified by the application management component and or communication network.

The application agent also can contain a certification component that can facilitate certifying or registering a qualified application e.g. as an intelligent or qualified application with the application management component and or communication network. An application can be a qualified application for example if the application is able to transition between different application states e.g. active state doze state etc. is configured to or is associated with an application agent configured to comport with network specifications regarding application state transitions in relation to wireless state transitions is configured to or is associated with an application agent configured to use SDKs and or APIs specified by the application management component and or communication network and or other qualifications as specified by the application management component and or communication network.

The application agent can comprise a processor component that can work in conjunction with the other components e.g. communicator component aggregator component analyzer component etc. to facilitate performing the various functions of the application agent . The processor component can employ one or more processors microprocessors or controllers that can process data such as information relating to applications communication network conditions UE communication conditions and or other information etc. to facilitate operation of the application agent as more fully disclosed herein and control data flow between the application agent and other components e.g. communication network base station a server or other communication device a cloud etc. associated with the application agent .

The application agent also can include a data store that can store data structures e.g. user data metadata code structure s e.g. modules objects hashes classes procedures or instructions information relating to applications mapping functions SDKs APIs communication network conditions defined application control criteria and corresponding defined application control rules etc. to facilitate controlling operations associated with the application agent . In an aspect the processor component can be functionally coupled e.g. through a memory bus to the data store in order to store and retrieve information desired to operate and or confer functionality at least in part to communicator component aggregator component analyzer component etc. and or substantially any other operational aspects of the application agent .

The application management component also can contain an aggregator component that can aggregate data received e.g. obtained from various entities e.g. application application agent communication network UE processor data store etc. . The aggregator component can correlate respective items of data based at least in part on type of data e.g. content metadata etc. application to which the data relates source of the data time or date the data was generated or received etc. to facilitate analyzing of the data by an analyzer component . For example the aggregator component can aggregate data relating to the communication network to facilitate identifying a network congestion level and generating a network congestion indicator based at least in part on the identified network congestion level. As another example the aggregator component can aggregate data relating to an application and or other data e.g. data relating to the communication network to facilitate generating a mapping function comprising a mapping between application states and wireless states and or other factors or parameters.

The application management component can comprise the analyzer component which can analyze data to facilitate determining a current network congestion level or status of the communication network generating control information and or a network congestion indicator to facilitate setting or transitioning an application state of an application s and or generating a mapping function and associated mapping relating to an application etc. and can generate analysis results based at least in part on the data analysis. For example the analyzer component can analyze information relating to network communication conditions to facilitate identifying a network congestion level or state of the communication network.

The application management component can include a selector component that can select items of data e.g. data relating to the communication network data relating to an application etc. an applicable algorithm e.g. a mapping algorithm a state transition algorithm etc. parameter values or other information to facilitate performing one or more functions relating to controlling application states of applications associated with the application management component . For example the selector component can select a mapping function relating to the application information relating to network congestion level information indicating a current application state of the application and or other information to facilitate determining an application state to which the application is to be set and or whether the application state of the application is to be changed.

In some implementations the application management component can include a mapper component that can generate or receive a mapping function that can be used in relation to an application to facilitate controlling switching of the application between available application states. In some implementations the mapper component can obtain information relating to available applications states of an application performance indicators associated with the application categorization or characteristics associated with the application wireless states of the communication network network policies and or user policies etc. and can generate a mapping function associated with the application based at least in part on such information. In accordance with various embodiments the application management component and or the application agent can generate a mapping function for an application. When the application management component generates a mapping function the communicator component can communicate the mapping function to the application agent associated with the application.

The application management component can comprise an application controller component that can facilitate controlling and or scheduling transitions between application states or maintain an application state for an application based at least in part on information relating to network conditions e.g. network congestion level or status . The application controller component can identify or determine or can receive information indicating a network congestion level or status of the communication network and can generate a network congestion indicator and or other control information based at least in part on the network congestion level or status. The communicator component can transmit the network congestion indicator and or other control information to the application agent s associated with the application s to facilitate controlling the application state s of the application s .

The application management component can contain a certification component that can certify and or register an application as a qualified application for example when such application meets one or more applicable criterion e.g. defined certification criterion s and or defined application control criterion s for qualifying the application to be certified e.g. as an intelligent application . An application can be a qualified application for example if the application is able to transition between different application states e.g. active state doze state etc. is configured to or is associated with an application agent configured to comport with network specifications regarding application state transitions in relation to wireless state transitions is configured to or is associated with an application agent configured to use SDKs and or APIs specified by the application management component and or communication network and or other qualifications as specified by the application management component and or communication network.

In some implementations the application management component can include a resource probe component that can provide one or more resource probes such as radio resource probes or sensors to an application agent or application. An application agent associated with an application can use the one or more resource probes or sensors to monitor communication conditions associated with the communication network a UE or server associated with an application etc. as more fully disclosed herein.

In certain implementations the application management component can contain an SDK API component that can provide one or more SDKs or APIs to an application agent or application in relation to managing transitioning applications between application states. The one or more SDKs or APIs can facilitate enabling the application agent to obtain information relating to communication network conditions identify information in the lower layers of the traffic flow coordinating or controlling operation of the application in accordance with communication network standards relating to qualified e.g. intelligent applications e.g. communication network policies applicable to an application certified as a qualified application etc. as described herein. In some implementations the SDK API component also can make APIs and or SDKs available to application developers to enable application developers to be aware of the underlined network states.

In another aspect the application management component can comprise a processor component that can work in conjunction with the other components e.g. communicator component aggregator component analyzer component etc. to facilitate performing the various functions of the application management component . The processor component can employ one or more processors microprocessors or controllers that can process data such as information relating to applications the communication network and or other information etc. to facilitate operation of the application management component as more fully disclosed herein and control data flow between the application management component and other components e.g. application agent application communication network base station server UE etc. associated with the application management component .

The application management component also can include a data store that can store data structures e.g. user data metadata code structure s e.g. modules objects hashes classes procedures or instructions information relating to applications the communication network defined application control criteria and corresponding defined application control rules defined certification criteria SDKs APIs etc. to facilitate controlling operations associated with the application management component and or controlling application states or operation of applications associated with the communication network. The processor component can be functionally coupled e.g. through a memory bus to the data store in order to store and retrieve information desired to operate and or confer functionality at least in part to the communicator component aggregator component analyzer component etc. and or substantially any other operational aspects of the application management component .

In another aspect the UE can include a multimode operation chipset s that can allow the UE to operate in multiple communication modes in accordance with disparate technical specification for wireless technologies. In an aspect multimode operation chipset s can utilize communication platform in accordance with a specific mode of operation e.g. voice GPS . In another aspect multimode operation chipset s can be scheduled to operate concurrently e.g. when Q 1 in various modes or within a multitask paradigm.

In some implementations the UE can comprise e.g. optionally one or more applications that can include or provide respective application functions based at least in part on the type of application. In accordance with various implementations all or a portion of an application or that application s functionality can reside on the UE and or all or a portion of that application or its functionality can reside on another device e.g. another communication device a communication device located in or associated with a cloud etc. associated with the communication network.

In certain implementations the UE can contain e.g. optionally an application agent that can perform various functions and operations to facilitate controlling switching of application states based at least in part on a mapping function associated with an application and information relating to communication conditions associated with the communication network and or UE associated with the application as more fully disclosed herein. In accordance with various implementations an application agent can reside on the UE and or in another location e.g. in the cloud in the communication network in a base station etc. based at least in part on the type of application type of UE number of potential concurrent users of an application etc.

In still another aspect the UE also can include a processor s that can be configured to confer functionality at least in part to substantially any electronic component within the UE in accordance with aspects of the disclosed subject matter. For example the processor s can facilitate enabling the UE to process data e.g. symbols bits or chips for multiplexing demultiplexing modulation demodulation such as implementing direct and inverse fast Fourier transforms selection of modulation rates selection of data packet formats inter packet times etc. As another example the processor s can facilitate enabling the UE to process data relating to messaging voice calls or other services e.g. Internet services or access services related to applications etc. .

The UE also can contain a data store that can store data structures e.g. user data metadata code structure s e.g. modules objects classes procedures or instructions message hashes information relating to applications or application agents the communication network or other aspects associated with the UE user policies network or device information like policies and specifications attachment protocols code sequences for scrambling spreading and pilot e.g. reference signal s transmission frequency offsets cell IDs encoding algorithms compression algorithms decoding algorithms decompression algorithms and so on. In an aspect the processor s can be functionally coupled e.g. through a memory bus to the data store in order to store and retrieve information e.g. mapping functions application related information network related information e.g. network congestion indicator or status information relating to communication conditions of the communication network etc. frequency offsets desired algorithms etc. desired to operate and or confer functionality at least in part to communication platform multimode operation chipset s application s and or application agent and or substantially any other operational aspects of the UE .

In an aspect coupled to receiver transmitter can be a multiplexer demultiplexer mux demux that can facilitate manipulation of signal in time and frequency space. The mux demux can multiplex information e.g. data traffic and control signaling according to various multiplexing schemes such as for example time division multiplexing TDM frequency division multiplexing FDM orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM code division multiplexing CDM space division multiplexing SDM etc. In addition mux demux component can scramble and spread information e.g. codes according to substantially any code known in the art e.g. Hadamard Walsh codes Baker codes Kasami codes polyphase codes and so on. A modulator demodulator mod demod also can be part of the communication platform and can modulate information according to multiple modulation techniques such as frequency modulation amplitude modulation e.g. M ary quadrature amplitude modulation QAM with M a positive integer phase shift keying PSK and the like.

In some implementations the AP can include e.g. optionally an application agent that can perform various functions and operations to facilitate controlling switching of application states based at least in part on a mapping function associated with an application and information relating to communication conditions associated with the communication network and or UE associated with the application as more fully disclosed herein. In accordance with various implementations an application agent can reside on the AP and or in another location e.g. in the cloud in the communication network in a UE etc. based at least in part on the type of application type of AP type of UE number of potential concurrent users of an application etc.

The AP also can comprise a processor s that can be configured to confer and or facilitate providing functionality at least partially to substantially any electronic component in or associated with the AP . For instance the processor s can facilitate operations on data e.g. symbols bits or chips for multiplexing demultiplexing modulation demodulation such as effecting direct and inverse fast Fourier transforms selection of modulation rates selection of data packet formats inter packet times etc. The processor s also can facilitate performing other operations and or functions on data such as for example performing various operations and or functions to facilitate controlling switching of application states based at least in part on a mapping function associated with an application and information relating to communication conditions associated with the communication network and or UE associated with the application.

In another aspect the AP can include a data store that can store data structures code instructions rate coding information information relating to measurement of radio link quality or reception of information related thereto information relating to establishing a communications connection between a communication device e.g. UE and other communication devices system or device information like policies and specifications code sequences for scrambling spreading and pilot transmission floor plan configuration access point deployment and frequency plans scheduling policies and so on. The processor s can be coupled to the data store in order to store and retrieve information e.g. a desired algorithm e.g. mapping algorithm mapping function associated with an application information relating to multiplexing demultiplexing or modulation demodulation information relating to radio link levels information relating to establishing communication connections associated with a UE s served by the AP etc. desired to operate and or confer functionality to the communication platform and or other operational components of AP .

The aforementioned systems and or devices have been described with respect to interaction between several components. It should be appreciated that such systems and components can include those components or sub components specified therein some of the specified components or sub components and or additional components. Sub components could also be implemented as components communicatively coupled to other components rather than included within parent components. Further yet one or more components and or sub components may be combined into a single component providing aggregate functionality. The components may also interact with one or more other components not specifically described herein for the sake of brevity but known by those of skill in the art.

In view of the example systems and or devices described herein example methods that can be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter can be further appreciated with reference to flowcharts in . For purposes of simplicity of explanation example methods disclosed herein are presented and described as a series of acts however it is to be understood and appreciated that the disclosed subject matter is not limited by the order of acts as some acts may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other acts from that shown and described herein. For example a method disclosed herein could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram. Moreover interaction diagram s may represent methods in accordance with the disclosed subject matter when disparate entities enact disparate portions of the methods. Furthermore not all illustrated acts may be required to implement a method in accordance with the subject specification. It should be further appreciated that the methods disclosed throughout the subject specification are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such methods to computers for execution by a processor or for storage in a memory.

At a mapping function associated with an application can be applied wherein the mapping function at least in part maps application states of the application to wireless e.g. radio communication states associated with a UE that can use the application in a communication network. The application or application management component can generate the mapping function associated with the application. The mapping function also can include a mapping of other factors parameters and or performance indicators e.g. KPIs in relation to the mapping of the application states to the wireless communication states. The application agent can apply the mapping function to facilitate controlling transitioning of the application between application states based at least in part the wireless communication state associated with the UE at a given time.

At the application state of the application can be controlled based at least in part on the mapping function. The application agent and or application management component can control the application state of the application based at least in part on the mapping function associated with the application.

For instance at certain times the network congestion level can reach a defined high threshold network congestion level which can be a network condition wherein it can be desirable to have qualified e.g. intelligent applications transition to a doze state e.g. when possible e.g. when in accordance with an application s mapping function . During those certain times the application management component can generate a network congestion indicator which can indicate that the network congestion level is at or above the defined high threshold network congestion level and when in accordance with respective mapping functions qualified applications associated with the communication network are to be switched to the doze state. The application agent s can receive the network congestion indicator and applying the respective mapping functions associated with the respective qualified applications the application agent s can transition at least some of the qualified applications to the doze state when in accordance with their respective mapping functions.

As another example multiple applications can be operating at the same time wherein a first application is in an active state and a second application is in a doze state. The wireless communication state associated with the multiple applications can be in an active or communication ready state e.g. FTCH or DCH . The application agent can detect that the wireless communication state is in an active or communication ready state and can determine that the second application is to be transitioned from the doze state to the active state based at least in part on the mapping function associated with the second application and the wireless communication state being in an active or communication ready state. The application agent can generate control information to facilitate switching the second application to the active state. The second application can transition from the doze state to the active state in response to the control information. As a result the first application and second application can both be in the active state and communicating e.g. transmitting receiving voice or data while the wireless communication state in the active or communication ready state. This can reduce signaling and switching involved in having the wireless communication channel be in an active or communication ready state while the first application is in the active state while the second application is in the doze state followed by the wireless communication channel switching to the idle state when the first application switches to the doze state followed by the wireless communication channel switching back into the active or communication ready state due to the second application switching from the doze state to the active state.

Referring next to depicted is a flow chart of another example method for controlling an application state of an application in accordance with various aspects and embodiments. In accordance with various aspects the method can be utilized by an application agent for example.

At a current network congestion level or status can be identified. The application agent can identify the current network congestion level or status based at least in part on a receive network congestion indicator and or network congestion related information detected by the application agent. At a wireless state associated with a UE can be identified wherein the UE can be associated with an application and the application agent. The application agent can identify the wireless state e.g. active or communication ready state such as for example FTCH or DCH idle state etc. associated with the UE.

At the current network congestion level or status and the wireless state associated with the UE can be analyzed in relation to a mapping function associated with the application. The application agent can analyze the current network congestion level or status and the wireless state associated with the UE and can apply the mapping function to such information. At a determination can be made regarding an application state to which the application is to be set based at least in part on the analysis results. The application agent can determine or identify which application state the application is to be set based at least in part on the mapping function the current network congestion level or status and the wireless state associated with the UE.

At an application state indicator can be generated based at least in part on the determined application state. The application agent can generate control information comprising the application state indicator wherein the application state indicator can be an indicator that is in accordance with the determined application state. For example a first or active application state indicator can indicate that the application is to be set to the active state and a second or doze application state indicator can indicate that the application is to be set to the doze state.

At the application state indicator can be transmitted to the application to facilitate controlling an application state of the application based at least in part on the application state indicator. The application agent can transmit the control information including the application state indicator to the application. The application can switch to a desired application state or can maintain the desired application state in accordance with the value e.g. first or active value or second or doze value of the application state indicator.

Turning to illustrated is a flow chart of still another example method for controlling an application state of an application in accordance with various aspects and embodiments. The method can be employed by an application management component for example.

At a network congestion level of the communication network can be identified e.g. by the application management component . At the network congestion level can be compared to a defined high e.g. maximum threshold network congestion level. The application management component can compare the identified network congestion level to the defined high threshold network congestion level.

At a determination can be made regarding whether the network congestion level is at or above the defined high threshold network congestion level. The application management component can determine whether the network congestion level is at or above the defined high threshold network congestion level to facilitate determining whether an application state of one or more applications is to be changed.

At a network congestion indicator which indicates the network congestion level is too high can be generated in response to determining that the network congestion level is at or above the defined high threshold network congestion level. The application management component can generate the network congestion indicator in response to the application management component determining that the network congestion level is at or above the defined high threshold network congestion level. If the application management component determines that the network congestion level is below the defined high threshold network congestion level the application management component can determine that no network congestion indicator is be generated or can generate a different network congestion indicator e.g. indicating the network congestion level is not too high .

At the network congestion indicator can be transmitted to one or more application agents associated with one or more applications to facilitate transitioning at least a portion of the one or more applications to a doze state. The application management component can transmit the network congestion indicator to one or more application agents wherein each application agent can be associated with one or more applications. The one or more application agents can receive the network congestion indicator and can analyze the network congestion indicator and or other factors or parameters and can apply a mapping function s associated with an application s to facilitate determining which applications are to be switched to or maintained in the doze state. It can be desirable to place the application in the doze state based on the network congestion indicator due to the network congestion level being too high and typically a significant portion of applications can be set to the doze state based at least in part on their respective mapping functions and the network congestion indicator. However for certain applications e.g. an application with a certain performance indicator s that indicates the application has time critical performance constraints at least at this time which makes it desirable to maintain the application in the active state based at least in part on the mapping function of such an application an application may still desire to be in an active state even when the network congestion indicator indicates the network congestion level is too high. In such instance that application can remain in the active state. As a result based at least in part on the network congestion indicator and the respective mapping functions of the one or more applications the one or more application agents can transition at least a portion of the one or more applications to the doze state.

At information indicating an application s qualifications to be certified as a qualified e.g. intelligent application can be received. The application management component can receive such information from an application and or an application agent associated with the application. The information can include for example information relating to available application states of the application information indicating whether the application and or the associated application agent will comply with applicable application control rules an SDK s and or an API s the application and or the associated application agent will provide information regarding its current application state when desired by the application management component and or other information that may be relevant to determining whether the application satisfies the defined certification criterion s .

At the received information can be evaluated e.g. compared in relation to the defined certification criterion s . The application management component can evaluate the received information in relation to the defined certification criterion s to determine whether the application qualifies to be certified as a qualified application.

At the application can be certified e.g. automatically as a qualified application in response to determining that the application meets the defined certification criterion s . The application management component can certify the application as a qualified application in response to determining that the application meets the defined certification criterion s . The application management component and the application agent associated with the application can exchange other information such as application control rules an SDK s an API s resource probes etc. which the application agent can use to facilitate controlling switching of application states of the application. In some implementations the SDK s or API s can be provided to the application agent wherein the application agent can use the SDK s or API s to facilitate certifying the application with the application management component. The application and or application agent also can provide the application management component with performance indicators e.g. KPIs or other information relating to operations characteristics and or categorization of the application. In accordance with various implementations the application agent and or application management component can generate a mapping function associated with the application as more fully disclosed herein.

In order to provide a context for the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter as well as the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable environment in which the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter may be implemented. While the subject matter has been described above in the general context of computer executable instructions of a computer program that runs on a computer and or computers those skilled in the art will recognize that this disclosure also can or may be implemented in combination with other program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks and or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the methods may be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor computer systems mini computing devices mainframe computers as well as personal computers hand held computing devices e.g. PDA phone electronic tablets or pads etc. microprocessor based or programmable consumer or industrial electronics and the like. The illustrated aspects may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. However some if not all aspects of this disclosure can be practiced on stand alone computers. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

With reference to a suitable environment for implementing various aspects of this disclosure includes a computer . The computer includes a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . It is to be appreciated that the computer can be used in connection with implementing one or more of the systems or components shown and described in connection with . The system bus couples system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit can be any of various available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multiprocessor architectures also can be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure s including the memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus or external bus and or a local bus using any variety of available bus architectures including but not limited to Industrial Standard Architecture ISA Micro Channel Architecture MSA Extended ISA EISA Intelligent Drive Electronics IDE VESA Local Bus VLB Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI Card Bus Universal Serial Bus USB Advanced Graphics Port AGP Personal Computer Memory Card International Association bus PCMCIA Firewire IEEE 1394 and Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI .

The system memory includes volatile memory and nonvolatile memory . The basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up is stored in nonvolatile memory . By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory or nonvolatile random access memory RAM e.g. ferroelectric RAM FeRAM . Volatile memory includes random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as static RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM direct Rambus RAM DRRAM direct Rambus dynamic RAM DRDRAM and Rambus dynamic RAM.

Computer also includes removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. illustrates for example a disk storage . Disk storage includes but is not limited to devices like a magnetic disk drive floppy disk drive tape drive Jaz drive Zip drive LS 100 drive flash memory card or memory stick. The disk storage also can include storage media separately or in combination with other storage media including but not limited to an optical disk drive such as a compact disk ROM device CD ROM CD recordable drive CD R Drive CD rewritable drive CD RW Drive or a digital versatile disk ROM drive DVD ROM . To facilitate connection of the disk storage devices to the system bus a removable or non removable interface is typically used such as interface .

A user enters commands or information into the computer through input device s . Input devices include but are not limited to a pointing device such as a mouse trackball stylus touch pad keyboard microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner TV tuner card digital camera digital video camera web camera and the like. These and other input devices connect to the processing unit through the system bus via interface port s . Interface port s include for example a serial port a parallel port a game port and a universal serial bus USB . Output device s use some of the same type of ports as input device s . Thus for example a USB port may be used to provide input to computer and to output information from computer to an output device . Output adapter is provided to illustrate that there are some output devices like monitors speakers and printers among other output devices which require special adapters. The output adapters include by way of illustration and not limitation video and sound cards that provide a means of connection between the output device and the system bus . It should be noted that other devices and or systems of devices provide both input and output capabilities such as remote computer s .

Computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as remote computer s . The remote computer s can be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a workstation a microprocessor based appliance a peer device or other common network node and the like and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to computer . For purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated with remote computer s . Remote computer s is logically connected to computer through a network interface and then physically connected via communication connection . Network interface encompasses wire and or wireless communication networks such as local area networks LAN wide area networks WAN cellular networks etc. LAN technologies include Fiber Distributed Data Interface FDDI Copper Distributed Data Interface CDDI Ethernet Token Ring and the like. WAN technologies include but are not limited to point to point links circuit switching networks like Integrated Services Digital Networks ISDN and variations thereon packet switching networks and Digital Subscriber Lines DSL .

Communication connection s refers to the hardware software employed to connect the network interface to the bus . While communication connection is shown for illustrative clarity inside computer it can also be external to computer . The hardware software necessary for connection to the network interface includes for exemplary purposes only internal and external technologies such as modems including regular telephone grade modems cable modems and DSL modems ISDN adapters and Ethernet cards.

The system includes a communication framework that can be employed to facilitate communications between the client s and the server s . The client s are operatively connected to one or more client data store s that can be employed to store information local to the client s . Similarly the server s are operatively connected to one or more server data store s that can be employed to store information local to the servers .

It is to be noted that aspects features and or advantages of the disclosed subject matter can be exploited in substantially any wireless telecommunication or radio technology e.g. Wi Fi Bluetooth Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX Enhanced General Packet Radio Service Enhanced GPRS Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE Third Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB 3GPP Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS High Speed Packet Access HSPA High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA GSM Global System for Mobile Communications EDGE Enhanced Data Rates for GSM Evolution Radio Access Network GERAN UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network UTRAN LTE Advanced LTE A etc. Additionally some or all of the aspects described herein can be exploited in legacy telecommunication technologies e.g. GSM. In addition mobile as well non mobile networks e.g. the Internet data service network such as Internet protocol television IPTV etc. can exploit aspects or features described herein.

Various aspects or features described herein can be implemented as a method apparatus system or article of manufacture using standard programming or engineering techniques. In addition various aspects or features disclosed in the subject specification can also be realized through program modules that implement at least one or more of the methods disclosed herein the program modules being stored in a memory and executed by at least a processor. Other combinations of hardware and software or hardware and firmware can enable or implement aspects described herein including disclosed method s . The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or storage media. For example computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical discs e.g. compact disc CD digital versatile disc DVD blu ray disc BD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . or the like.

As it is employed in the subject specification the term processor can refer to substantially any computing processing unit or device comprising but not limited to single core processors single processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors multi core processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors with hardware multithread technology parallel platforms and parallel platforms with distributed shared memory. Additionally a processor can refer to an integrated circuit an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a digital signal processor DSP a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic controller PLC a complex programmable logic device CPLD a discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. Further processors can exploit nano scale architectures such as but not limited to molecular and quantum dot based transistors switches and gates in order to optimize space usage or enhance performance of user equipment. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing processing units.

In the subject specification terms such as store storage data store data storage database and substantially any other information storage component relevant to operation and functionality of a component are utilized to refer to memory components entities embodied in a memory or components comprising a memory. It is to be appreciated that memory and or memory components described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory.

By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . Additionally the disclosed memory components of systems or methods herein are intended to comprise without being limited to comprising these and any other suitable types of memory.

As used in this application the terms component system platform framework layer interface agent and the like can refer to and or can include a computer related entity or an entity related to an operational machine with one or more specific functionalities. The entities disclosed herein can be either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

In another example respective components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems via the signal . As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry which is operated by a software or firmware application executed by a processor. In such a case the processor can be internal or external to the apparatus and can execute at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts wherein the electronic components can include a processor or other means to execute software or firmware that confers at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. In an aspect a component can emulate an electronic component via a virtual machine e.g. within a cloud computing system.

In addition the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. Moreover articles a and an as used in the subject specification and annexed drawings should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Moreover terms like user equipment UE mobile station mobile wireless device wireless communication device subscriber station subscriber equipment access terminal terminal handset and similar terminology are used herein to refer to a wireless device utilized by a subscriber or user of a wireless communication service to receive or convey data control voice video sound gaming or substantially any data stream or signaling stream. The foregoing terms are utilized interchangeably in the subject specification and related drawings. Likewise the terms access point AP base station Node B Evolved Node B eNode B or eNB Home Node B HNB home access point HAP and the like are utilized interchangeably in the subject application and refer to a wireless network component or appliance that serves and receives data control voice video sound gaming or substantially any data stream or signaling stream from a set of subscriber stations. Data and signaling streams can be packetized or frame based flows.

Furthermore the terms user subscriber customer consumer owner agent and the like are employed interchangeably throughout the subject specification unless context warrants particular distinction s among the terms. It should be appreciated that such terms can refer to human entities or automated components supported through artificial intelligence e.g. a capacity to make inference based on complex mathematical formalisms which can provide simulated vision sound recognition and so forth.

As used herein the terms example exemplary and or demonstrative are utilized to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. For the avoidance of doubt the subject matter disclosed herein is not limited by such examples. In addition any aspect or design described herein as an example exemplary and or demonstrative is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs nor is it meant to preclude equivalent exemplary structures and techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has contains and other similar words are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as an open transition word without precluding any additional or other elements.

It is to be appreciated and understood that components e.g. communication device UE AP communication network application application agent application management component etc. as described with regard to a particular system or method can include the same or similar functionality as respective components e.g. respectively named components or similarly named components as described with regard to other systems or methods disclosed herein.

What has been described above includes examples of systems and methods that provide advantages of the disclosed subject matter. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methods for purposes of describing the disclosed subject matter but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the disclosed subject matter are possible. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has possesses and the like are used in the detailed description claims appendices and drawings such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

