---

title: Hygiene tracking compliance
abstract: One or more techniques and/or systems are provided for personal tracking of hygiene compliance of a user. For example, a mobile device may host a tracking component (e.g., a personal hygiene compliance app deployed on a cell phone or tablet). The tracking component may be configured to establish a communication connection, such as a Bluetooth communication connect, with a hygiene device (e.g., a soap dispenser). The tracking component may generate either a hygiene compliance metric or a non-hygiene compliance metric based upon whether a dispense event notification, indicating compliance by the user with a hygiene opportunity, is received from the hygiene device. In this way, the user may personally track hygiene compliance information based upon automated communication signals shared between the mobile device and the hygiene device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09524632&OS=09524632&RS=09524632
owner: GOJO Industries, Inc.
number: 09524632
owner_city: Akron
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150310
---
This application is a non provisional filing of and claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 950 375 titled HYGIENE TRACKING COMPLIANCE and filed on Mar. 10 2014 which is incorporated herein by reference.

The instant application is generally directed towards systems and techniques for personal tracking of hygiene compliance. In particular a mobile device communicates with hygiene devices such as soap dispensers to obtain hygiene compliance information that is provided to a user through a personalized hygiene compliance tracking interface hosted on the mobile device.

Many locations such as hospitals factories restaurants homes etc. may implement various hygiene and or disease control policies. For example a hospital may set an 85 hygiene compliance standard for a surgery room. A hygiene opportunity may correspond to a situation or scenario where a person should perform a hygiene event such as using a hand sanitizer or washing their hands. Compliance with the hygiene opportunity may increase a current hygiene level while non compliance may decrease the current hygiene level. In an example of monitoring hygiene a hygiene dispenser may be monitored by measuring an amount of material such as soap lotion sanitizer etc. consumed or dispensed from the dispensing system. However greater utilization of the hygiene dispenser may not directly correlate to improved hygiene e.g. medical staff may inadvertently use the hygiene dispenser for relatively low transmission risk situations as opposed to relatively high transmission risk situations such as after touching a high transmission risk patient in a surgery room .

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Among other things one or more systems and or techniques for tracking hygiene compliance of a user are provided herein. In an example a user may be associated with a mobile device e.g. a nurse may carry a tablet a mobile phone or any other computing device while working at a hospital . The mobile device may host a personalized hygiene compliance tracking interface e.g. an app deployed on the mobile device through which the user may track personal hygiene compliance metrics and other hygiene related information e.g. a map of hygiene devices within the hospital compliance metrics of other hospital employees etc. . When the mobile device comes within communication range of a hygiene device e.g. a soap dispenser the mobile device may receive a connection request from the hygiene device. In an example the connection request may be received as one or more connectable advertising packets that are broadcast by the hygiene device utilizing a wireless protocol such as a Bluetooth protocol a radio frequency signal a Wi Fi signal a cellular signal etc. In another example the connection request may be broadcast from the mobile device to the hygiene device. In this way the mobile device and the hygiene device may establish a communication connection based upon the connection request e.g. a tracking component hosted by the mobile device may be configured to synchronize with the hygiene device over a Bluetooth connection .

In an example a user zone entry notification may be received from the hygiene device. The user zone entry notification may indicate that the mobile device is located within a hygiene zone associated with the hygiene device e.g. the soap dispenser may be located in a surgery room and the hygiene zone may be defined as comprising at least a portion of the surgery room . If the user activates the hygiene device e.g. the nurse dispenses soap from the soap dispenser to perform a hygiene event then the hygiene device may broadcast e.g. using the Bluetooth connection a dispense event notification that may be received by the mobile device. A hygiene compliance metric may be generated for the user. The hygiene compliance metric and or other information e.g. a hygiene compliance ratio corresponding to a ratio of hygiene compliance to hygiene non compliance of the user with respect to hygiene opportunities may be displayed through the personalized hygiene compliance tracking interface so that the user may personally track the user s hygiene compliance. If a dispense event notification is not received before expiration of a threshold time e.g. 15 minutes and or a user zone exit notification is received e.g. the nurse leaves the surgery room without using the soap dispenser then a hygiene non compliance metric may be generated. The hygiene non compliance metric and or other information may be displayed through the personalized hygiene compliance tracking interface. In this way a user may track personal hygiene compliance in real time based upon automated information communicated between the mobile device and hygiene devices.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are generally used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide an understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are illustrated in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

An embodiment of tracking hygiene compliance of a user is illustrated by an exemplary method of . At the method starts. At a connection request is received from a hygiene device. For example a doctor may have installed a personalized hygiene compliance tracking interface on a mobile device e.g. deployment of an app on a cell phone or tablet . When the doctor comes within communication range of the hygiene device such as a soap dispenser within a patient room the mobile device may receive the connection request. In an example the connection request is received as a wireless communication signal. For example the hygiene device may be configured to broadcast the connection request as connectable adverting packets e.g. adverts using a Bluetooth or other wireless protocol e.g. Wi Fi cellular communication a radio frequency etc. . In an example a connectable adverting packet comprises about 20 bytes of connection request information and may consume about 49 A at about 3V. Connectable advertising packets may be broadcast over one or more channels such as 3 channels having about 0.147 mW power consumption about 120 bytes second of connection request information and about 3.14 WH power. In an example a Bluetooth Core Specification e.g. version 4 may be used to provide the ability to operate for years on coin cell batteries a relatively low cost multi vendor operability enhanced range and or relatively low peak average and or idle mode power consumption. In this way the mobile device may receive the connection request from the hygiene device. In another example the connection request may be broadcast from the mobile device to the hygiene device.

At a communication connection e.g. a Bluetooth connection may be established between the mobile device and the hygiene device based upon the connection request. For example a two way wireless communication connection may be established. At a user zone entry notification may be received from the hygiene device. The user zone entry notification may indicate that the mobile device is located within a hygiene zone associated with the hygiene device e.g. the doctor may walk into a hygiene zone defined as at least a portion of the patient room . In an example a hygiene compliance opportunity alert may be provided such as through the personalized hygiene compliance tracking interface based upon the user zone entry notification. For example a visual notification may be displayed through the mobile device e.g. a visual indicator of the hygiene device may be displayed with a message that the user can comply with a hygiene opportunity by utilizing the hygiene device an audio notification may be provided through the mobile device a vibration notification may be provided through the mobile device etc. A zone entry metric may be generated for the user based upon the user zone entry notification. The zone entry metric may indicate that the user has an opportunity to comply with a hygiene opportunity by utilizing the hygiene device.

At responsive to receiving a dispense notification from the hygiene device e.g. an indication that the user complied with the hygiene opportunity by utilizing the hygiene device a hygiene compliance metric may be generated for the user. The hygiene compliance metric may indicate that the user complied with the hygiene opportunity. At responsive to not receiving a dispense notification before at least one of an expiration of a threshold time e.g. the doctor may be provided with a 10 minute limit within which to use the hygiene device after entering the hygiene zone or receiving a user zone exit notification e.g. the doctor leaves the hygiene zone without utilizing the hygiene dispenser a hygiene non compliance metric may be generated for the user. The hygiene non compliance metric may indicate that the user failed to comply with the hygiene opportunity. In this way the user may personally track hygiene compliance through the mobile device e.g. real time tracking through the personalized hygiene compliance tracking interface based upon automated information communicated between the mobile device and hygiene devices. In an example the hygiene compliance metric the hygiene non compliance metric a hygiene compliance ratio e.g. a ratio of hygiene compliance to hygiene non compliance and or a variety of other information e.g. a map populated with one or more hygiene device indicators that may indicate prior compliance and or non compliance associated with corresponding hygiene devices may be displayed through the personalized hygiene compliance tracking interface. In an example the hygiene compliance metric and or the hygiene non compliance metric may be provided to a second user e.g. a hygiene compliance manager for a hospital .

In an example the hygiene compliance metric and or the hygiene non compliance metric may be sent to a centralized processing device for community hygiene compliance aggregation e.g. aggregate with hygiene compliance information associated with other employees of the hospital . An aggregated community hygiene compliance metric may be received from the centralized process device. The aggregated community hygiene compliance metric may indicate how the user compares with other users with respect to hygiene compliance. The aggregated community hygiene compliance metric may be displayed through the personalized hygiene compliance tracking interface.

In an example the mobile device may utilize the communication connection to program and or reprogram the hygiene device. For example a programming instruction may be sent to the hygiene device. The programming instruction may specify a location of the hygiene device a hygiene zone definition of a hygiene zone for the hygiene device and or a variety of other information e.g. a new communication protocol to utilize a firmware update a new amount of material to dispense how to communicate an alert of an operational issue of the hygiene device such as a low battery issue or an empty refill container issue etc. . In this way hygiene devices may be wirelessly programmed from the mobile device. At the method ends.

In an example the personalized hygiene compliance tracking component may receive aggregated community hygiene compliance metrics associated with a community of users. For example the aggregated community hygiene compliance metrics may provide an evaluation of how the user compares with the community of users such as a comparison of hygiene compliance of the user with hygiene compliance of other users. The personalized hygiene compliance tracking component may display the aggregated community hygiene compliance metrics through the personalized hygiene compliance tracking interface . In this way the user may track hygiene information associated with the user and or other users in real time using the personalized hygiene compliance tracking interface .

An embodiment of tracking hygiene compliance of a user is illustrated by an exemplary method of . In an example a mobile device such as a smart phone associated with a user may host a hygiene app. The hygiene app may determine that the mobile device and user are in an unpaired unclean state where the mobile device is not paired with a hygiene device e.g. not paired with a Bluetooth module of a hygiene dispenser and the user is considered unclean.

When the mobile device enters a hygiene zone associated with a hygiene device then the hygiene app may determine that the mobile device and the user are in a paired unclean state . A timer may be started based upon the paired unclean state . If the timer reaches a first predetermined set point then a warning is triggered for the user e.g. the user may be alerted that the user may be determined as being non compliant with a hygiene opportunity to use the hygiene dispenser if the user does not use the hygiene dispenser within a set amount of time . If the timer reaches a second predetermined set point then a non compliance event is recorded as a hygiene non compliance metric. If the mobile device leaves the hygiene zone then the hygiene app may determine that the mobile device and the user are in the unpaired unclean state . If the mobile device receives a dispense event notification from the hygiene dispenser then the hygiene app may determine that the mobile device and the user are in the paired clean state . A second timer may be started based upon the paired clean state . If the second timer reaches a third predetermined set point then the hygiene app may determine that the mobile device and the user are in the paired unclean state . If the mobile device leaves the hygiene zone e.g. and the second timer has not yet reached the third predetermined set point then the hygiene app may determine that the mobile device and the user are in an unpaired clean state . If the mobile device receives a second dispense event notification from the hygiene dispenser then the second timer is reset.

While in the unpaired clean state the second timer is maintained. If the second timer reaches a predetermined set point a warning is triggered for the user and or the hygiene app determines that the mobile device and the user are in the unpaired unclean state . When the mobile device enters the hygiene zone then the hygiene app determines that the mobile device and the user are in the paired clean state without resetting the second timer. In this way the hygiene app may transition between various states for person hygiene compliance tracking by the user based upon locational rules and or temporal rules. Hosting the hygiene app on a mobile device e.g. an existing smartphone owned by the user which may comprise Bluetooth functionality capable of detecting and or communicating with a Bluetooth module embedded in a hygiene dispenser may mitigate the need for specialized equipment e.g. badges and or dedicates network equipment e.g. repeaters gateways etc. . The hygiene app may be used for hygiene compliance in hospitals long term care facilities home based care doctors offices rehab facilities and or a wide variety of other environments.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An example embodiment of a computer readable medium or a computer readable device is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium such as a CD R DVD R flash drive a platter of a hard disk drive etc. on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data such as binary data comprising at least one of a zero or a one in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In some embodiments the processor executable computer instructions are configured to perform a method such as at least some of the exemplary method of for example. In some embodiments the processor executable instructions are configured to implement a system such as at least some of the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media are devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing at least some of the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and or the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via a network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein. Also it will be understood that not all operations are necessary in some embodiments.

Further unless specified otherwise first second and or the like are not intended to imply a temporal aspect a spatial aspect an ordering etc. Rather such terms are merely used as identifiers names etc. for features elements items etc. For example a first object and a second object generally correspond to object A and object B or two different or two identical objects or the same object.

Moreover exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance illustration etc. and not necessarily as advantageous. As used herein or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . In addition a and an as used in this application are generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Also at least one of A and B and or the like generally means A or B or both A and B. Furthermore to the extent that includes having has with and or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising .

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application.

