---

title: Induction medium and methods for stem cell culture and therapy
abstract: Novel MSC stem-cell culture and therapy methods and culture medium compositions for the purpose of inducing, activating, or priming discrete uniform cell phenotypes to selectively promote or suppress inflammation and immunity, yielding polarized, primed, activated, or induced cells used in cell-based therapy.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09321994&OS=09321994&RS=09321994
owner: COMMENCE BIO, INC.
number: 09321994
owner_city: Sparks
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150522
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 14 504 399 filed Oct. 1 2014 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with United States government support under NIH 1R43AR061902 01 and 1P20RR20152 01 and Department of Defense 00073102 and 0C110218. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The invention provides novel stem cell culture and therapy methods and culture medium compositions for the purpose of inducing activating or priming discrete uniform cell phenotypes to selectively promote or suppress inflammation and immunity providing significant advantages over known culture media and methods yielding primed activated or induced cells used in cell based therapy. The invention can be used to provide more uniform and predictable ex vivo expanded and induced primed or activated populations of MSC stem cells which can be used for cell based therapy. There is a long felt need in the art for an improved method to provide a uniform and efficacious large number of stem cells required for cell based therapy. An advantage of the various embodiments of the invention is that they can be used to induce activate or prime cultures of multipotent stem cells into uniform and discrete phenotypes that behave in a predictable manner upon introduction into a patient.

There is a need for improved therapeutic methods and improved cell culture methods and media for inducing activating or priming uniform populations of MSCs stem cells mesenchymal stem cells marrow stromal cells multipotent stromal cells multipotent stem cells derived from various adult tissues. Clinical applications of MSCs require reproducible cell culture methods and cell expansion methods that provide adequate numbers of cells of suitable quality and consistent therapeutic benefits. Different culture media and methods have had varying degrees of success. There remains a need for further improvements to MSC culture media and methods that ensures expanded yields of primed activated or induced cells used in cell based therapy having safe and consistently reproducible therapeutic effects.

The potency or therapeutic benefit of induced activated or primed MSC over un induced conventional MSCs has been demonstrated in pre clinical models of disease. Anti inflammatory induced MSC therapy alleviated pain and inflammation in models of painful diabetic peripheral neuropathy rheumatoid arthritis inflammatory bowel disease and acute lung injury in a significantly improved manner over conventional MSC therapy. Additionally anti inflammatory induced MSC therapy improved clinical scores gait and motor function in a pre clinical model of multiple sclerosis EAE and Krabbe s disease. In a murine immune competent ovarian cancer model the pro immune anti tumor induced MSC cell based immunotherapy led to attenuation of tumor growth and spread whereas conventional MSC therapy promoted tumor growth and spread.

The stimulation of specific Toll like receptors TLRs affects the immune modulating responses of MSCs. Toll like receptors recognize danger signals and their activation leads to profound cellular and systemic responses that mobilize innate and adaptive host immune cells. The danger signals that trigger TLRs are released following most tissue pathologies. Since danger signals recruit immune cells to sites of injury the Inventor reasoned that MSCs might be recruited in a similar way. The Inventor observed that MSCs express several TLRs e.g. TLR3 and TLR4 known in the art and that their migration invasion and secretion of immune modulating factors is drastically affected by specific TLR agonist engagement. In particular the Inventor observed diverse consequences to the MSCs following stimulation of TLR3 when compared to TLR4 by a low level short term TLR priming protocol. Based on these findings the Inventor proposed a new paradigm for MSCs that took its cue from the monocyte literature. Specifically that MSCs can be polarized induced activated or primed by downstream TLR signaling into two homogenously acting phenotypes classified as MSC1 and MSC2. TLR4 primed MSCs or MSC1 mostly express pro immunity inflammatory mediators while TLR3 primed MSCs or MSC2 mostly express anti inflammatory or immunosuppressive ones. Additionally the Inventor demonstrated that allogeneic non self co cultures of TLR primed MSCs with peripheral blood mononuclear cells PBMCs predictably lead to suppressed T lymphocyte activation following MSC2 co culture and permissive T lymphocyte activation in co culture with MSC1. The induction of MSCs into the pro immune MSC1 phenotype by TLR4 activation or into the anti inflammatory MSC2 phenotype by TLR3 activation ensures uniform and defined cells that solves an industry hurdle by providing defined and predictable cells for use in cell based therapy applications.

Erythropoietin also known as EPO is a glycoprotein hormone that controls erythropoiesis or red blood cell production. It is a cytokine or cell signaling molecule for erythrocyte red blood cell precursors in the bone marrow. Human EPO has a molecular weight of 34 kDa and is also called hematopoietin or hemopoietin. EPO is produced by interstitial fibroblasts in the kidney in close association with peritubular capillary and tubular epithelial tubule and in perisinusoidal cells in the liver. While liver production predominates early in development fetal and perinatal period the kidney is the predominant EPO production site in adults. In addition to erythropoiesis erythropoietin also has other known biological functions. For example it plays an important role in the brain s response to neuronal injury by providing a pro survival anti apoptosis programmed cell death signal. EPO is also involved in the wound healing process. Synthetic erythropoietin is also produced by recombinant DNA technology in cell culture. Additionally several different pharmaceutical EPO like agents are available with a variety of glycosylation patterns and are collectively called erythropoiesis stimulating agents ESA . EPO is used in this invention as a means to prevent premature cell death and prolong survival of the yielded primed activated or induced cells used in cell based therapy.

Consistent oxygen supply is an important factor influencing all major aspects of cell biology including survival proliferation differentiation and migration. Typically mammalian cells not stem cells require a consistent supply of oxygen to maintain a robust energy production and to preserve normal cell function and cell survival. By contrast mammalian stem cells seem to thrive and persist in the hypoxic environment with oxygen tension ranging from 0.5 to 7 of the bone marrow. Several studies have shown that the hypoxic environment is required for maintaining the proliferation and self renewal capability of the stem cells in the bone marrow. Particularly the effects of reduced oxygen tension even after short term culture of MSCs has been described as a general method of improving their engraftment capability in cell based therapies. A hypoxic environment is used in this invention as a means to maintain the self renewal and proliferative potential of the yielded primed activated or induced cells used in cell based therapy.

For clear understanding terms are defined and preferred values are stated here and also throughout the text where necessary.

The term stem cell means a cell which is capable of giving rise to multiple different types of cells. The term mesenchymal stem cell or MSC means a stem cell originally derived from the mesenchyme. The term refers to a cell which is capable of differentiating into at least two or more of an osteoblast a chondrocyte an adipocyte or a myocyte. MSCs may be isolated from any type of adult tissue. Typically MSCs are isolated from bone marrow adipose tissue umbilical cord or peripheral blood. In a preferred aspect of the invention MSCs are obtained from bone marrow or lipoaspirates themselves obtained from adipose tissue.

The term multipotent and alternative term pluripotent mean a cell which is capable of giving rise to multiple types of cells of different tissue lineages.

The term cellular therapy or cell based therapy means the transplantation of human or animal cells to prevent treat or ameliorate one or more symptoms associated with a disease or disorder such as but not limited to the replacement or repair of damaged tissues or organs the modulation of immune reactions and the reduction of inflammatory symptoms and cancers.

The term subject refers to an animal preferably a mammal including non primates e.g. a cow pig horse cat dog rat or mouse or a primate e.g. a monkey or a human . In a preferred embodiment the subject is a human.

The terms treat treatment and treating when used directly in reference to a patient or subject mean the amelioration of one or more symptoms associated with a disorder including but not limited to an inflammatory disorder an autoimmune disease or an immunologically mediated disease including rejection of transplanted organs and tissues where the amelioration results from the administration of the immunomodulatory cells yielded by the invention or a pharmaceutical composition comprising immunomodulatory cells yielded by the invention to a subject in need of such treatment.

The terms repair and repairing when used directly in reference to damaged tissues means the amelioration of such damage by both direct mechanisms such as the regeneration of damaged tissues as well as through indirect mechanisms e.g. reducing inflammation thereby enabling tissue formation.

 Allogenic means from different individuals of the same species. When individuals possess genes that differ at one or more loci they are said to be allogenic. In contrast autologous means from the same individual.

The term immune disease refers to a condition in a subject characterized by cellular tissue and or organ injury caused by an immunological reaction of the subject.

The term autoimmune disease refers to a condition in a subject characterized by cellular tissue and or organ injury caused by an immunological reaction of the subject to its own cells tissues and or organs. Illustrative non limiting examples of autoimmune diseases which can be treated with the immunomodulatory cells yielded by the invention include alopecia areata ankylosing spondylitis antiphospholipid syndrome autoimmune Addison s disease autoimmune diseases of the adrenal gland autoimmune hemolytic anemia autoimmune hepatitis autoimmune oophoritis and orchitis autoimmune thrombocytopenia Behcet s disease bullous pemphigoid cardiomyopathy celiac sprue dermatitis chronic fatigue immune dysfunction syndrome CF1DS chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy Churg Strauss syndrome cicatrical pemphigoid CREST syndrome cold agglutinin disease discoid lupus essential mixed cryoglobulinemia fibromyalgia fibromyositis glomerulonephritis Graves disease Guillain Barre Hashimoto s thyroiditis idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis idiopathic thrombocytopenia purpura ITP IgA neuropathy juvenile arthritis lichen planus Meniere s disease mixed connective tissue disease multiple sclerosis type 1 or immune mediated diabetes mellitus myasthenia gravis pemphigus vulgaris pernicious anemia polyarteritis nodosa polychondritis polyglandular syndromes polymyalgia rheumatica polymyositis and dermatomyositis primary agammaglobulinemia primary biliary cirrhosis psoriasis psoriatic arthritis Raynauld s phenomenon Reiter s syndrome sarcoidosis scleroderma progressive systemic sclerosis Sjogren s syndrome Good pasture s syndrome stiff man syndrome systemic lupus erythematosus lupus erythematosus takayasu arteritis temporal arteristis giant cell arteritis ulcerative colitis uveitis vasculitides such as dermatitis herpetiformis vasculitis vitiligo Wegener s granulomatosis Anti Glomerular Basement Membrane Disease Antiphospholipid Syndrome Autoimmune Diseases of the Nervous System Familial Mediterranean Fever Lambert Eaton Myasthenic Syndrome Sympathetic Ophthalmia Polyendocrinopathies Psoriasis etc.

 Immune mediated inflammatory disease means any disease characterized by chronic or acute inflammation resulting from associated with or triggered by a dysregulation of the normal immune response e.g. Crohn s disease type 1 diabetes mellitus rheumatoid arthritis inflammatory bowel disease psoriasis psoriatic arthritis ankylosing spondylitis systemic lupus erythematosus Hashimoto s disease graft versus host disease Sjogren s syndrome pernicious anemia Addison disease scleroderma Goodpasture s syndrome ulcerative colitis autoimmune hemolytic anemia sterility myasthenia gravis multiple sclerosis Basedow s disease thrombopenia purpura Guillain Barre syndrome allergy asthma atopic disease arteriosclerosis myocarditis cardiomyopathy glomerular nephritis hypoplastic anemia and rejection after organ transplantation.

The term immunomodulatory refers to the modification amplification inhibition or reduction of one or more biological activities of the immune system which includes but is not limited to downregulation of immune response augmentation of immune responses and changes of the inflammatory states mediated by changes in cytokine profile cytotoxic activity and antibody production and their effects on immune and immune related cells.

The term inflammatory disorders refers to a condition in a subject characterized by inflammation e.g. chronic inflammation. Illustrative non limiting examples of inflammatory disorders include but are not limited to Celiac Disease rheumatoid arthritis RA Inflammatory Bowel Disease IBD asthma encephalitis chronic obstructive pulmonary disease COPD inflammatory osteolysis allergic disorders septic shock pulmonary fibrosis e.g. idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis inflammatory vacultides e.g. polyarteritis nodosa Wegner s granulomatosis Takayasu s arteritis temporal arteritis and lymphomatoid granulomatosus post traumatic vascular angioplasty e.g. restenosis after angioplasty undifferentiated spondyloarthropathy undifferentiated arthropathy arthritis inflammatory osteolysis chronic hepatitis and chronic inflammation resulting from chronic viral or bacteria infections.

 Isolated cell population means a cell population isolated from the human or animal body which is substantially free of one or more other cell populations that are normally associated with the cell population in vivo or in vitro.

The term ligand inducer means an agent or agents that result in increased production of such a ligand. A ligand inducer for a Toll like receptor TLR ligand will yield increased TLR ligand and is therefore essentially equivalent to the TLR ligand itself.

The term MHC major histocompatibility complex refers to a subset of genes that encode cell surface antigen presenting proteins. In humans these genes are referred to as human leukocyte antigen HLA genes. The abbreviations MHC or HLA are used interchangeably.

The term population of cells means any number of cells greater than 1 but is preferably at least 1 10cells at least 1 10cells at least 1 10cells at least 1 106 cells at least 1 10cells at least 1 10cells or at least 1 10cells.

In preferred embodiments of this invention at least 50 at least 55 at least 60 at least 65 at least 70 at least 75 at least 80 at least 85 at least 90 at least 91 at least 92 at least 93 at least 94 or at least 95 of the stem cells by cell number in an initial cell population will be undifferentiated MSCs.

The term significant expression or its equivalent terms positive and when used regarding a cell surface marker means that in a cell population more than 20 preferably more than 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 95 98 99 or even 100 of the cells express the cell surface marker.

Expression of cell surface markers may be determined for example by means of flow cytometry for a specific cell surface marker using conventional methods and apparatus for example a BECKMAN COULTER EPICS XL FACS system used with commercially available antibodies and standard protocols known in the art that show a signal for a specific cell surface marker in flow cytometry above the background signal using conventional methods and apparatus. The background signal is defined as the signal intensity given by a non specific antibody of the same isotype as the specific antibody used to detect each surface marker in conventional FACS analysis. For a marker to be considered positive the specific signal observed is stronger than 20 preferably stronger than 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 500 1000 5000 10000 or above than the background signal intensity using conventional methods and apparatus. Furthermore commercially available and known monoclonal antibodies against said cell surface markers e.g. cellular receptors and transmembrane proteins can be used to identify relevant cells.

Practice of the invention employs except for the invention itself conventional techniques of cell culture molecular biology and microbiology which are within the skill of those working in the art.

The invention provides an inducing activating or priming culture induction medium for a population of multipotent stem cells MSCs comprising a Toll like receptor TLR ligand or TLR ligand inducer in combination with erythropoietin EPO and with exposure to hypoxia preferably 0.5 2 oxygen or hypoxia mimetic preferably cobalt chloride or desferrioxamine plus additional standard components of cell culture media known in the art and described here.

The invention also provides a culture medium induction supplement comprising a Toll like receptor TLR ligand or TLR ligand inducer in combination with erythropoietin EPO and with exposure to hypoxia or hypoxia mimetic which can be added to other existing culture media. Such a supplement might be appropriate where unusual components or concentrations of other components are appropriate for certain circumstances.

The invention also provides a hermetically sealed culture vessel containing the culture induction medium or culture medium induction supplement of the invention.

The invention also provides a method for preparing a culture induction medium as disclosed herein comprising the steps of a obtaining a culture medium and b adding a Toll like receptor TLR ligand or TLR ligand inducer in combination with erythropoietin EPO and with exposure to hypoxia 0.5 2 oxygen or hypoxia mimetic cobalt chloride or desferrioxamine to the culture medium.

The invention also provides a composition comprising a a culture medium according to the invention and b stem cells.

The invention also provides a composition containing a a culture medium according to the invention and b a solid surface.

The invention also provides the use of a culture medium of the invention for inducing activating or priming a population of multipotent stem cells.

The invention also provides an ex vivo method for inducing activating or priming a population of multipotent stem cells comprising a providing a population of multipotent stem cells b providing a culture medium of the invention c contacting the stem cells with the culture medium and d culturing the cells under appropriate conditions.

In one aspect the invention provides the use of a Toll like receptor TLR ligand or TLR ligand inducer in combination with erythropoietin and with exposure to hypoxia 0.5 2 oxygen or hypoxia mimetic cobalt chloride or desferrioxamine in the manufacture of a cellular therapy medicament. Accordingly in one embodiment the invention also provides a method of manufacture of a cellular therapy medicament comprising a providing a population of multipotent stem cells b providing a culture medium of the invention c contacting the stem cells with the culture medium and d culturing the cells under appropriate conditions. The invention also provides the use of a composition comprising a a culture medium according to the invention and b stem cells for manufacturing a cellular therapy medicament. The invention also provides the use of a composition comprising a a culture medium according to the invention and b a solid surface for manufacturing a cellular therapy medicament.

Said medicaments are of use in the treatment repair prophylaxis and or amelioration of damaged tissues or one or more symptoms associated with inflammatory and or immune disorders such as but not limited to autoimmune diseases inflammatory disorders and immunologically mediated diseases including rejection of transplanted organs and tissues and cancer are we including cancer in this . A cellular therapy medicament of the invention comprises a prophylactically or therapeutically effective amount of stem cells and a pharmaceutical carrier. Particularly preferred are stem cells of mesenchymal origin most preferably bone marrow derived stem cells. Examples of dosages and dosage regimens for each of these cell types are known in the art. Suitable pharmaceutical carriers are known in the art and are preferably those approved by a regulatory agency of the US Federal or a state government or listed in the U S Pharmacopeia or European Pharmacopeia or other generally recognized pharmacopeia for use in animals and more particularly in humans. The term carrier refers to a diluent adjuvant excipient or vehicle with which the therapeutic agent is administered. The composition if desired can also contain minor amounts of pH buffering agents. Examples of suitable pharmaceutical carriers are described in Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences by E W Martin. Such compositions will contain a prophylactically or therapeutically effective amount of a prophylactic or therapeutic agent preferably in purified form together with a suitable amount of carrier so as to provide the form for proper administration to the subject. The formulation should suit the mode of administration. In a preferred embodiment the medicaments are sterile and in suitable form for administration to a subject preferably an animal subject more preferably a mammalian subject and most preferably a human subject.

The medicament of the invention may be in a variety of forms. These include for example semi solid and liquid dosage forms such as lyophilized preparations liquid solutions or suspensions injectable and infusible solutions etc. the medicament is preferably injectable.

It is preferred that the medicaments are for treating or repairing damaged tissue preferably mesenchymal tissue and or for the treatment modulation prophylaxis and or amelioration of one or more symptoms associated with inflammatory and or immune disorders. Accordingly the methods and cells of the invention are of use in the treatment of any disorder characterized by either or all of said symptoms. A representative non exhaustive list of such disorders is provided in the definitions section. Particularly preferred is a medicament for the treatment of immune mediated inflammatory diseases. Further preferred is a medicament for the treatment of diabetes mellitus rheumatoid arthritis RA inflammatory bowel disease IBD including Crohn s disease and or Ulcerative Colitis and multiple sclerosis MS . The invention also provides the use of a Toll like receptor TLR ligand or TLR ligand inducer in combination with erythropoietin and with exposure to hypoxia 0.5 2 oxygen or hypoxia mimetic cobalt chloride or desferrioxamine for multipotent stem cell culture.

The specific ingredients and ratio of ingredients of the culture media supplements and compositions of the invention can vary according to particular needs and applications. Likewise the precise steps of the methods of the invention can vary according to particular needs and applications. The culture media supplements methods compositions and uses according to this invention may be optimised by routine experimentation. For example if a desired outcome is an anti inflammatory therapeutic effect if a culture medium supplement or composition will specifically contain a TLR3 ligand or TLR ligand inducer in combination with erythropoietin and with exposure to hypoxia 0.5 2 oxygen or hypoxia mimetic cobalt chloride or desferrioxamine by contrast if a desired outcome is a pro immune therapeutic effect if a culture medium supplement or composition will specifically contain a TLR4 ligand or TLR ligand inducer in combination with erythropoietin and with exposure to hypoxia 0.52 oxygen or hypoxia mimetic cobalt chloride or desferrioxamine . The amount of each of the ingredients described herein can be optimised independently of the other ingredients by routine optimisation or one or more ingredients can be added or removed. A culture medium can be tested for its ability to support induction activation or priming of multipotent stem cells by testing it alongside or in place of a known culture medium or method. The culture media supplements methods compositions and uses of the invention are described in more detail below.

All publications patents and patent applications mentioned in this specification are herein incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each individual publication patent or patent application was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.

The induction media of the invention comprises a Toll like receptor TLR ligand or TLR ligand inducer in combination with erythropoietin and with exposure to hypoxia 0.5 2 oxygen or hypoxia mimetic cobalt chloride or desferrioxamine . In one aspect the induction media of the invention comprises a Toll like receptor TLR ligand or TLR ligand inducer. In an alternative aspect the induction media of the invention comprises erythropoietin and exposure to hypoxia 0.5 2 oxygen or hypoxia mimetic cobalt chloride or desferrioxamine . In a further aspect the induction media of the invention comprises a Toll like receptor TLR ligand or TLR ligand inducer in combination with erythropoietin and with exposure to hypoxia 0.5 2 oxygen or hypoxia mimetic cobalt chloride or desferrioxamine .

The induction media of the invention may comprise two or more three or more 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 or more combinations of a Toll like receptor TLR ligand or TLR ligand inducer in combination with erythropoietin EPO and with exposure to hypoxia 0.5 2 oxygen or hypoxia mimetic cobalt chloride or desferrioxamine .

An induction medium of the invention may comprise between about 0.10 picomolar pM and about 100 millimolar mM of a TLR ligand or TLR ligand inducer in combination with about 0.5 mU mL and about 50 mU mL erythropoietin EPO and with exposure to about 0.5 to about 2 oxygen conditions hypoxia or hypoxia mimetic such as cobalt chloride or desferrioxamine at a concentration of about 10 micromolar to about 1 mM or any other combination of the above TLR ligand or TLR ligand inducer erythropoietin and hypoxia.

Cell induction media typically contain a large number of ingredients which are necessary to support maintenance of the cultured cells. An induction medium of the invention will therefore normally contain many other ingredients in addition to a Toll like receptor TLR ligand or TLR ligand inducer in combination with erythropoietin and with exposure to hypoxia 0.52 oxygen or hypoxia mimetic cobalt chloride or desferrioxamine . Suitable combinations of ingredients can readily be formulated by the skilled person taking into account the following disclosure. An induction medium according to the invention will generally be a nutrient solution comprising standard cell culture ingredients such as amino acids vitamins trace metals inorganic salts a carbon energy source and a buffer as described in more detail below.

An induction medium of the invention may contain serum. Serum contains cellular and non cellular factors and components that may be necessary for viability and expansion. Serum obtained from any appropriate source may be used including fetal bovine serum FBS bovine serum BS calf serum CS fetal calf serum FCS newborn calf serum NCS goat serum GS horse serum HS porcine serum sheep serum rabbit serum rat serum RS etc. It is also within the scope of the invention that if said MSC are of human origin the cell induction medium is supplemented with a human serum preferably of autologous origin. It is understood that sera can be heat inactivated at 55 65 deg. C if deemed necessary to inactivate components of the complement cascade. Where a serum replacement is used it may be used at between about 2 and about 40 by volume of the medium according to conventional techniques.

In other embodiments an induction medium of the invention may contain a serum replacement. Various different serum replacement formulations are commercially available and are known to the skilled person such as but not limited to serum albumin serum transferrin selenium and recombinant proteins including but not limited to insulin platelet derived growth factor PDGF and basic fibroblast growth factor bFGF . Where a serum replacement is used it may be used at between about 2 and about 40 by volume of the medium according to conventional techniques. In other embodiments an induction medium of the invention may be serum free and or serum replacement free. A serum free medium is one that contains no animal serum of any type. Serum free media may be preferred to avoid possible xeno contamination of the stem cells. A serum replacement free medium is one that has not been supplemented with any commercial serum replacement formulation.

An induction medium of the invention will normally be formulated in deionized distilled water. An induction medium of the invention will typically be sterilized prior to use to prevent contamination e.g. by ultraviolet light heating irradiation or filtration. The induction medium may be frozen e.g. at 20 C. or 80 C. for storage or transport. Antimicrobial agents are also typically used in media to mitigate bacterial mycoplasmal and fungal contamination. The medium may contain one or more antimicrobial agents or antibiotics to prevent contamination. Typically antibiotics or anti mycotic compounds used are mixtures of penicillin streptomycin but can also include but are not limited to amphotericin Fungizone ampicilhn gentamicin bleomycin hygromacin kanamycin mitomycin etc.

In one embodiment of the invention the culture medium is a medium that has been conditioned by the addition of cells induced by a Toll like receptor TLR ligand or TLR ligand inducer in combination with erythropoietin and with exposure to hypoxia 0.5 2 oxygen or hypoxia mimetic cobalt chloride or desferrioxamine . Conditioned medium is produced by culturing a population of said cells in a induction medium for a time sufficient to condition the medium then harvesting the conditioned medium. Where a conditioned medium is used the medium may be conditioned on mammalian cells e.g. mouse cells or human cells. Various different types of mammalian cells may be used to produce conditioned medium suitable for multipotent stem cell induction.

An induction medium may be a 1 formulation or a concentrated formulation e.g. a 2 to 250 concentrated medium formulation. In a 1 formulation each ingredient in the medium is at the concentration intended for cell induction. In a concentrated formulation one or more of the ingredients is present at a higher concentration than intended for cell induction. Induction medium can be concentrated using known methods e.g. salt precipitation or selective filtration. A concentrated medium may be diluted for use with water preferably deionized and distilled or any appropriate solution e.g. an aqueous saline solution an aqueous buffer or a culture medium.

An induction medium as disclosed herein may be capable of inducing activating or priming a population of stem cells in a multipotent undifferentiated and proliferative state for only a single passage or population doubling under appropriate conditions. Stem cells are considered to be in a multipotent undifferentiated and proliferative state if they exhibit certain characteristics as described in more detail elsewhere herein. Appropriate conditions can be selected by the skilled person from those normally used for multipotent stem cell culture.

As noted elsewhere herein the invention also provides a hermetically sealed vessel containing an induction medium of the invention. Hermetically sealed vessels may be preferred for transport or storage of the induction media to prevent contamination. The vessel may be any suitable vessel such as a bioreactor a flask a plate a bottle a jar a vial or a bag. As noted elsewhere herein the invention also provides a method for preparing an induction medium comprising the steps of a obtaining a culture medium and b adding a Toll like receptor TLR ligand or TLR ligand inducer in combination with erythropoietin EPO and with exposure to hypoxia 0.5 2 oxygen or hypoxia mimetic cobalt chloride or desferrioxamine to the culture medium. Various different methods for preparing induction media are envisaged depending on the specific ingredients to be included in the induction medium. For example a method for preparing a induction medium may comprise the steps of a obtaining a culture medium and b adding a TLR ligand or TLR ligand inducer in combination with erythropoietin EPO and with exposure to hypoxia 0.5 2 oxygen or hypoxia mimetic cobalt chloride or desferrioxamine to the culture medium. In one embodiment a method for preparing an induction medium may comprise the steps of a obtaining a culture medium and b adding a TLR ligand EPO and cobalt chloride to the culture medium.

The induction media of the invention can be used to induce activate or prime a population of multipotent stem cells. Accordingly the invention provides the use of any induction medium as disclosed herein for inducing activating or priming a population of multipotent stem cells into discrete uniform phenotypes for cell based therapy.

The invention also provides an ex vivo method for inducing activating or priming a population of multipotent stem cells comprising a providing a population of multipotent stem cells b providing a induction medium as disclosed herein c contacting the stem cells with the induction medium and d culturing the stem cells under appropriate conditions.

The invention also provides a method cellular therapy comprising a providing a population of multipotent stem cells b providing an induction medium of the invention c contacting the stem cell population with the induction medium and d culturing the cells under appropriate conditions.

The methods of the invention may comprise culturing the cells in contact with a solid surface as described elsewhere herein. For example the invention provides a method comprising a providing a population of multipotent stem cells b providing an induction medium as disclosed herein c contacting the stem cells with the induction medium and d culturing the cells under appropriate conditions and in contact with a solid surface. The invention also provides the use of an induction medium as disclosed herein and a solid surface to expand a population of multipotent stem cells. The multipotent stem cells may adhere attach or be seeded onto said support. Typically the cells are plated at a desired density such as between about 100 cells cm2 to about 100 000 cells cm2 such as about 500 cells cm2 to about 50 000 cells cm2 or more particularly between about 1 000 cells cm2 to about 20 000 cells cm2 prior to inducing activating or priming of the stem cells. In a particular embodiment the cell density is between 200 10 000 cells cm2.

It will be appreciated that the steps of the methods disclosed herein can be performed in any suitable order or at the same time as appropriate and need not be performed in the order in which they are listed. For example in the above method the step of providing a population of multipotent stem cells may be performed before after or at the same time as the step of providing an induction medium.

The methods and uses of the invention may involve any induction medium or supplement as described herein. Accordingly in some embodiments the methods of the invention may be serum and or serum replacement free methods. In some embodiments the methods of the invention may be used to induce cells in the absence of contact with a layer of feeder cells.

The preferred methods and uses of the invention are for the inducing activating or priming of the population of multipotent stem cells to occur once the cells have been expanded and prior to being cryopreserved and used in cell based therapy.

It is preferred that said stem cell population is of adult origin and it is further preferred that said cells are a mesenchymal stem cell population as in bone marrow derived or adipose tissue derived cells.

Conditions for the culture of stem cells are known to the person skilled in the art. It is preferred that the culture is carried out in the presence of a solid support suitable for the adherence of mesenchymal stem cells.

Said method of manufacture may optionally further comprise the steps of a passaging the cells into a culture medium as disclosed herein b further culturing the cells under appropriate conditions and c inducing activating or priming the cells.

It has been shown that ex vivo expansion of the MSC without inducing differentiation can be accomplished for extended time periods for example by using specially screened lots of suitable serum such as fetal bovine serum or human serum . Methods for measuring viability and yield are known in the art e.g. trypan blue exclusion .

Any of the steps and procedures for isolating the cells of the cell population of the invention can be performed manually if desired. Alternatively the process of isolating such cells can be facilitated and or automated through one or more suitable devices examples of which are known in the art.

Practice of the invention may be performed using any suitable cell culture vessel as a support. Cell culture vessels of various shapes and sizes e.g. flasks single or multiwell plates single or multiwell dishes bottles jars vials bags bioreactors and constructed from various different materials e.g. plastic glass are known in the art. A suitable cell culture vessel can readily be selected by the skilled person.

The invention also provides a culture medium induction supplement that can be used to produce a culture induction medium as disclosed here. A culture medium induction supplement is a mixture of ingredients that cannot itself support multipotent stem cells but which enables or improves multipotent stem cell culture when combined with other cell culture medium ingredients. The supplement can therefore be used to produce a functional cell culture medium of the invention by combining it with other cell culture ingredients to produce an appropriate medium formulation. The use of culture medium supplements is well known in the art. The invention provides a culture medium induction supplement that comprises adding a TLR ligand or TLR ligand inducer in combination with erythropoietin EPO and with exposure to hypoxia 0.5 2 oxygen or hypoxia mimetic cobalt chloride or desferrioxamine . The supplement may contain any ligands disclosed herein. The supplement may also contain one or more additional cell culture ingredients e.g. one or more cell culture ingredients selected from the group consisting of amino acids vitamins inorganic salts trace elements carbon energy sources and buffers.

A culture medium induction supplement may be a concentrated liquid supplement e.g. a 2 to 250 concentrated liquid supplement or may be a dry supplement. Both liquid and dry types of supplements are well known in the art. A supplement may be lyophilized.

A culture medium induction supplement of the invention will typically be sterilized prior to use to prevent contamination e.g. by ultraviolet light heating irradiation or filtration. A culture medium induction supplement may be frozen e.g. at 20 C. or 80 C. for storage or transport.

The invention also provides a hermetically sealed vessel containing a culture medium supplement of the invention. Hermetically sealed vessels may be preferred for transport or storage of the culture media supplements disclosed herein to prevent contamination. The vessel may be any suitable vessel such as a bioreactor a flask a plate a bottle a jar a vial or a bag.

A variety of substances have been used as surfaces for adherent stem cell culture and an appropriate material can readily be selected by the skilled person. Preferably the solid surface comprises plastic but may alternatively comprise of glass extracellular matrix. The surface may be planar tubular or in the form of a scaffold bead or fibre.

The compositions of the invention may comprise serum or may be serum free and or serum replacement free as described elsewhere herein.

 Multipotent stem cells are those that have the potential to differentiate into cells of all three germ layers endoderm mesoderm and ectoderm under appropriate conditions. Multipotent stem cells are not totipotent i.e. they cannot form an entire organism such as a foetus. Multipotent stem cells for use in the invention can be obtained using well known methods see below . It is envisaged that various types of multipotent stem cells may be used in conjunction with the invention whether obtained from embryonic foetal or adult tissue but are preferably derived from adult tissue sources.

The induction media disclosed herein may be used to culture mammalian stem cells particularly human adult stem cells. Human adult stem cells that may be used in conjunction with the invention are preferably mesenchymal stem cells. Mouse or primate stem cells may also be used. In preferred embodiments the stem cells are human bone marrow derived stem cells MSC .

Multipotent stem cells may be identified by their ability to differentiate into cells of all three germ layers e.g. by determining the ability of the cells to differentiate into cells showing detectable expression of markers specific for all three germ layers. References in the singular e.g. to a cell and equivalent references encompass the plural e.g. cells unless the context requires otherwise.

The induction media of the invention can be used to induce activate or prime a population of multipotent stem cells. Accordingly the invention provides the use of any induction medium as disclosed herein for inducing activating or priming a population of multipotent stem cells into discrete uniform phenotypes for cell based therapy. These discrete and uniform phenotypes can be an anti inflammatory MSC phenotype MSC2 and a uniform and discrete pro immune anti tumor MSC phenotype MSC1 .

The preferred method of induction for a uniform and discrete anti inflammatory MSC phenotype MSC2 is incubation of the MSC with a culture medium containing a Toll like receptor 3 TLR3 ligand such as polyinosinic polycytidylic acid or poly I C 1 g mL in combination with erythropoietin 1 mU mL or 5 ng mL and with exposure to hypoxia 1 oxygen or hypoxia mimetic cobalt chloride or desferrioxamine either at 200 M for 1 hour upon 70 90 confluent growth.

The preferred method of induction for a uniform and discrete pro immune anti tumor MSC phenotype MSC1 is incubation of the MSC with a culture medium containing a Toll like receptor 4 TLR4 ligand such as lipopolysaccharide LPS endotoxin at 10 ng mL in combination with erythropoietin 1 mU mL or 5 ng mL and with exposure to hypoxia 1 oxygen or hypoxia mimetic cobalt chloride or desferrioxamine either at 200 M for 1 hour upon 70 90 confluent growth.

TLR ligands in combination with erythropoietin and with exposure to hypoxia 0.5 2 oxygen or hypoxia mimetic cobalt chloride or desferrioxamine are added to fresh culture medium or as a culture supplement and incubated with the cells for 1 hr. Following this induction step the MSC are washed twice in culture medium or suitable buffered saline solution without the TLR ligands to remove cell and culture debris. Without wishing to be bound by theory short incubation times 

The TLR3 ligand used in the induction culture medium may be IL4 IL13 poly A U poly I C and combinations thereof and may be delivered by incubation transfection transduction by carrier molecules or by combinations thereof. Preferably the TLR3 ligand or agonist is poly I C .

The TLR4 ligand used in the induction culture medium may be aminoalkyl glucosaminide 4 phosphates interferons TNF alpha GM CSF lipopolysaccharide LPS and combinations thereof and may be delivered by incubation transfection transduction by carrier molecules or by combinations thereof. Preferably the TLR4 ligand or agonist is LPS.

The TLR3 agonist or TLR4 agonists may be delivered by incubation transfection transduction by carrier molecules or by other techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art.

The TLR3 ligand or agonist may be provided in an amount from about 10 pg mL to about 100 g mL from about 100 pg mL to about 100 g mL from about 1 ng mL to about 100 g mL from about 5 ng mL to about 100 g mL from about 10 ng mL to about 100 g mL from about 100 ng mL to about 100 g mL from about 0.1 g mL to about 50 g mL from about 0.1 g mL to about 10 g mL from about 0.25 g mL to about 7.5 g mL from about 0.5 g mL to about 5 g mL from about 1 g mL to about 2.5 g mL and preferably from about 1 g mL to about 1.5 g mL in culture medium or supplement as noted above.

The TLR4 ligand or agonist may be provided in an amount from about 10 pg mL to about 10 g mL from about 100 pg mL to about 10 g mL from about 1 ng mL to about 1 g mL from about 5 ng mL to about 1 g mL from about 10 ng mL to about 1 g mL from about 100 ng mL to about 1 g mL preferably from about 5 ng mL to about 50 ng mL and also preferably from about 5 ng mL to about 25 ng mL in culture medium or supplement as noted above.

The cells may be incubated with TLR ligand or agonist ligand in combination with erythropoietin EPO and with exposure to hypoxia 0.5 2 oxygen or hypoxia mimetic cobalt chloride or desferrioxamine for from about 1 minute to about 480 minutes from about 5 minutes to about 475 minutes from about 10 minutes to about 470 minutes from about 15 minutes to about 400 minutes from about 20 minutes to about 120 minutes from about 25 minutes to about 90 minutes from about 30 minutes to about 80 minutes from about 35 minutes to about 70 minutes from about 40 minutes to about 65 minutes from about 45 minutes to about 60 minutes from about 55 minutes to about 60 minutes and preferably about 60 minutes.

While this invention has been described in detail with particular reference to its preferred embodiments the principles and modes of operation of the invention have also been described in this specification. The invention should not be construed as being limited to the particular forms disclosed which are illustrative rather than restrictive. Modifications variations and changes may be made by those skilled in the art without departure from the spirit and scope of the invention as described by the following claims.

While preferred embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described herein it will be obvious to those skilled in the art that such embodiments are provided by way of example only. Numerous variations changes and substitutions will now occur to those skilled in the art without departing from the invention. It should be understood that various alternatives to the embodiments of the invention described herein may be employed in practicing the invention. It is intended that the following claims define the scope of the invention and that methods and structures within the scope of these claims and their equivalents be covered thereby.

