---

title: Self-photograph verification for communication and content access
abstract: A content access request from a first computing device for a digital content can be received. The content associated with request can be a digital content associated with a second computing device. A facial biometric identification challenge can be conveyed to the first computing device. The conveying can trigger the capture of a digital self-portrait photograph of a portion of a face of a user associated with the first computing device. A facial biometric of the face of a user within the digital self-portrait photograph can be compared to facial features of human faces within historic digital media associated with a different user. When the facial biometric matches a facial biometric within historic digital media, the digital content associated with the content access request can be conveyed to the first computing device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09633187&OS=09633187&RS=09633187
owner: 
number: 09633187
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20151230
---
The present invention relates to the field of computer security and more particularly to self photograph verification for communication and content access.

In today s connected world users can be inundated with a flurry of communication. Many times communication can be from friends family co workers and even businesses. Frequently users are bombarded with inappropriate messages or messages from strangers. It is not uncommon for users to receive cryptic and or unusual messages from strangers on social media websites. In many instances users can have difficulty configuring their social media profiles to effectively bar these seemingly random communications. As a result users are constantly forced to manually filter their message inbox. What is needed is a mechanism to easily aid users in controlling which messages and or communications which reach them.

One aspect of the present invention can include a system a computing program product and a method for self photograph verification for communication and content access. A content access request from a first computing device for a digital content can be received. The content associated with request can be a digital content associated with a second computing device. A facial biometric identification challenge to the first computing device. The conveying can trigger the capture of a digital self portrait photograph of a portion of a face of a user associated with the first computing device. A facial biometric of the face of a user within the digital self portrait photograph can be compared to facial features of human faces within historic digital media associated with a different user. When the facial biometric matches a facial biometric within historic digital media the digital content associated with the content access request can be conveyed to the first computing device.

Another aspect of the present invention can include a system a computing program product and a method for self photograph verification for communication and content access. A social media action initiated within a social network platform can be detected. The action can be performed by a first user attempting to interact with a second user. The first user can be prompted for a self portrait photograph prior to initiating the social media action. A user identity of the first user can be determined utilizing facial biometrics obtained from the self portrait photograph. When a previously established endorsement value associated with the user identity is greater than historically determined threshold value the social media action can be completed.

Yet another aspect of the present invention can include a method a computing program product and a system for self photograph verification for communication and content access. An endorsement engine can be configured to permit communication between a first user and a second user based on the frequency of presence of the first and second user within a set of historic digital media. The frequency of presence can be utilized to determine a portion of an endorsement value associated with the first user. The endorsement value can be associated with the first user and can be persisted within an endorsement list associated with the second user. A data store can be configured to persist a set of historic digital media and an endorsement list.

The present disclosure is a solution for self photograph verification for communication and content access. In the solution a communication or content request can be initiated by a sending computing device. In one embodiment the recipient computing device of the request can trigger a self photograph facial verification challenge. In the embodiment the verification challenge can prompt a user associated with the sending computing device to capture a self photograph of the user s face. For example a selfie photograph of the user s face can be captured and conveyed to the recipient computing device. In one instance the facial biometrics of the self photograph can be compared to historic digital media with a different user associated with the recipient computing device to determine the presence of the user in the digital media of the different user. That is if the different user and the user have taken photographs together then the verification can succeed.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing. Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions.

These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

In flow a user can utilize a device to communicate with recipient via device when the user is endorsed. In one instance user can be endorsed by determining a shared digital media in which both the user and the recipient are present. In the instance when both the user and the recipient are detected e.g. via facial recognition to be present in the same digital media e.g. photograph the user can be automatically endorsed. Endorsement can permit communication between devices and thus interaction between user recipient . It should be appreciated that endorsement can leverage social conventions to automatically verify a user has previously interacted with recipient in the real world. That is when interaction occurs in the real world a personal or business relationship between the user recipient can be inferred based on a shared presence within a photograph or video. For example when a user and recipient have taken a picture together the user can be endorsed.

In flow a communication request can be conveyed from device to device . For example a user can attempt to communicate with recipient within a social media platform such as LinkedIn. Communication request can conform to traditional and or proprietary communications. Communications can include but is not limited to a text exchange a Voice over Internet Protocol communication a Short Message Service message and the like. Upon receiving communication request device can issue a self portrait identification challenge . In one instance the challenge can trigger a self portrait capture to be manually and or automatically performed . For example upon receiving challenge a camera application can be executed which can allow a user to manually capture a self portrait. In one instance self portrait can be analyzed to determine when a suitable self portrait is captured. In the instance analysis can leverage facial biometrics to establish when a face of user is present in the self portrait. For example when a self portrait only includes half of the face of the user the portrait can be automatically rejected and the user can be prompted to capture a new self portrait.

Once a suitable self portrait is captured the self portrait can analyzed to determine the presence of the face within historic images where the recipient and the user are both present. For example when a photograph in which both the user and the recipient are present is detected communication to be permitted and when no photograph is found with both the user and the recipient communication can be disallowed.

When the user is endorsed a communication session can be established between the device . In one embodiment a message ca be optionally communicated to device from device . It should be appreciated that communication session can conform to traditional and or proprietary conventions.

In one instance a notification can be communicated to recipient to indicate a communication is initiated from user . In the instance the notification can identify user present self portrait additional information about user and the like. For example notification can present a dialog with a note User D is attempting to contact you. User D is endorsed present in 5 of your pictures .

In one embodiment text exchange messages can be communicated within session . For example a message can be sent from a FACEBOOK recipient outside the social network of the user when the recipient and user appear in the same picture on the recipient s FACEBOOK wall.

When the user is not endorsed e.g. lacks presence in recipients photos a failure notification can be presented within an interface of device . For example the user can be notified that they are not known to the recipient and therefore cannot communicate with the recipient. In one embodiment a manual override for the functionality in flow can be accessible to recipient . In the embodiment recipient can be notified that user is attempting contact and an option for permitting contact can be presented.

In embodiment a historic digital media associated with a recipient can be identified. In the embodiment a user self portrait can be evaluated to determine the face of user matches that of a face within media . In one instance facial biometrics can be collected from both media and self portrait . In the instance biometrics can be compared to determine if the biometrics of self portrait matches biometrics of one or more media .

In embodiment an endorsement list can be generated from historic digital media . In one embodiment facial recognition can be utilized to determine user identity of persons within media . In one instance the list can be dynamically generated and or updated in real time or near real time enabling the disclosure to be adaptive. For example when a recipient adds a picture with both the user and the recipient list can be updated. In one embodiment list can include weighted values which can be utilized to customize content access and or communication permissions associated with a recipient . In one instance face can be analyzed to determine a user identity which can be matched against an endorsement list . It should be appreciated that the disclosure can be arbitrarily complex and can permit any programmatic action to be performed responsive to the match . For example when match fails a user can be automatically added to a blocked list of the recipient .

Drawings presented herein are for illustrative purposes only and should not be construed to limit the invention in any regard. It should be appreciated that the disclosure can leverage media metadata social media metadata e.g. user tagging and the like to obtain user identity . In one instance media can include video images slideshow media and the like. In one instance media can be remotely and or locally situated from device . In the instance media can include media persisted within a distributed computing network a hard drive a memory card and the like. For example media can include videos in FACEBOOK albums and local pictures stored within a mobile phone.

It should be appreciated that compare can an arbitrarily complex functionality and can provide partial matches which can be manually verified by recipient .

In method an endorsement list can permit social network filtering for communications and content access. In step a social network action can be initiated by a first user to interact with a second user. Social network action can include but is not limited to message exchange profile access skill endorsement e.g. LinkedIn endorsements and the like. In step the first user can be prompted for a self portrait photograph. In step the self portrait photograph can be analyzed to confirm user identity. In step an endorsement list for the second user can be identified. In step if the endorsement of the first user in the endorsement list is greater than a previously established threshold then the method can continue to step else proceed to step . In one embodiment threshold can be manually and or automatically established. In one instance the threshold can be established based on security settings of a user account within a social network platform. In step the social network action can be performed. In step a first user can be notified of action failure. In step the method can end.

In method an endorsement list can be generated from historic digital media to permit social network filtering for communications and content access.

In step a user can be identified. In step a historic digital media associated with the user can be selected. In step a facial recognition can be performed to determine user identity of persons in media. In step an endorsement list can be generated. In step for each unique face a user identity can be determined. In step user identity can be associated with an endorsement value based on endorsement factors. Endorsement factors can include presence frequency presence currency e.g. old picture versus new picture and the like. Factors can be arbitrarily complex and can be utilized to facilitate weighting values associated with user identities. In step the method can end.

Drawings presented herein are for illustrative purposes only and should not be construed to limit the invention in any regard. Method can be performed in real time or near real time. Method steps can be performed in serial and or in parallel.

Social network server can be a hardware software entity for executing endorsement engine . Server functionality can include but is not limited to load balancing file sharing Web based services and the like. Server can include but is not limited to endorsement engine data store and the like. In one instance server can be a component of a distributed social networking platform. For example server can be a server device of a LINKEDIN platform or INSTAGRAM platform. In one embodiment server can include repository and or repository data sets.

Endorsement engine can be a hardware software element for permitting endorsement based communication filtering for social networking platforms. Engine functionality can include but is not limited to profile creation media sharing spoofing detection notification generation notification delivery and the like. In one instance engine can be a component of a distributed computing environment. In another instance engine functionality can be a capability of an Application Programming Interface API . In one instance engine can perform conflict resolution functionality when facial biometrics match with against more than one user identity or vice versa. In the instance conflict resolution can be manually performed via user intervention or can be automatically performed utilizing conflict resolution settings e.g. manually and or automatically established .

Facial recognition component can be a hardware software entity for detecting facial biometrics associated with a self portrait photograph and or digital media. Component functionality can include but is not limited to facial recognition facial tracking and the like. In one instance component can utilize traditional and or proprietary recognition mechanisms. In the instance mechanisms can include but is not limited to Principal Component Analysis using eigenfaces Linear Discriminate Analysis Elastic Bunch Graph Matching using the Fisherface algorithm the Hidden Markov model the Multilinear Subspace Learning using tensor representation neuronal motivated dynamic link matching and the like.

List manager can be a hardware software element for generating modifying and or persisting list . Manager functionality can include but is not limited to list presentation list exporting importing and the like. Manager can enable customized settings security policy creation and the like. In one instance manager can permit integration of endorsement list with existing social network security settings.

Device manager can be a hardware software entity for managing devices to enable endorsement based filtering. Manager functionality can include but is not limited to device registration user identity association and the like. In one embodiment manager can be a functionality of an administrative functionality.

Settings can be one or more options for configuring the behavior of system and or system components. Settings can include but is not limited to facial recognition component settings list manager options device manager settings and the like. In one instance settings can be manually and or automatically established. In one embodiment settings can be presented within interface server interface and the like.

Data store can be a hardware software component able to persist user profile settings media and the like. Data store can be a Storage Area Network SAN Network Attached Storage NAS and the like. Data store can conform to a relational database management system RDBMS object oriented database management system OODBMS and the like. Data store can be communicatively linked to server in one or more traditional and or proprietary mechanisms. In one instance data store can be a component of Structured Query Language SQL complaint database.

Endorsement list can be one or more data sets for enabling endorsement based filtering. List can include but is not limited to a user identity a recipient identity a user identity an endorsement value and the like. For example list can create an endorsement list to associate users e.g. User B User C User D of a recipient s e.g. User A social network with an endorsement value e.g. 93 based on how many times the user and the recipient appear in recipients social media albums photographs. In one embodiment entry can link the user of a recipient s social network to an endorsement value. In one instance endorsement value can be utilized to allowed tiered access to content and or communication. In the instance endorsement value can be a numerical value e.g. percentage which can be evaluated against a threshold value to determine access. In one embodiment threshold value can be established within settings . In the instance threshold can include a numeric value an alphanumeric value and the like. For example threshold can be set to medium filtering which can allow a user D to contact a recipient user A when the endorsement value is greater than 50 e.g. 93 .

Computing device can be a hardware software permitting the capture of photograph and or presentation of content . Device can include but is not limited to camera input output components user settings interface and the like. I O components can include but is not limited to a keyboard a mouse an accelerometer an ambient light sensor and the like. Computing device can include but is not limited to a desktop computer a laptop computer a tablet computing device a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile phone and the like. Interface can be a user interactive component permitting interaction with camera functionality and or content . Interface capabilities can include a graphical user interface GUI voice user interface VUI mixed mode interface and the like. For example interface can be a Web browser or a mobile application interface. In one instance interface can be communicatively linked to computing device .

Repository can be a hardware software entity for persisting and or providing access to user profile digital media and or content . Repository can include but is not limited to user profile digital media content a data store security settings and the like. In one instance repository can be a distributed networked computing storage. For example repository can be a cloud storage server able to persist photographs owned by a user e.g. or recipient . User profile can be a data set associated with a user and or a user identity of a computing system such as a social network. Profile can include a user identity a set of user preferences user data digital media and the like. In one instance profile can be associated with a user account a device e.g. via a unique device identifier and the like. Digital media can conform to traditional and or proprietary formats including but not limited to Joint Photographers Expert Group JPEG Motion Picture Experts Group MPEG Portable Network Graphics PNG Graphics Interchange Format GIF Audio Video Interleave AVI and the like.

It should be appreciated that the disclosure is not limited to a social network platform and or a social media platform. In one instance the disclosure can be a functionality of a messaging application executing on a computing device. For example disclosure can be a functionality of a mobile phone mobile messaging application.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

