---

title: Communication management system
abstract: A communication management system includes a first terminal and a second terminal. The first terminal and the second terminal are each configured to transmit and receive content data including at least video and audio data captured at a location of each of the first terminal and the second terminal. The first terminal is designated as a content delivery source and content data captured at the location of the first terminal is transmitted to the second terminal. The second terminal is restricted from transmitting content data captured at the location of the second terminal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09648275&OS=09648275&RS=09648275
owner: RICOH COMPANY, LTD.
number: 09648275
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20150512
---
This patent application is based on and claims priority pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 119 a to Japanese Patent Application No. 2014 099424 filed on May 13 2014 in the Japan Patent Office the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference herein.

The disclosures herein generally relate to a technique for controlling for communication connection during terminals to transmit content data.

A communication system is a technology to conduct videoconferences call and so on via communication networks such as the Internet. Owing to recent demand for reducing time and expenses for business trips such a communication system is becoming increasingly popular. In the communication system the communication system may be implemented by transmitting and receiving content data such as image data and sound data between two or more communication terminals at different locations. The content data transmitted from the communication terminal is delivered to other communication terminals in real time so that the communication system can be utilized as in the lecture. In this case when the content data is transmitted interactively via a network between a communication terminal at a presenter and a communication terminal at a participant the network traffic and noise increases. So in a case of utilizing the communication terminal at the lecture a technique such as restriction of transmitting the content data from the terminal at the participant is known.

A technique for installing a communication control unit at each terminal at each participant so as to conduct a restriction of transmitting the content is disclosed in Japanese patent publication number 2008 306547. A technique where the terminal at the participant transmits conference content data to a conference server so that the conference server can stream this conference content data to a conference audience connecting to the conference server is disclosed in Japanese patent publication number 2008 22552.

However there is a problem in the conventional art that a hardware or software configuration has to be changed for the terminal depending on whether or not a terminal is serving as a content data delivery source.

In an embodiment a communication connection system includes a connection controller that controls a relay device relaying content data between a terminal serving as a content data delivery source and a counterpart terminal. Circuitry manages information specifying the terminal serving as the content data delivery source. When another terminal different from the content data delivery source connects the relay device the circuitry controls to transmit the content data transmitted from the terminal specified with the information to another terminal and controls to restrict for transmitting the content data from another terminal.

The accompanying drawings are intended to depict example embodiments of the present invention and should not be interpreted to limit the scope thereof. The accompanying drawings are not to be considered as drawn to scale unless explicitly noted.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the present invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms includes and or including when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

In describing example embodiments shown in the drawings specific terminology is employed for the sake of clarity. However the present disclosure is not intended to be limited to the specific terminology so selected and it is to be understood that each specific element includes all technical equivalents that operate in a similar manner.

In the following description illustrative embodiments will be described with reference to acts and symbolic representations of operations e.g. in the form of flowcharts that may be implemented as program modules or functional processes including routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types and may be implemented using existing hardware at existing network elements or control nodes. Such existing hardware may include one or more Central Processing Units CPUs digital signal processors DSPs application specific integrated circuits field programmable gate arrays FPGAs computers or the like. These terms in general may be referred to as processors.

Unless specifically stated otherwise or as is apparent from the discussion terms such as processing or computing or calculating or determining or displaying or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

Hereinafter a first embodiment of the present invention will be described with reference to the drawings.

In the following preferred embodiments will be described with reference to the figures. is a schematic diagram illustrating a communication system according to an embodiment. Initially an outline of the communication system according to the embodiment is described with reference to .

There are various types of communication systems. One example may be a data providing system. In the data providing system content data are transmitted from one communication terminal to another communication terminal via a communication management system in one way direction. Another example may be a communication system. In the communication system information or emotional expressions are mutually communicated among two or more communication terminals via the communication management system. The communication system is utilized for mutually exchanging information or emotional expressions among the two or more communication terminals i.e. the communication terminals via a communication management system i.e. the communication management system . Examples of the communications system include a videoconference system a videophone system an audio conference system a audio call system and a personal computer screen sharing system.

The following embodiments describe the communication system the communication management system and the communication terminal by conceptualizing the videoconference system as an example of the communications system the videoconference management system as an example of the communication management system and the videoconference terminal as an example of the communication terminal. That is the communication terminal and the communication management system utilized in this embodiment may be applied not only to the videoconference system but may also be applied to the communication system.

As illustrated in the communication system includes two or more communication terminals . . . displays . . . for the communication terminals . . . two or more relay devices and a communication management system a program providing system and a maintenance system .

Note that in this embodiment any one of the communication terminals . . . may be referred to as a communication terminal any one of the displays . . . for the communication terminals . . . may be referred to as a display and any one of the relay devices and may be referred to as a relay device .

The communication terminal is configured to transmit and receive image data and audio data as examples of content data. Note that in the following the communication terminal and the communication management system may be simply called as the terminal and the management system respectively. The communications in this embodiment not only include transmission and reception of audio data but also include transmission and reception of image data. That is the transmission terminal transmits and receives image data and audio data. However the transmission terminal may transmit and receive the audio data alone without transmitting or receiving the image data.

In this embodiment dynamic image data i.e. video data are illustrated as an example of the image data however the image data may also be static image data. Or the image data may include both the dynamic and the static image data. The relay device is configured to relay the image data and the audio data among the terminals . The management system is configured to manage the terminal and the relay device in an integrated fashion.

Routers and depicted in are configured to select optimal paths for the image data and the audio data. Note that in this embodiment any one of the routers and may be simply called a router .

The program providing system includes a not illustrated hard disk HD configured to store programs for a terminal with which the terminal may implement various functions or various methods. Accordingly the program providing system may transmit such programs for the terminal to the terminal . The HD of the program providing system further stores programs for a relay device with which the relay device may implement various functions or various methods. Accordingly the program providing system may also transmit such programs for the relay device to the relay device . In addition the HD of the program providing system further stores communication management programs with which the management system may implement various functions or various methods. Accordingly the program providing system may also transmit such communication management programs to the management system .

The maintenance system is a computer configured to maintain or manage at least one of the terminal the relay device the management system and the program providing system . For example if the maintenance system is domestically located while the terminal the relay device the management system or the program providing system is located abroad the maintenance system remotely maintains or manages at least one of the terminal the relay device the management system and the program providing system via a communication network . Further the maintenance system performs maintenance such as the management of a model number a manufacturer s serial number a sales destination a maintenance inspection and a failure history on at least one of the terminal the relay device the management system and the program providing system without utilizing the communication network .

The terminals . . . the relay device and the router are connected via a LAN so that they may communicate with one another. Further the terminals . . . the relay device and the router are connected via a LAN so that they may communicate with one another. As illustrated in the LAN and LAN are set up in a predetermined region A. In the region A the LAN and LAN are connected via a dedicated line tab including the router so that they may communicate with one another. For example the region A may be Japan and the LAN may be set up in the Tokyo Office whereas the LAN may be set up in the Osaka Office. Meanwhile the terminals . . . the relay device and the router are connected via a LAN so that they may communicate with one another. The terminals . . . the relay device and the router are connected via a LAN so that they may communicate with one another. Further the LAN and LAN are set up in a predetermined region B. In the region B the LAN and LAN are connected via a dedicated line including the router so that they may communicate with one another. For example the region B may be USA and the LAN may be set up in the New York Office whereas the LAN may be set up in the Washington D.C. Office. The region A and the region B are connected from the respective routers and via the Internet so that the region A and the region B are mutually in communication via the Internet

Further the management system and the program providing system are connected to the terminal and the relay device via the Internet so that they may communicate with one another. The management system and the program providing system may be located in the region A or the region B or may be a region other than the regions A and B.

The relay device is connected to the terminal via the communication network . The relay device is configured to be operating constantly and may be located in a region other than the regions A and B for not being affected by the communications in the local areas of the regions A and B. Thus when the terminal desires to communicate with another terminal located in the other local area the relay device is utilized for relaying the communication data between the two terminal at different local areas. Further the relay device may also be utilized as an emergency relay device when the terminals located within the same local area desire to communicate with one another but the relay devices located in this local area are not operating.

Note that in this embodiment the communication network is made up of the LAN the LAN the dedicated line the Internet the dedicated line the LAN and the LAN . In the communication network the communications are typically carried out via the wires but may partially carried out wirelessly.

In the set of four numerals attached beneath each of the terminal the relay device the management system the router the program providing system and the maintenance system simply indicates the IP address of the typical IPv4. For example the IP address for the terminal is 1.2.1.3 as illustrated in . The IP addresses may be the IPv6 however in this embodiment the Ipv4 is used for simplifying the illustration.

Next the hardware configuration of the transmission system according to the embodiment is described. is an external diagram illustrating the terminal according to the embodiment. Hereinafter an X axis direction represents a longitudinal direction of the terminal a Y axis direction represents a direction perpendicular to the X axis direction in a horizontal plane a Z axis direction represents a direction perpendicular to the X axis direction and the Y axis direction i.e. vertical direction .

As illustrated in the terminal includes a case an arm and a camera housing . A front wall face of the case includes a not illustrated air intake face formed of air intake holes and a rear wall face of the case includes an exhaust face formed of exhaust holes. Accordingly the terminal may take in external air behind the terminal via the air intake face and exhaust the air inside the terminal via the exhaust face by driving a cooling fan arranged inside the case . A right wall face of the case includes a sound collecting hole via which a build in microphone see is capable of picking up audio sound such as voice sound or noise.

The right wall face of the case includes an operations panel . The operations panel includes operations buttons to a later described power switch a later described alarm lamp and a sound output face formed of sound output holes for outputting sound from a later described built in speaker . Further a left wall face of the case includes a recessed seating unit for accommodating an arm and an operations panel . The right wall face of the case further includes connecting ports to for electrically connecting cables to a later described external device connecting IF . The left wall face of the case further includes a not illustrated connecting port for electrically connecting a display cable cable to the later described external device connecting IF .

Note that hereinafter any one of the operations buttons to may be called an operations button and any one of the connecting ports to may be called a connecting port .

Next the arm is attached to the case via a torque hinge such that the arm moves in upward and downward directions within a tilt angle 1 range of 135 degrees with respect to the case . The arm illustrated in is arranged at a tilt angle of 90 degrees.

The camera housing includes a later described camera configured to take images of a user documents a room and the like. The camera housing further includes a torque hinge . The camera housing is attached to the arm via the torque hinge . The camera housing is rotationally attached to the arm in the upward and downward directions via the torque hinge such that the camera housing moves in a pan angle 2 range of plus or minus 180 degrees and a tilt angle 3 range of plus or minus 45 degrees based on the pan and tilt angles illustrated in are both 0.

Note that external appearances of the relay device the management system the program providing system and the maintenance system are all similar to a typical server computer and their descriptions are therefore omitted.

The terminal further includes the built in camera configured to image a subject based on the control of the CPU an imaging device IF configured to control driving of the camera the built in speaker configured to output sound a sound input output IF configured to process input and output of sound signal transmitted between the built in microphone and the built in speaker a display IF configured to output image data to the external display based on the control of the CPU the external device connecting IF configured to connect various external devices to the connecting ports the alarm lamp configured to inform the user of various functional problems of the terminal and a bus line such as an address bus or a data bus for electrically connecting the elements and devices with one another illustrated in via the bus line .

The display is a display unit formed of liquid crystal or an organic EL material configured to display images of the subject or icons for operating the terminal . Further the display is connected to the display IF via the cable see . The cable may be an analog RGB VGA cable a component video cable a high definition multimedia interface HDMI High Definition Multiple Interface Registered Trademark cable or a digital video interface DVI cable.

The camera includes lenses and a solid state image sensor configured to convert light into electric charges to produce digital images videos of the subject. Examples of the solid state image sensor include a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS or a charge coupled device CCD .

The external device connecting IF may be connected via a universal serial bus USB with external devices such as the external camera the external microphone and the external speaker. On connecting the external camera to the external device connecting IF via the USB the external camera is driven in priority to the built in camera . Likewise on connecting the external microphone or external speaker to the external device connecting IF via the USB the external microphone or external speaker is driven in priority to the built in microphone or the built in speaker .

Note that the recording medium is removable from the terminal . In addition if the recording medium is a non volatile memory configured to retrieve or write data based on the control of the CPU the recording medium is not limited to the flash memory and may be an electrically erasable and programmable ROM EEPROM .

Further the aforementioned programs for the terminal may be recorded in an installable format or in an executable format on a computer readable recording medium such as the recording medium to distribute such a recording medium.

Note that the aforementioned programs for the communication management may be recorded in an installable format or in an executable format on a computer readable recording medium such as the recording medium or the CD ROM to distribute such a recording medium.

Further the relay device the program providing system and the maintenance system includes a hardware configuration similar to that of the management system and the description of the hardware configuration of the maintenance system is therefore omitted. Note that the ROM stores programs for controlling the relay device the program providing system and the maintenance system . In this case the relay device the program providing system and the programs for the maintenance system may also be recorded in an installable format or in an executable format on a computer readable recording medium such as the recording medium or the CD ROM to distribute such a recording medium.

Note that other examples of the removable recording medium include a compact disc recordable CD R a digital versatile disk DVD and a Blu ray Disc BD .

Next a functional configuration of the communication system according to the embodiment is described. is a functional block diagram illustrating the transmission terminal the relay device and the manager system that constitute the transmission system according to the embodiment. As illustrated in the terminal the relay device and the management system are connected via the communication network such that they carry out data communications with one another via the communication network . Note that the program providing system and the maintenance system are not directly associated with videoconferencing communications and their illustrations are therefore omitted from .

The terminal includes a transmitter receiver unit an operation inputs receiver unit a login request unit an imaging unit a sound input unit a sound output unit a display control unit a delay detector unit a storing reading processing unit and an address list creating unit . The above units represent functions and units implemented by any of the elements and devices illustrated in which are activated by instructions from the CPU based on the programs stored in the ROM . Further the terminal further includes a volatile storage unit formed of the RAM illustrated in and a nonvolatile storage unit formed of the flash memory illustrated in .

Next the functional units of the terminal are described in more detail. The transmitter receiver unit of the terminal is configured to transmit various data information to and receive such data from other terminals relay devices and systems.

The operation inputs receiver unit is configured to receive various inputs from the user and such a function of the operation inputs receiver unit is implemented by the operations button and the power switch . For example when the user switches ON the power switch the operation inputs receiver unit receives a power ON signal to switches ON the power of the terminal .

The login request unit is configured to automatically transmit login request information indicating that the user desires to login and a current IP address of the terminal as an IP address of a request source terminal from the transmitter receiver unit to the management system via the communication network when the power ON signal is received by the operation inputs receiver unit as a trigger. Such a function of the login request unit is implemented by instructions received from the CPU illustrated in . On the other hand when the user switches OFF the power switch the transmitter receiver unit transmits power off status information to the management system and the operation inputs receiver unit subsequently turns OFF the power of the terminal completely. Accordingly the management system may detect a power status of the terminal as an OFF status.

The imaging unit is configured to take an image of a subject and output image data of the subject and such a function of the imaging unit is implemented by instructions received from the CPU and also by the camera and the imaging device IF . The sound input unit is configured to input sound data of the sound signal obtained by the microphone that converts sound of the user into the sound signal and such a function of the sound input unit is implemented by the sound input output IF .

The display control unit is configured to control transmission of the image data to the external display and such a function of the display control unit may be implemented by the network IF illustrated in .

The storing reading processing unit is configured to store various data in a nonvolatile storage unit or retrieve various data from the nonvolatile storage unit and such a function of the storing reading processing unit may be implemented by instructions received from the CPU and also by the SSD illustrated as an example in . The nonvolatile storage unit stores a terminal identification ID and a password and the like for identifying the terminal . The storing reading processing unit is configured to further store various data in the volatile storage unit and retrieve various data from the volatile storage unit . The storing reading processing unit overwrites the image data and the sound data in the volatile storage unit with new ones received from the destination terminal every time the terminal talks to the destination terminals. Note that the display displays previous image data before being overwritten with the new image data and the speaker outputs previous sound data before being overwritten with the new sound data.

The address list creating unit is configured to create and update an address list illustrated in which display statuses of the destination candidates with icons based on the later described address list information and the status information of the terminal as a destination candidate.

Note that the terminal ID and the later described relay device ID individually indicate identification information formed of language characters and various symbols that uniquely identify the terminal and the relay device. The terminal ID and the relay device ID may be the identification information formed of a combination of two or more of the languages characters and various symbols.

Next functions and units of the relay device are described. As illustrated as an example in the relay device includes a transmitter receiver unit a status detector unit a data quality checker unit a alteration quality management unit a data quality alteration unit and a storing reading processing unit . The above units represent functions and units implemented by any of the elements and devices illustrated in which are activated by instructions from the CPU based on the programs stored in the ROM . Further the relay device further includes a nonvolatile storage unit formed of the HD illustrated in which is capable of maintaining the various data or information even when the power of the relay device is turned off.

Next the functional configuration of the relay device is described. Note that in the following description the functions of the relay device are illustrated in association with the main elements and devices for implementing the units of the relay device illustrated in .

The transmitter receiver unit of the relay device is configured to transmit various data information to and receive such data from other terminals relay devices and systems. The function of the transmitter receiver unit may be implemented by the network IF illustrated in . The storing reading processing unit which are activated by instructions from the CPU is configured to store various data in the nonvolatile storage unit and retrieve various data from the nonvolatile storage unit .

Next functions and units of the management system are described. The management system includes a transmitter receiver unit a terminal authentication unit a terminal management unit a terminal extraction unit a session management unit and a storing reading processing unit .

The above units represent functions and units implemented by any of the elements and devices illustrated in which are activated by instructions from the CPU based on the programs stored in the ROM . Further the management system further includes a nonvolatile storage unit formed of the HD which is capable of maintaining the various data or information even when the power of the management system is turned off. For example the nonvolatile storage unit stores an address list frame illustrated in . The management system may include a volatile storage unit formed of the RAM .

The nonvolatile storage unit includes a terminal authentication management DB formed of a terminal authentication management table illustrated in . In the terminal authentication management table passwords are individually associated with the terminal IDs of all the terminals managed by the management system .

The nonvolatile storage unit includes a terminal management DB formed of a terminal management table illustrated in . In the terminal management table terminal IDs of the terminals as destination terminals are associated with terminal names of the destination terminals operating statuses of the destination terminals communication statuses of the destination terminals with other terminals receipt time and dates at which the later described login request information of the destination terminals is received by the management system and IP addresses of the destination terminals . The communication status NONE indicating that the terminal is in a waiting status and not communicating with other terminals a BUSY indicating a status where the terminal is engaged with communicating with another terminal and a PRESENTATION BUSY indicating a status where the terminal transmits the content data during the lecture or the terminal receives the content data during the lecture. In the terminal management table the communication status PRESENTATION BUSY of the terminals serving as a delivery source of content data is associated with presenter information 1 indicating a status where the terminal is a presenter. In the terminal management table the communication status PRESENTATION BUSY of the terminals is associated with restriction information on indicating a status where the transmitting content data is restricted or with the restriction information off indicating a status where the transmitting content data is not restricted.

Note the terminal ID in the terminal management table is a terminal ID of a particular terminal that is selected as a destination candidate in starting delivery of content data during the lecture. As an embodiment of this invention the particular terminal may be a terminal s own self to which it transmit the content data. For example when the particular terminal is selected as the destination terminal in the terminal starting communication the terminal transmits a communication initiation request to the management system . The communication initiation request is a request that is sent to the management system when the terminal transmits the content data to the terminal itself.

The nonvolatile storage unit includes an address list management DB formed of an address list management table illustrated in . In the address list management table terminal IDs of registered destination candidate terminals are associated with the terminal IDs of the request source terminals that request initiation of a videoconference communication. For example in the address list management table illustrated in the terminal ID of the request source terminal is associated with a destination candidate terminal having a terminal ID a destination candidate terminal having a terminal ID which the request source terminal requests to initiate the videoconference.

The address list management table manages the terminal ID of the particular terminal as the candidate terminal the terminal ID is associated with a terminal ID of the request source terminal. Accordingly it is possible the terminal to request for communication start in a state of lecture mode. Note that the address list management table manages the terminal ID of the particular terminal as the candidate terminal in association with a part of all terminal IDs of the request source terminals. Accordingly it is possible for limit the terminal of the request source terminal.

The nonvolatile storage unit includes a session management DB formed of a session management table illustrated in . In the session management table session IDs that identify sessions in which the communication data are transmitted and received between the terminals are associated with the relay device IDs of the relay devices utilized for relaying the image data and the sound data the terminal ID of the terminal participant terminal participated in this session.

Next functional units of the management system are described. Note that in the following description the functions of the management system are illustrated in association with the main elements and devices for implementing the units of the management system illustrated in .

The transmitter receiver unit of the management system is configured to transmit various data information to and receive such data from other terminals relay devices and systems. The function of the transmitter receiver unit may be implemented by the network IF . The terminal authentication unit is configured to search the terminal authentication management table see of the nonvolatile storage unit by the terminal ID and a password contained in the login request information as search keys and authenticate the corresponding terminal based on whether the terminal ID and the password contained in the login request are identical to those managed in the terminal authentication management table.

The terminal management unit which are activated by instructions from the CPU is configured to manage the terminal management table see by associating the terminal ID of the request source terminal the operating status of the request source terminal and the IP address of the request source terminal. The terminal management unit searches the terminal management table with the terminal ID as a search key and reads the operation status and so on of the searched terminal ID.

The terminal extraction unit is configured to search the address list management table see by the terminal ID of the request source terminal that has requested for the login as a key and retrieve the terminal IDs of the destination candidate terminals capable of communicating with the request source terminal. Such a function of the terminal extraction unit is implemented by instructions received from the CPU .

The session management unit is configured to generate a session ID to identify the session transmitting the content data during the terminals . The session management unit is configured to choose the relay device relaying the content data via the session among a plurality of relay devices. The session management unit configured to store and manage the session IDs in association with the terminal ID of the request source terminal and the terminal ID of the destination terminal in the session management table see of the nonvolatile storage unit . Such a function of the session management unit is implemented by instructions received from the CPU .

So far the configuration and functions units of the communication system according to the embodiment are described and processes and operations carried out by the communication system according to the embodiment are subsequently described. In using an outline of the processes and operations according to the embodiment is described. Note that is a conceptual diagram illustrating transmitting and receiving statuses of image data sound data and various management information in the communication system .

In the communication system a management information session sei for transmitting various management information is established between each terminal and the management system . In the communication system the relay device relays the content data among the terminals . Accordingly a content data session sed for transmitting the content data sound data and image data is established between a terminal serving as a delivery source of the content data and the one or more terminals including the terminal serving as a delivery source of the content data.

The transmitter receiver unit of the management system transmits a relay device connection information as one of the management information to the terminal serving as the delivery source of the content data. Accordingly a connection control between the terminal and the relay device is carried out. The terminal management DB stores and manages a presenter information to determine the terminal as the delivery source of the content data. When the terminal different from the terminal connects to the relay device the transmitter receiver unit transmits a restriction information to the terminal so that the microphone and the speaker can be controlled to restrict generating the content data. When the relay device relays the content data between the terminal and the terminal the content data transmitted from the terminal transmits to the terminal and a transmission of the content data from the terminal to the terminal is controlled to be restricted to restricting the generation of the content data at the terminal . Accordingly the management system can control to transmit the content data from each terminal based on the presenter information without changing a configuration of each terminal based on whether or not the terminal is the delivery source of the content data.

The transmitter receiver unit of the management system transmits an address list information including terminal IDs of the terminals serving as one or more destination candidate terminals to the terminal . The transmitter receiver unit transmits the presenter information in association with the terminal ID of the terminal serving as the delivery source of the content data to the terminal . Accordingly the terminal can determine based on the presenter information the terminal serving as the delivery source of the content data in the address list. The terminal can receive the content data when the terminal sends the request for initiating the communication to the determined terminal serving as the delivery source of the content data.

The transmitter receiver unit of the management system receives cancellation request information indicating a request for cancelling the restriction of transmitting the content data from the terminal . When the transmitter receiver unit receives the cancellation request information the transmitter receiver unit receives an approval for the request for the cancellation from the terminal serving as the delivery source of the content data. Upon acceptance of the approval the transmitter receiver unit transmits cancellation information indicating information for cancelling the restriction of transmitting the content data to the terminal . Accordingly the terminal can transmit the content data and the terminal can transmit questions at the side of the terminal to the terminal

The terminal management DB stores and manages the terminal IDs associated with the terminal name. The transmitter receiver unit transmits a terminal name AB TERMINAL TOKYO OFFICE JAPAN associated with the terminal ID of the terminal serving as sender of a request for the cancelling the restriction to the terminal . Accordingly the terminal can determine the terminal serving as the sender of request for the cancelling the restriction even if there are a plural of the terminals receiving the content data from the terminal

When the transmitter receiver unit of the terminal receives the restriction information the imaging unit controls to restrict generating the image data and the sound input unit controls to restrict generating the sound data. Accordingly it is possible to reduce traffic of the network because the content data from this terminal to the relay device is restricted.

The display control unit of the terminal outputs the image based on the image data transmitted from the terminal serving as the delivery source of the content data to the display . While a certain terminal cancels the restriction of the transmitting the content data the display control unit outputs the image based on the image data from the certain terminal. Accordingly a user of the terminal can view the content data from the terminal serving as the delivery source of the content data and acknowledge questions transmitted from the certain terminal that cancels the restriction of the transmitting the content data.

Next process carried out by the communication system according to the embodiment is described in detail. is a sequence diagram illustrating a process of a preparatory phase when the terminals initiate the communication. A process in which each of the management information items is transmitted and received in a preparatory phase before the terminal initiates the communication is described with reference to . Note that illustrates a process in which various management information items are all transmitted and received in the management information sessions sei.

First when the user of the terminal switches ON the power switch illustrated in the operation inputs receiver unit illustrated in receives a power ON signal to switches ON the power of the terminal step S . On receiving the power ON signal as a trigger the login request unit automatically transmits the login request information indicating the login request from the transmitter receiver unit to the management system via the communication network step S . The login request information includes a terminal ID and a password for identifying the terminal indicating an own terminal as the request source terminal. The terminal ID and password are data that are retrieved from the nonvolatile storage unit via the storing reading processing unit and then transmitted to the transmitter receiver unit . Note that when the login request information is transmitted from the terminal to the management system the receiver side management system may detect the IP address of the transmitter side terminal

Next the terminal authentication unit of the management system authenticates the terminal based on whether the ID and password identical to those in the login request information are managed in the terminal authentication management DB of the nonvolatile storage unit by searching for the ID and password as search keys in the terminal authentication management table see step S .

The terminal authentication unit manages identical terminal IDs and passwords. Accordingly when the terminal authentication unit determines that the received login request comes from the terminal having a valid access authorization the terminal management unit stores the receipt time and date of the received login information and the IP address of the terminal in association with the record presented by the terminal ID and the destination name of the terminal in the terminal management table see step S . Thus the terminal IP address 1.2.1.3 are managed in association with the terminal ID in the terminal management table illustrated in .

Subsequently the status setting unit of the terminal management unit sets the operating status ONLINE and the communication status NONE of the terminal and stores the set operating status and communication status in association with the record presented by the terminal ID and the destination name of the terminal in the terminal management table see step S .

The transmitter receiver unit of the management system transmits authentication result information indicating an authentication result acquired by the terminal authentication unit via the communication network to the request source terminal i.e. terminal that has requested the login request step S . In the following the case where the terminal authentication unit has determined that the terminal has the valid access authorization is further described.

When the terminal receives the determined result indicating that the terminal has the valid access authorization the transmitter receiver unit of the terminal transmits address list request information indicating an address list request to the management system via the communication network step S . The transmitter receiver unit of the management system then receives the address list request information.

Next the terminal extraction unit searches the address list management table see by the terminal ID of the request source terminal i.e. terminal that has requested the address list and retrieves the terminal IDs of the destination candidate terminals capable of communicating with the request source terminal i.e. terminal . As a result the terminal extraction unit extracts the terminal IDs of the destination candidate terminals capable of communicating with the request source terminal step S . In addition the terminal status acquisition unit searches the terminal management table see by the terminal IDs of the destination candidate terminals extracted by the terminal extraction unit as search keys and retrieves the destination names corresponding to the terminal IDs of the destination candidate terminals. In this example terminal IDs of the destination terminals associated with the terminal ID of the request source terminal i.e. terminal and terminal names LECTURE START AB TERMINAL TOKYO OFFICE JAPAN CA TERMINAL NEW YORK OFFICE USA CB TERMINAL NEW YORK OFFICE USA corresponding to the terminal IDs . . . . . . of the destination terminals . . . . . . are extracted.

Next the transmitter receiver unit of the management system retrieves data indicated by an address list frame i.e. data indicated by the address list frame in from the nonvolatile storage unit step S and transmits the address list information address list frame terminal IDs address names including the address list frame the terminal IDs and the destination names extracted by the terminal extraction unit to the request source terminal i.e. terminal step S . Accordingly in the request source terminal terminal the transmitter receiver unit receives the address list information and the storing reading processing unit stores the address list information in the volatile storage unit step S .

In this embodiment the address list information is not managed by the terminal but is managed by the management system . The management system uniformly manages the address list information of all the terminals in the communication system . Thus even if a new terminal is added to the communication system a new model terminal is replaced with the terminal in the communication system or the appearance of the address list frame is altered the management system side may handle all the processes concerning these alternations at once so that the terminal side may not need to carry out the process of changing the address list information.

The terminal management unit of the management system searches the terminal management table see by the terminal ID of the terminals serving as the destination candidate terminals extracted by the terminal extraction unit . The terminal management unit reads the operating status the communication status the presenter information and the restriction information of each of the terminal IDs extracted by the terminal extraction unit so that the terminal management unit can retrieve the operating status the communication status the presenter information and the restriction information of the terminal serving as the destination candidate terminals Step S .

Next the transmitter receiver unit of the management system transmits a terminal status information including the terminal ID of the terminal serving as the destination candidate terminal the operating status the communication status the presenter information and the restriction information of the terminal to the terminal via the communication network Step S . And the transmitter receiver unit transmits a terminal status information including the terminal ID of the terminal serving as the destination candidate terminal the operating status the communication status the presenter information and the restriction information of the terminal to the terminal

Next the storing reading processing unit stores the terminal status information received from the management system in the volatile storage unit Step S . Accordingly the terminal can retrieve the operating status of the terminal serving as the destination candidate terminals that are able to communicate with the terminal

Next the address list creating unit of the terminal creates an address list reflected the status of the terminal serving as the destination candidate terminal based on the address list information and the status information stored in the volatile storage unit . And the display control unit controls a displaying the created address on the display

As shown in the address list indicating a name of the destination candidate terminal and an icon reflected the status information in the address list frame is displayed on the display . is a conceptual diagram illustrating an address list according to an embodiment. The address list frame indicates the names of the destination candidate terminals and the icons reflecting the status information associated with the names of the destination candidate terminals . The icon indicates COMMUNICATION OK to the terminal because a status of the terminal is ONLINE and WAITING FOR COMMUNICATION the communication status is NONE . The icon indicates COMMUNICATION NG to the terminal because a status of the terminal is OFFLINE. The icon indicates that the terminal is communicating with the other terminal the communication status is Busy . Note that the terminal identified with the terminal ID is a special terminal such as the terminal that has this address list and the icon associated with the terminal ID is different from the icon the icon and the icon 

Next a process for the terminal to request for delivery of content data will be described using . is a sequence diagram illustrating a process of communication start at the terminal . In the process illustrated various type of information are transmitted received in a management information session sei without the process of step S.

First when the user of the terminal presses the operation keys to select the icon associated with the terminal ID of the special terminal in the destination candidate terminals see displayed on the display the operation input acceptor accepts a request for starting communication with the terminal as the special terminal Step S . In response to this request the data transmitter receiver of the terminal transmits to the management system initiation request information that includes the terminal ID of the terminal serving as a request source terminal the IP address 1.2.1.3 and the terminal ID of the terminal serving as the destination terminal the initiation request information that indicates request for starting communication with the content data session sed.

When the terminal serving as the request source terminal chooses the terminal serving as the special terminal and the destination terminal the terminal serving as the request source terminal requests for initiation of delivery of the content data. Accordingly the terminal management unit changes to the communication status Presentation Busy indicating communication in delivery mode is carried out the communication status Presentation Busy is associated with the terminal ID of the terminal serving as the request source terminal and changes to the presenter information 1 indicating the terminal is the delivery source presenter the presenter information 1 is associated with the terminal ID of the terminal serving as the request source terminal.

Next the session management unit creates a session ID se identifying the content data session sed to carry out the communication requested by the terminal Step S .

Next the session management unit of the management system chooses the relay device relaying the content data via the content data session sed created based on the terminal s request Step S . In this embodiment a situation in which the session management unit selects the relay device is illustrated.

The session management unit finishes choosing the relay device the session management unit stores the session ID se associated with the terminal ID of the terminal serving as the participant terminal participating in the content data session sed and the relay device ID of the relay device chosen by the process of the Step S in the session management table see included by the nonvolatile storage unit Step S .

Next the transmitter receiver unit transmits the session ID created by the process of the Step S and the relay device connection information used in connection with the relay device chosen by the process of the Step to the terminal via the communication network Step S . The IP address 1.2.1.2 of the relay device a authentication information and a port number and so on may be included in the relay device connection information.

Note that the transmitter receiver unit may transmit information indicating the terminal is the terminal serving as the delivery source of the content data in the lecture mode to the terminal serving as the request source terminal.

The transmitter receiver unit of the terminal transmits the session ID se based on the relay device connection information to the relay device . Accordingly the terminal connects with the relay device and the content data session sed is established between the terminal and the relay device Step S .

When the content data session sed has been established the terminal management unit changes to OFF in the RESTRICTION INFORMATION field of the record indicating terminal ID of the terminal in the terminal management table See . In response to the change of the restriction information the transmitter receiver unit of the management system transmits output allowance information indicating that an output of content data from the microphone and the speaker is allowed Step S .

When the transmitter receiver unit of the terminal receives the output allowance information the microphone starts outputting the image data from the camera and the sound input unit starts outputting the sound data with unmuting the microphone Step S . The transmitter receiver unit of the terminal transmits the output image data and sound data to the relay device via the content data session sed. The relay device transmits the received image data and sound data to the terminal participating in this content data session sed. Accordingly the terminal receives the image data and sound data sent from the terminal

When the transmitter receiver of the terminal receives the image data and the sound data the image is output from the display based on the received image data by the display control unit and the sound is output from the speaker based on the received sound data by the sound output unit Step S . is an illustration of an example of the image output by the process of the Step S. As shown by the an image captured by the imaging unit of the terminal and an image based on the image data received by the transmitter receiver are displayed on the display . Accordingly it is possible for an user of the terminal to check whether the camera operates or not or whether the image data transmitted from the terminal is delivered or not.

Next a process after the content data session sed is established by the terminal for the terminal to participate in this content data session sed and to receive the delivery of the content data from the terminal will be described using . is a sequence diagram illustrating a process of a participation in the content data session sed. In the process illustrated various type of information are transmitted received in a management information session sei without the process of step S.

The terminal logs in to the management system in the same way of the process from the Step S to the Step S. The display of the display displays the address list as shown by . is a conceptual diagram illustrating an address list according to an embodiment. Note that when the address list is displayed on the display of the display the terminal starts the content data session sed. And the information indicating the PRESENTATION BUSY as the communication status of the terminal and the information indicating the 1 as the presenter information manage in the terminal management table See of the management system . The display control unit of the terminal causes based on the status information of the terminal transmitted from the management system a icon indicating the status of the terminal and the icon indicating the participation in the content data session sed by the terminal serving as the presenter of the lecture to display on the display

Next when the user of the terminal presses the operation keys to select the icon associated with the terminal ID of the terminal in the destination candidate terminals see displayed on the display the operation input acceptor accepts a request for starting communication with the terminal serving as the terminal of the presenter participating in the content data session sed Step S . In response to this request the data transmitter receiver of the terminal transmits to the management system participation request information that includes the terminal ID of the terminal serving as the request source terminal the IP address and the terminal ID of the terminal serving as the destination terminal the participation request information that indicates request for participation in the content data session sed Step S .

Next the terminal manager of the management system searches the terminal management DB see by using the terminal ID of the terminal serving as the destination terminal which is included in the participation request information as a search key and reads the communication status PRESENTATION BUSY of the terminal serving as the destination terminal Step S . Note that when the terminal serving as the request source terminal chooses the terminal participating in the content data session sed and having the communication status PRESENTATION BUSY it is treated that this terminal requests for receiving the delivery the content data with participating in the content data session sed. Accordingly the terminal management unit changes in response to the reading the communication status of the destination terminal to PRESENTATION BUSY in the COMMUNICATION STATUS field of the record indicating the terminal ID of the terminal serving as the request source terminal in the terminal management table See .

Next the session management unit reads the session ID se of the session participating in the terminal serving as the destination terminal in the session management table see and additionally stores the terminal ID of the terminal serving as the request source terminal in the PARTICIPANT TERMINAL field of the record indicating the session ID se .

Next the transmitter receiver unit of the management system transmits a participation notice including the terminal ID of the terminal serving as the terminal requesting for participating in the content data session sed and the session ID se to the terminal that has already participated in the content data session. Accordingly the terminal can get the terminal s request for participating in the content data session.

Furthermore the transmitter receiver unit of the management system transmits the session ID se of the content data session sed and a participation permission notice including the relay device connection information used in connection with the relay device to the terminal serving as the request source terminal Step S . Note that in the process of the Step S the transmitter receiver unit of the management system transmits information indicating the content data delivery from the terminal serving as the terminal of the presenter in the lecture is initiated to the terminal serving as the request source terminal.

The transmitter receiver unit of the terminal transmits the session ID se to the relay device using the relay device connection information received from the management system . Accordingly a content data session sed is established between the terminal and the terminal Step S .

When the content data session sed is established the terminal management unit changes to ON in the RESTRICTION INFORMATION field of the record indicating the terminal ID of the terminal in the terminal management table See Step S . In response to changing the restriction information the transmitter receiver of the management system transmits restriction request information indicating request for restricting output of the content data the sound data and the image data from the terminal to the terminal Step S .

When the transmitter receiver unit of the terminal receives the restriction request information the imaging unit restricts outputting the image data and the sound output unit restricts outputting the sound data Step S . The way of the restriction is for example the imaging unit or the sound output unit stops outputting the content data fully or the imaging unit or the sound output unit outputs the content data of low resolution. Both restricting transmitting the content data from the terminal and transmitting the content data from the terminal is carried out so that the relay device can transmit the content data from the terminal to the terminal that is the terminal and the terminal participating in the content data session. Accordingly the terminal can receive the image data and the sound data from the terminal

When the transmitter receiver of the terminal receives the image data and the sound data the image is output based on the received image data by the display control unit from the display and the sound is output based on the received sound data by the sound output unit from the speaker Step S . is an illustration of an example of the image output by the process of the Step S. As shown by the an image based on the image data transmitted from the terminal are displayed by the display control unit of the terminal on the display . Accordingly it is possible for an user of the terminal to review the image data transmitted from the presenter of the lecture. The process that after the terminal and the terminal have participated in the content data session sed the other terminal participates in this content data session sed and receives the delivery is as same as the process of from the Step to the Step . In this case it is enough for the other terminal to choose a voluntary terminal serving as the destination terminal participating in the content data session sed. Note that it is enough that the voluntary terminal is a terminal serving as the terminal of the delivery source of the content data or the terminal of the receiver of the content data.

Next the points of a second embodiment of the present invention that are different from the first embodiment will be described using . is a sequence diagram illustrating a process to cancel the restriction of the transmitting the content data. The second embodiment will describe a process of cancelling the restriction of the transmitting the content data for an user of the terminal serving as the terminal for the presenter to receive a question from a user serving as a participant the restriction is set at the terminal serving as the terminal of the receiver of the content data and used by the user serving as the participant.

Next when the user of the terminal serving as the terminal for the presenter participating in the content data session sed presses the operation keys the operation input acceptor accepts a request for cancelling the restriction of transmitting the content data the restriction is set at the terminal except for the terminal for the presenter participating in the content data session Step S . The way of acceptance of this request is for example that the display controller unit causes a button for a request accepting illustrating to display and the operation input acceptor detects the pressing the button . is an illustration of an example of the image output by the process of the Step S.

In acceptance to this request the data transmitter receiver of the terminal transmits to the management system a cancellation request information that indicates request for cancelling the restriction of transmitting the content data Step S . The cancellation request information include the session ID se of the content data session sed participating in the terminal

When the transmitter receiver of the management system receives the cancellation request information the session management unit of the management system specifies the terminal participating in the session identifying the session ID se in referring the session management table See Step S . And in the process of Step S the transmitter receiver of the management system transmits the cancellation information for cancelling the restriction of transmitting the content data to the terminal

When the transmitter receiver of the terminal receives the cancellation information the imaging unit cancels the restriction of outputting the image data from the camera during predetermined time and the sound input unit temporally cancels the restriction of outputting the sound data from the microphone Step S . Accordingly it is possible for the terminal to temporally transmit the content data to the relay device . And the relay device transmits the content data transmitted from the terminal to the terminal for example the terminal participating in the contend data session sed. Accordingly it is possible for the user of the terminal to accept the question.

Next the points of a third embodiment of the present invention that are different from the first and second embodiment will be described using . is a sequence diagram illustrating a process to cancel the restriction of the transmitting the content data. The third embodiment will describe a process of cancelling the restriction of the transmitting the content data for an user serving as the participant of the terminal to provide a question the restriction is set at the terminal serving as the terminal of the receiver of the content data.

When the user serving as the participant of the terminal participating in the content data session sed presses the operation keys the operation input acceptor of the terminal accepts a request for cancelling the restriction of transmitting the content data from the terminal Step S . The way of acceptance of this request is for example that the display controller unit causes a button for accepting a request for providing question to display and the operation input acceptor detects the pressing the button .

In acceptance to this request the data transmitter receiver of the terminal transmits to the management system a cancellation request information that indicates request for cancelling the restriction of transmitting the content data Step S . The cancellation request information include the session ID se of the content data session sed participating in the terminal and the terminal ID of the terminal

The session management unit of the management system searches the session management table see by using the session ID se included in the cancellation request information as a search key and reads the terminal ID of the terminal participating in the content data session identified the session ID se Step S . And in the process of Step S the terminal management unit of the management system specifies by using the read terminal ID the participant terminal the terminal having the information indicating the 1 as the presenter information manage in the terminal management table See of the management system .

Next the terminal management unit searches the terminal management table see by using the terminal ID serving as the request source terminal included in the cancellation request information as a search key and reads the terminal name AB TERMINAL TOKYO OFFICE JAPAN associated with the terminal ID Step S . And in the process of Step S the transmitter receiver of the management system transmits approval request information to the terminal specified as the presenter the approval request information is request for approval for canceling the restriction of transmitting the content data of the terminal and the approval request information includes the terminal ID and the terminal name of the terminal

After the terminal receives the approval request information the operation input acceptor of the terminal based on the operation of the operation keys accepts the approval for cancelling the restriction of transmitting the content data the restriction set at the terminal Step S . The way of approval of this request is for example that the display controller unit causes a button for accepting an approval of cancelling to display and the operation input acceptor detects the pressing the button . is an illustration of an example of the image output by the process of the Step S. When the operation input acceptor accepts the approval for cancelling the restriction the transmitter receiver unit of the terminal transmits cancellation permission information indicating permission for canceling the restriction of outputting the content data at the terminal to the management system Step S . This cancellation permission information includes the terminal ID of the terminal serving as the request source terminal. The process of canceling the restriction at the terminal is as same as the process illustrated in the second embodiment Step S S .

In this embodiment the address list frame including the destination names icons and the like is displayed as illustrated in however the destination names icons and the like may be displayed without the address list frame .

Further according to the embodiment the management system and the program providing system may be integrated in a single computer or various functions and units of the management system and the program providing system may be separately arranged in two or more computers. Moreover if the program providing system is formed in a single computer programs transmitted via the program providing system may be grouped into two or modules or may not be grouped. Further if the program providing system is formed of two or more computers the programs grouped into modules may be transmitted from the separate computers.

Moreover according to the embodiment recording media storing a terminal program a relay device program and a communication management program and the program providing system including the HD storing such programs may be distributed to users domestically and abroad as a program product.

Moreover according to the embodiment the IP addresses of the terminals are managed by the terminal management table as illustrated in . However alternatively respective fully qualified domain names FQDNs of the terminals may be managed instead of the respective IP addresses. In this case a known domain name system DNS server may acquire the IP address corresponding to the FQDN.

Further according to the above embodiment the video conference system is described as an example of the communication system however the communication system may not be limited to the video conference system. The communication system may be a telephone system such as an Internet protocol IP phone or an Internet phone. Further the communication system may be a car navigation system. In this case one of the terminals may be a car navigation device mounted on a vehicle and the other terminal may be a management terminal or a management server configured to manage the car navigation or another car navigation device mounted on another vehicle. Further the communication system may be a sound conferencing system or a personal computer PC screen shared system.

In addition the communication system may be a mobile phone communication system. In this case the terminal may be a mobile phone terminal. illustrates an example of an address list displayed on the mobile phone terminal. Specifically the mobile phone terminal as the terminal includes a main body a menu screen display button arranged on the main body a display unit arranged on the main body a microphone provided in a lower part of the main body and a speaker provided in a surface of the main body . Among these the menu screen display button is utilized for displaying a menu screen on which icons of various applications are displayed. The display unit is formed of a touch panel on which the user touches with a finger or hand to select a desired address name to communicate with a person of the desired address name.

Further according to the above embodiment the image data and the sound data are described as an example of the content data however the content data may not be limited to the image data or the sound data. The content data may be touch data tactile data . In this case a tactile sense obtained by the user who has touched one terminal may be transmitted to the other terminal. Further the content data may be smell olfactory sense data. In this case the smell odor obtained by one terminal may be transmitted to the other terminal. Further the content data may be at least one of the image data the sound data the touch data and the smell data.

Moreover according to the above embodiment the video conference system implemented by the communication system is described however the communication system may not be limited to the video conference system. The communication system may be utilized for a preliminary meeting a general conversation between family members or friends or one way presentation of information.

As described above in the transmission system according to the embodiment a transmission management system manages a communication status of a first transmission terminal that communicates with a second transmission terminal. When the transmission management system receives alteration information for altering the communication status of the first transmission terminal from the first transmission terminal the transmission management system alters the communication status of the first transmission terminal based on the received alteration information and the communication status of the first transmission terminal managed by the transmission management system. Accordingly since the transmission management system detects the communication status of the first transmission terminal the transmission management system may effectively control connection between the first and second transmission terminal.

The advantages illustrated above are merely examples of the most preferred ones provided by the embodiments and therefore are not limited to those described in the embodiments.

Embodiments of the present invention have been described heretofore for the purpose of illustration. The present invention is not limited to these embodiments but various variations and alterations may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention. The present invention should not be interpreted as being limited to the embodiments that are described in the specification and illustrated in the drawings.

The relay devices the management system and the program providing system in the above described embodiments may be configured by a single computer or a plurality of computers to which divided portions functions are arbitrarily allocated.

In addition in the case where the program providing system is configured by a single computer a program transmitted by the program providing system may be separately transmitted in units of a plurality of modules or may be transmitted in its entirety.

Further in the case where the program providing system is configured by a plurality of computers a program may be divided into a plurality of modules and the modules may be individually transmitted from the respective computers.

In addition a recording medium such as a compact disc read only memory CD ROM storing a terminal control program a relay device program or a communication management program in the above described embodiments the HD storing these programs and the program providing system including the HD are each used in the case where the terminal control program relay device program or communication management program is provided as a program product to users within a certain country or outside that country.

Further although management is performed while paying attention to the resolution of an image of image data relayed by the relay device which serves as an example of the quality of the image of the image data the embodiments are not limited to this case and management may be performed while paying attention to other examples of the quality such as the depth of the quality of image data the sampling frequency of sound of sound data or the bit length of sound of sound data. In addition sound data may be transmitted received separately in items of data of three types of resolutions high resolution intermediate resolution and low resolution .

Although the IP address of each terminal is managed in the embodiments are not limited to this case and any information for identifying each terminal in the communication network such as the fully qualified domain name FQDN of each terminal may be managed. In this case an IP address corresponding to an FQDN is obtained by a Domain Name System DNS server.

In addition although the case of a videoconference system has been described as an example of the communication system in the above described embodiments the embodiments are not limited to this case and the communication system may be a phone system such as an IP phone system or an Internet phone system.

In addition the communication system may be a car navigation system. In this case for example one of two terminals corresponds to a car navigation apparatus mounted on a car and the other terminal corresponds to a management terminal or a management server of a management center that manages car navigation or a car navigation apparatus mounted on another car. In addition the terminals may be configured by cellular phones in the communication system .

In addition although image data and sound data are described as examples of content data in the above described embodiments the content data is not limited to these items of data and the content data may be touch data. In this case a feeling obtained by a user s contact at one terminal side is transmitted to the other terminal side.

Further the content data may be smell data. In this case a smell at one terminal side is transmitted to the other terminal side. In addition the content data may be at least one of image data sound data touch data and smell data.

In addition although the case in which a videoconference is held by the communication system has been described in the above described embodiments the embodiments are not limited to this case. The communication system may be used in meetings general conversation between family members or friends or one way presentation of information.

Numerous additional modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings. It is therefore to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the disclosure of the present invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described herein. For example elements and or features of different illustrative embodiments may be combined with each other and or substituted for each other within the scope of this disclosure and appended claims.

Each of the functions of the described embodiments may be implemented by one or more processing circuits or circuitry. Processing circuitry includes a programmed processor as a processor includes circuitry. A processing circuit also includes devices such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC and conventional circuit components arranged to perform the recited functions.

The present invention can be implemented in any convenient form for example using dedicated hardware or a mixture of dedicated hardware and software. The present invention may be implemented as computer software implemented by one or more networked processing apparatuses. The network can comprise any conventional terrestrial or wireless communications network such as the Internet. The processing apparatuses can compromise any suitably programmed apparatuses such as a general purpose computer personal digital assistant mobile telephone such as a WAP or 3G compliant phone and so on. Since the present invention can be implemented as software each and every aspect of the present invention thus encompasses computer software implementable on a programmable device. The computer software can be provided to the programmable device using any storage medium for storing processor readable code such as a floppy disk hard disk CD ROM magnetic tape device or solid state memory device.

The hardware platform includes any desired kind of hardware resources including for example a central processing unit CPU a random access memory RAM and a hard disk drive HDD . The CPU may be implemented by any desired kind of any desired number of processor. The RAM may be implemented by any desired kind of volatile or non volatile memory. The HDD may be implemented by any desired kind of non volatile memory capable of storing a large amount of data. The hardware resources may additionally include an input device an output device or a network device depending on the type of the apparatus. Alternatively the HDD may be provided outside of the apparatus as long as the HDD is accessible. In this example the CPU such as a cache memory of the CPU and the RAM may function as a physical memory or a primary memory of the apparatus while the HDD may function as a secondary memory of the apparatus.

