---

title: Bore healing mechanism
abstract: A device is provided for repairing erosion damage to a bore of a railgun with metal powder. The bore has a surface contour that extends longitudinally of the railgun. The device includes a housing, a profilometer sensor and a nozzle. The housing has a configuration that conforms to the surface contour and an upstream face on a longitudinal end. The profilometer sensor mounts to the upstream face to measure depth of the erosion and indicate a divot in the bore that involves repair to match the surface contour. The nozzle mounts to the upstream face to spray the metal powder from a reservoir within the housing in response to the divot indicated by the profilometer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09523547&OS=09523547&RS=09523547
owner: The United States Of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09523547
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150708
---
The invention described was made in the performance of official duties by one or more employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the invention herein may be manufactured used or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

When a gun type weapon is discharged the projectile bullet travels through the weapon s bore at a high relative velocity. The bullet to bore interaction produces a finite amount of wear on the bore. After some number of wear cycles the bore dilates to a critical point and can no longer be deemed safe to operate. In railgun firings the interaction between the armature and bore is much more complicated than that of a conventional chemical based weapon due to the high level of electrical energy that can cause erosion damage in specific locations within the bore.

Due to the high erosion in railgun designs from electrical energy exposure there is need for a process for repairing the bore to avoid the cost of completely replacing the worn bore. Conventional maintenance techniques yield disadvantages addressed by various exemplary embodiments of the present invention. In particular exemplary embodiments provide a device for repairing erosion damage to a bore of a railgun with metal powder.

The bore has a surface contour that extends longitudinally of the railgun. The device includes a housing a profilometer sensor and a nozzle. The housing has a configuration that conforms to the surface contour and an upstream face on a longitudinal end. The profilometer sensor mounts to the upstream face to measure depth of the erosion and indicate a divot in the bore that involves repair to match the surface contour. The nozzle mounts to the upstream face to spray the metal powder from a reservoir within the housing in response to the divot indicated by the profilometer.

This and other objects are realized by the present invention one embodiment of which relates to a method for the repair and healing of worn weapons bores. This includes subjecting the bores to cold spraying to deposit bore material at the worn locations therein. Additional aspects and or advantages of the invention will be set forth in part in the description which follows and in part will be obvious from the description or may be learned by practice of the invention.

In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized and logical mechanical and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

Exemplary embodiments are predicated on the discovery that worn bores can be restored to substantially their original condition utilizing dynamic cold spraying technology. These embodiments enable the addition of bore material to the locations within the bore that have been damaged from erosion by repeated firings thereby greatly extending the service life thereof.

Dynamic cold spraying or cold spraying technology is a coating deposition method that accelerates metals polymers or composite material powders at supersonic speeds towards a substrate surface. The imposition of the powder particle upon the surface causes plastic deformation of the particles resulting in the adherence thereof to the substrate surface. Moreover the employment of gas dynamic cold spraying enables the utilization of powders of metals dissimilar from that of the bore should the occasion arise to impart different material properties in discrete locations throughout the length of the bore. Metal powder can be ejected unheated onto the surface contour of the bore to fill in detected divots thereby referred to as a cold spraying technique.

The profilometer sensors and provide feedback as to the amount of deposition required to successfully repair any void crack or dilation of the core. A nozzle dispenses powder onto the bore surface. The powder can consist of the same metal composition as the bore surface or of a stronger metal composition. The powder feeding into the nozzle is stored in a hopper . The powder is accelerated by a high pressure line that feeds into the mechanism . Particle velocity of the powder is maximized through the nozzle to achieve optimal deposition as the mechanism travels longitudinally along the bore.

The tracks on which the nozzle and the pluming follow the lateral contour of the bore. While traveling laterally the nozzle pivots to being normal to the tracks . This ensures that the direction of the particulate spray from the nozzle is tangential to the geometry of the surface of the bore. The nozzle tracks are designed to be offset a predetermined distance from the bore geometry surface and therefore offset the nozzle from the bore surface at a predetermined distance to optimize material deposition.

Exemplary embodiments thus enable the repair and healing of damaged or heavily worn bores thereby postponing or even eliminating the necessity of replacement thereof. This effect reduces costs of the operation of the weapon system throughout its lifetime. The bore repairing system of the invention enables the repair of bores in situ as opposed to detachment the barrel or core and shipping to a remote location thereby conserving time and money especially in mission critical scenarios.

Although the invention has been disclosed in the context of certain preferred embodiments and examples it will be understood by those skilled in the art that the present invention extends beyond the specifically disclosed embodiments to other alternative embodiments and or uses of the invention and obvious modifications and equivalents thereof. Thus it is intended that the scope of the present invention herein disclosed should not be limited by the particular disclosed embodiments described above but should be determined only by a fair reading of the claims that follow.

While certain features of the embodiments of the invention have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

