---

title: Dynamic location-based mapping system and method
abstract: A system for providing a geographic location based information having a server which comprises a transceiver which is operated to receive a request for the geographic location based information of the plurality of people and a processor to locate, to determine a count, to represent the count as a pair of counters in a plurality of blocks and update the count at each counter. A user interface is configured to display the plurality of blocks with the pair of counters. The cloud server dynamically stores/updates user settings and interests of all network devices, stores advertisers static locations and updates ads based off users inputs and populates stored information on universal map shared by all users and also receives request to filter user's map by a Label and determines all users in viewing window of map that have that Label saved in their profiles and then sends results to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09485617&OS=09485617&RS=09485617
owner: 
number: 09485617
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20150113
---
This embodiment relates generally to location mapping and sharing is between a network of devices and more particularly to a dynamic location based mapping system and method configured for providing geographic location based information of a plurality of people at a plurality of locations based on the demographic characteristic of the plurality of people.

Electronic location based mapping systems are useful for allowing users to generate mapping representations for a wide variety of geographical locations. Everyone has a different definition for an ideal location. For instance young people may define an ideal location as beach or location having a younger crowd while older people may define an ideal location as park or location with a more relaxed crowd. The question where is everyone is common among people getting ready to go out to a particular location. People may be looking for more specific traits such as the gender mix age mix etc. The problem is that most people do not exactly know which locations are ideal. When a person determines that he or she wants to visit a location such as a restaurant a grocery store bar etc. that person often has to rely on word of mouth from others or reviewing of social networking sites or blindly select a location without knowing the importance and specialties of that location. Thus people may choose not to leave home due to the lack of information regarding the location activity.

Recent advances in the art provide electronic location based mapping systems accessible over wide area networks such as the Internet that are widely used to locate the people in the ideal location based on specific traits. The location based mapping systems are configured to provide and display mapping information to handheld devices such as cellular telephones handheld computers personal digital assistants PDAs and the like. These handheld devices may communicate with the mapping system wirelessly or through a wired connection to a computer.

Various location sharing and viewing applications have been available via a plethora of networks. However these location sharing interfaces do not allow users to simultaneously determine for example the ratio of men to women in a particular location. Traditional sharing interfaces do not provide access to paid advertisements by local establishments events etc. People using the current location sharing applications cannot view entire continents and determine the count of males and females throughout the viewing area window which would allow them to get population estimates based on users in a network.

Furthermore the current applications do not allow people to locate clusters of large amounts of people where they can then zoom to view finer clusters whether to plan outings around being close to others or avoiding them. For instance it an individual is new to an area and wants to socialize but doesn t know where their select crowd hangs out whether it be at the beach park etc. the individual might go to the beach with the thought of it being crowded but when he she arrives realizes its empty. Therefore the individual may have a difficult time selecting a location or business establishment to visit that is likely to result in a satisfying experience.

Some of the existing systems provide users with the ability to see other users using a maps application programming interface API however the users must request to see one another or the users must create profiles or log in with names for example be facebook friends or already have a relationship. Thus such systems do not provide anonymity for the users specific locations. Moreover these systems do not provide users with the ability to view everyone in the network on the map simultaneously and or do not have counters that display the count of users in the viewing area of the maps. Some applications are meant for small to medium scaled location sharing and the users must create groups where they invite people to share locations.

Some of the other existing systems receive information associated with locations of multiple people where the information is derived based on each of the people s use of an electronic device. The system cross references the locations of multiple people to locations of one or more places where people get together to determine the number of people who are located at the one or more places. The system further provides a visual representation of the popularity of each of the places to a user device based on the determined number of the people who are located at one or more places. However such applications do not embody the concept of anonymity no user can identify another user coupled with the ability to only distinguish the count of males and females within a viewing area window.

Furthermore some other systems require the personal information of users and the information is viewable to other users. The mobile devices in network are linked to one another and so the exact locations of the users can be viewed. Most of these systems do not have the ability to temporarily disable the viewable location and cannot set specific locations where the user would not be presented.

Therefore there is a need for a dynamic location based mapping system and method configured providing geographic location based information of a plurality of people at one or more locations based on the demographic characteristic of the people. Such a needed system and method would provide a count of the plurality of people in a designated area based on the demographic characteristic of the people. Further the needed system and method would provide an integrated application programming interface API to show the geographic location based information of the plurality of people in a plurality of blocks based on the demographic characteristic of the people. In addition the needed system and method would include a pair of counters in each block one counter shows the count of males and other one shows the count of females. This needed system and method would determine the ratio of males and females not only within a given location but entire regions on a map. Furthermore the plurality of blocks would protect the anonymity of people in a viewing area window distinguish the count of males and females per block and make it easier for the people to view large counts of people on a map by organizing them into blocks with counters that can be read as numerical figures depicting the population of people in the viewing area window. Moreover this system and method would provide access to paid advertisements that can be displayed in the viewing area window by local establishments events etc. The present embodiment accomplishes these objectives.

The present embodiment is a system for providing the geographic location based information of a plurality of people on a network. The system includes a server that comprises a transceiver that is operated to receive a request for the geographic location based information of the plurality of people and a processor. The processor having a first module which is configured to locate the plurality of people at a plurality of locations based on the received geographic location a second module to determine a count of the plurality of people at each of the plurality of locations based on a demographic characteristic of the plurality of people and a third module to represent the count of the plurality of people at each of the plurality of locations as a pair of counters in a plurality of blocks based on the demographic characteristic of the plurality of people. Further the processor having a fourth module is configured to update the count of the plurality of people at each counter in each block of the plurality of blocks based on the demographic characteristic of the plurality of people. The server further comprises a memory that is operated to store information and instructions for execution by the processor.

The plurality of electronic devices is configured to enable a connection with the server via a user interface. The user interface is an application programming interface API that is configured to receive the count of the plurality of people at each of the plurality of locations based on the demographic characteristic of the plurality of people. The user interface is further configured to display the plurality of blocks with the pair of counters. The count of the plurality of people is dynamically updated based on each of the plurality of locations and the demographic characteristic of the plurality of people.

The user interface is provided with a search bar that enables a user to map the plurality of people at the plurality of locations. The demographic characteristic of the plurality of people is categorized by gender to determine a ratio of males to females. The user interface shows the mapping of the plurality of people by the pair of counters in a plurality of blocks. For instance the plurality of blocks includes nine square blocks with two counters in each block. One counter defines the count of the males and other one defines the count of the females. The plurality of blocks is configured to protect the anonymity of the plurality of the people and the plurality of locations of the plurality of people. The plurality of blocks provides the user the count of the plurality of people at each of the plurality of locations and distinguishes the count of males and females in each block. The system allows the user to view large counts of the plurality of people on the map by organizing into the plurality of blocks with the pair of counters. Each counter denotes a numerical figure of males and females respectively. Thus the pair of counters in each block of the plurality of blocks separately determines the count of males and females among the plurality of people at the plurality of locations.

In one embodiment a method for providing geographic location based information of a plurality of people on a network is provided. Initially the at least one electronic device requests the geographic location based information of the plurality of people at a plurality of locations. A server receives the request through a transceiver. A processor processes the request on the server having a first module to locate the plurality of people at the plurality of locations based on the received geographic location. The processor having a second module determines a count of the plurality of people at each of the plurality of locations based on a demographic characteristic of the plurality of people. Then the third module of the processor represents the count of the plurality of people at each of the plurality of locations as a pair of counters in a plurality of blocks based on the demographic characteristic of the plurality of people.

The count of the plurality of people at each counter in each block of the plurality of blocks is updated based on a demographic characteristic of the plurality of people by the fourth module of the processor. A user interface on the plurality of electronic devices receives the count of the plurality of people at each of the plurality of locations based on the demographic characteristic of the plurality of people. Finally the user interface on the plurality of electronic devices displays the plurality of blocks with the pair of counters. The pair of counters provides the count of the plurality of people at each of the plurality of locations based on the demographic characteristic of the plurality of people.

The system is configured to stream location data in real time to yield a measure of how busy a number of business locations are. The system allows the users to map search option filter interests to view others with similar interests set privacy that allow users the ability to set the home locations as invisible set additional privacy that allow users the ability to set the current locations to invisible for a range of time up to four hours. Further ads pop up on bottom of map depending on user s input or just by the user panning the map across a region where businesses are advertising. Multiple advertisements can be visible by swiping banner right or left to view next advertisement. Additionally advertisement banners can be swiped in an upward motion to show more information. The users can log in by downloading the client installed application choosing the option Male or Female. The users can login in by inputting an email address or logging in with Facebook or Twitter. The system provides the ability to anonymously locate the plurality of people by accessing the GPS information and uploading it to a central server where it is logged for retrieval. The application checks the user s location and updates the log in regular intervals. Thus the count of females and male are dynamically updated at the pair of counters in the plurality of blocks.

The system allows filtering the map to see people with similar interests and displays local advertisements for entertainment in the viewing area. Further the system also allows businesses to update ads instantly to promote upcoming events specials entertainment etc. These ads can be updated at any time and as many times as the business needs plus they can be easily created and edited through the application and website.

Other features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following more detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings which illustrate by way of example the principles of the invention.

The following describes example embodiments in which the present invention may be practiced. This invention however may be embodied in many different ways and the description provided herein should not be construed as limiting in any way. Among other things the following invention may be embodied as methods or devices. As such the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects. The following detailed descriptions should not be taken in a limiting sense.

In this document the terms a or an are used as is common in patent documents to include one or more than one. In this document the term or is used to refer to a nonexclusive or such that A or B includes A but not B but not A and A and B unless otherwise indicated. Furthermore all publications patents and patent documents referred to in this document are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety as though individually incorporated by reference. In the event of inconsistent usages between this document and those documents so incorporated by reference the usage in the incorporated reference s should be considered supplementary to that of this document for irreconcilable inconsistencies the usage in this document controls.

A wide range of location mapping systems and methods has been developed for providing geographical location data via a plethora of networks. However these location sharing interfaces do not allow users to simultaneously determine the ratio of men to women in a particular location establishment or place. Traditional sharing interfaces do not provide access to paid advertisements by local establishments events etc. People using the current location sharing applications cannot view entire continents and determine the count of males and females throughout the viewing area window which would allow them to get population estimates based on users in a network. Moreover current systems do not embody the concept of anonymity no user can identify another user and coupled with the ability to only distinguish count of males and females within a viewing area window. The present embodiment overcomes the shortcomings of prior embodiments by providing a dynamic location based mapping system and method.

Referring now to a diagrammatic view of a system for providing a geographic location based information of a plurality of people on a network in accordance with the preferred embodiment of the present invention is illustrated and generally designated by the reference numeral . The system comprises a server that can be coupled remotely to a plurality of electronic devices . . . via a network or alternatively the communications network . The server is configured to provide the geographic location based information of the plurality of people in a cloud environment. The network can correspond to a cloud network. As used herein the cloud network includes a style of computing in which computing resources such as application programs and file storage are remotely provided over the network. The network may include a plurality of networks of any type including a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN a telephone network such as the public switched telephone network PSTN or a public land mobile network PLMN an intranet the Internet or a combination of networks. The PLMN may further include a packet switched sub network such as for example general packet radio service GPRS cellular digital packet data CDPD or mobile IP sub network.

The serves comprises a cloud based server that can represent one and or more hardware and software cloud servers providing multiple server functions. The server hosts at least one software module programmed to populate maps of the plurality of people and associated interests the plurality of locations and demographic characteristics and at least one database module adapted for storing the detailed activity maps interests and demographic characteristics of the plurality of people. The plurality of electronic devices through can be implemented as a thick client and execute a client installed application that is programmed to request maps of the plurality of people at the plurality of locations based on the demographic characteristics. The plurality of locations as referred to herein may include any place where people get together e.g. for a common purpose or interest including but not limited to places for eating visiting exhibitions dancing etc. For instance a plurality of places include restaurants nightclubs casinos bowling allies bars theaters concert arenas theme parks public parks and stores e.g. grocery stores clothing stores a shopping mall etc. cafes gas stations stadiums schools and museums.

The client installed application that provides the system runs on any mobile device or it may also run on a general purpose computer. For purposes of illustration and without limitation the software may run on Palm Blackberry Windows Mobile or Open Handset Alliance Android devices iPhone devices or a personal computer running Windows OS X Linux or any other operating system. The software that runs on the device may run in the background e.g. as a service daemon etc. it may run as a script on a webpage or it may run as an application in the operating system on the device.

The plurality of electronic devices through and the server is connected to the network via wired or wireless links. The plurality of people may carry and or use respective plurality of electronic devices through . The plurality of electronic devices through may include cellular radiotelephones smartphones cell phones personal digital assistants PDAs personal communications systems PCS terminals computers e.g. laptop tablet desktop or palmtop computers or any other type of appliance that includes a communication transceiver that permits the plurality of electronic devices through to communicate via the network .

In an embodiment the plurality of electronic devices through may provide geographic location based information e.g. GPS geo location data to the server . The server may receive geographic location based information from the plurality of electronic devices through e.g. GPS geo location data via the network and may reference the received geographic location to determine how many people are currently located at each of the plurality of locations. The determined is count of the plurality of people at each of the plurality of locations is based on a demographic characteristic of the plurality of people and is used as an indicator of popularity of the plurality of locations. The server may represent the count of the plurality of people at each of the plurality of locations as a pair of counters in a plurality of blocks See based on the demographic characteristic of the plurality of people to the plurality of electronic devices through via the network .

Referring now to are block diagrams of the system for providing the geographic location based information of a plurality of people on a network in accordance with the preferred embodiment of the present invention. The server comprises a transceiver that is operated to receive a request for the geographic location based information of the plurality of people. A processor on the server having a first module is configured to locate the plurality of people at the plurality of locations based on the received geographic location. A second module at the processor to determine a count of the plurality of people at each of the plurality of locations based on a demographic characteristic of the plurality of people and a third module at the processor to represent the count of the plurality of people at each of the plurality of locations as the pair of counters in the plurality of blocks based on the demographic characteristic of the plurality of people. Further the processor having a fourth module is configured to update the count of the plurality of people at each counter in each block based on the demographic characteristic of the plurality of people. The server further comprises a memory that is operated to store information and instructions for execution by the processor .

The plurality of electronic devices through is configured to enable a connection with the server via a user interface . The user interface is an application programming interface API that is configured to receive the count of the plurality of people at each of the plurality of locations based on the demographic characteristic of the plurality of people. The user interface is further configured to display the plurality of blocks with the pair of counters . The count of the plurality of people is dynamically updated based on each of the plurality of locations and the demographic characteristic of the plurality of people. In an embodiment the user interface is hosted in a cloud platform that provides central processing for demographic characteristic of the plurality of people from each of the plurality of locations. Here the cloud computing may replace the functionality provided by a central server. The cloud platform dynamically stores updates GPS coordinates and settings interests of the plurality of people of all network devices stores advertisers static locations updates advertisements based on inputs of the plurality of people at the plurality of locations and populates stored information on universal map shared by the plurality of people. The cloud platform receives labels from profile stores and makes retrievable to all users on the network. Then receives request to filter user s map by a label and determines all users in viewing window of map that have that label saved in their profiles and then sends results to user.

The plurality of blocks is configured to protect the anonymity of the plurality of the people the plurality of locations of the plurality of people. The plurality of blocks provides the user the count of the plurality of people at each of the one or more locations and distinguishes the count of males and females in each counter . The system allows the user to view large counts of the plurality of people on the map by organizing into the plurality of blocks with the pair of counters . Each counter denotes a numerical figure of males and females respectively. Thus the pair of counters in each block separately determines the count of males and females respectively among the plurality of people at the plurality of locations.

The user interface allows the users to search desired locations scroll across map and zoom in and out and view dynamically updated counts of males and to females. The user s personal information is not viewable to other users and the plurality of electronic devices through in the network is not linked to one another. The locations of the users are not viewed since the pair of counters is adding up the males and females at the plurality of locations and displayed as numerical figures in the respective counters . The system allows the users to temporarily disable the is viewable location and can set specific locations where the users will not be counted.

At least one electronic device is represented as a business entity establishment who purchases advertisement space Ad space from the client installed application executed in the at least one electronic device . The at least one electronic device allows users to display the local specials advertisements businesses for entertainment in the advertisement space Ad space on the user interface . The Ad space offers perfect situation for establishing business for any business entity establishment at e.g. food or entertainment industry. The at least one electronic device allows the business entity establishment to update advertisements instantly to promote current or upcoming events specials entertainment etc. in the Ad space .

The Ad space delivers digital content or advertisements to the user based upon the plurality of locations that the user want to go around. The Ad space displays the location that is closest to the center point of the users at the bottom portion of the map. The system allows the user to swipe through the advertisements and view more information clearly. The client installed application may provide a list of general common interests traits such as age range relationship status favorite music genre favorite sports teams etc. the users can select and then filter the map by the common interests traits. The system delivers search results advertisements or content to the users based upon locations the users is known to have previously visited and the advertisements based upon the types of businesses that the users of the plurality of electronic devices through typically visits.

In one embodiment the user interface allows the user to choose specific interest and enables the user to update the map of others on the network . For instance the user interface allows the user to choose whether the user is single in relationship or married. When another user chooses single in relationship or married the map of the user will only count and view the count of single in relationship or married based on the selection. Thus the system allows the user to filter the map to view the plurality of people with similar interests.

The count of the plurality of people at each counter in each block of the plurality of block is updated based on a demographic characteristic of the plurality of people by the processor as indicated at block . A user interface on the plurality of electronic devices receives the count of the plurality of people at each of the plurality of locations based on the demographic characteristic of the plurality of people as indicated at block . Finally the user interface on the plurality of electronic devices displays the plurality of blocks with the pair of counters as indicated at block . The pair of counters provides the count of the plurality of people at each of the plurality of locations based on the demographic characteristic of the plurality of people.

The system described herein enables the plurality of people to make choices about the locations to visit by using popularity information derived from the current and or past geographic location based information of the plurality of people. The system obtains geographic location based information of the plurality of people from the plurality of electronic devices through and use the geographic location based information to determine the location of the plurality of people relative to the plurality of locations. When the location of the plurality of people is determined the count of the plurality of people located at each of the plurality of locations is identified. Then the count of the plurality of people is categorized based on the demographic characteristic of the plurality of people. The count of the males and females are represented by the pair of counters in the plurality of blocks . Thus the ratio of males and females can be determined using the pair of counters in the plurality of blocks . The count of the plurality of people located at each location is used as an indication of a popularity of each location. For example if the plurality of blocks shows a large number of people in the pair of counters located at a certain restaurant relative to fewer people located at other restaurants can be used as an indication that the certain restaurant is more popular than the other restaurant. Similarly if the plurality of blocks shows a large number of females in the counter located at a park comparative to males in is the counter can be used as an indication that the certain park is occupied with females than males. The plurality of people may view the pair of counters indicating the count of the plurality of people located at the different locations to select a location that they want to visit. The graphical representation may display current and or past numbers of people located at the different business entities establishments.

The system is configured to stream location data in real time to yield a measure of how busy a number of business locations are. The system allows the users to map search option filter interests to view others with similar interests set privacy that allow users the ability to set the home locations as invisible set additional privacy that allow users the ability to set the current locations to invisible for a range of time up to four hours. Further the system displays advertisement banners that include local advertisements at bottom of map depending on user s interest. Multiple advertisements can be visible by swiping banner right or left to view next advertisement. Additionally advertisement banners can be swiped in an upward motion to show more information. The users can tog in by downloading the client installed application choosing the option male or female and acknowledging an age requirement. The system provides the ability to anonymously locate the plurality of people by accessing the GPS information and uploading it to a central server where it is logged for retrieval. The application checks the user s location and updates the log in every five minutes. Thus the count of females and males are dynamically updated at the pair of counters in the plurality of blocks .

While a particular form of the invention has been illustrated and described it will be apparent that various modifications can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. For example the inner panel may be made of different materials or sizes that can be customized to fit with any cabinet door. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the appended claims.

