---

title: Guided-wave photodiode using through-absorber quantum-well-intermixing and methods thereof
abstract: The present invention includes a high-speed, high-saturation power detector (e.g., a photodiode) compatible with a relatively simple monolithic integration process. In particular embodiments, the photodiode includes an intrinsic bulk absorption region, which is grown above a main waveguide core including a number of quantum wells (QWs) that are used as the active region of a phase modulator. The invention also includes methods of fabricating integrated photodiode and waveguide assemblies using a monolithic, simplified process.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09477040&OS=09477040&RS=09477040
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09477040
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150716
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 62 025 656 filed Jul. 17 2014 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with Government support under contract no. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to integrated optoelectronic e.g. photodiode structures and methods for making and using such structures.

Monolithic integration of optoelectronic components can provide numerous benefits including reductions in size cost weight and power dissipation as well as new functionality that cannot be emulated by discrete components. For instance when discrete components are used these components must be coupled e.g. using an optical fiber or optical splice . Such coupling techniques can result in optical loss costly packaging required for each component and decreased reliability due to mechanical interconnection issues. Thus additional methods to simplify monolithic integration are desired.

To maximize versatility such methods should allow a circuit designer to include any number of useful components on a single photonic integrated circuit PIC . Exemplary optoelectronic components semiconductor lasers amplifiers attenuators photodiodes electroabsorption modulators active ring resonators and various low loss waveguide components. For instance quantum well intermixing QWI is a powerful technique for selectively modifying the spatial profile of a quantum well. Further methods are desired which can be used in combination with QWI to provide any number of components side by side on a single PIC without degrading or compromising performance of such component s .

Accordingly the present invention includes a high speed high saturation power detector e.g. a photodiode compatible with a relatively simple monolithic integration process. The photodiode includes an intrinsic bulk absorption region which is grown above a main waveguide core including a number of quantum wells QWs that are used as the active region of a phase modulator. Through absorber quantum well intermixing is used to blue shift the bandedge of the underlying quantum wells reducing the optical losses of that material. In addition the detector and modulator can include any other useful structures e.g. an electron drift region bandgap grade layer s field termination layer s cladding layer s contact layer s confinement layer s etc. such as any described herein. In one embodiment the detector demonstrated 90 quantum efficiency 16 dBm input saturation power and 3 dB bandwidth of 50 GHz.

In particular embodiments the photodiode design not only enables desired characteristics but eliminates the need for a photodiode specific epitaxial regrowth step. For example in the process herein the photodiode structure is included in the first epitaxial growth along with the required main waveguide core below. Using this process we were able to blue shift the bandedge of the QWs residing within the waveguide core by diffusing point defects through the detector structure thereby maintaining the ability to tailor the bandedge of the MQW with the detector layers already in place. This simplifies the process by eliminating the photodiode specific regrowth step.

Accordingly the present invention features a method of fabricating an integrated structure the method including i providing a base structure including a multiple quantum well MQW region and a detector region e.g. photodiode region ii introducing impurities creating vacancies or heating through the detector region and into the MQW region thereby producing an intermixed MQW region and iii depositing one or more cladding layers on the detector or detector region e.g. photodiode or photodiode region .

In some embodiments the base structure includes the MQW region underlying the photodiode region. In other embodiments the MQW region is disposed between two confinement layers. In some embodiments the photodiode region includes an absorption region an electron drift region and or a sub collector region. In yet other embodiments the base structure further includes an implant layer disposed above the photodiode region.

In other embodiments the base structure further includes a waveguide region disposed beneath the photodiode region where the waveguide region includes the MQW region. In some embodiments the base structure further includes a field termination layer disposed between the photodiode region and the waveguide region. In other embodiments the base structure further includes an n type cladding layer and or an n type contact layer disposed beneath the MQW region.

In some embodiments the method includes prior to step ii patterning a top surface of the base structure with a mask to define an active region and a passive region. In other embodiments the method further includes removing the mask.

In some embodiments step ii includes implanting an ion e.g. any herein such as P into the base structure e.g. thereby creating an implanted structure . In other embodiments step ii further includes annealing the implanted structure e.g. thereby diffusing one or more vacancies through the photodiode region and into the MQW region and producing the intermixed MQW region .

In some embodiments the method further includes prior to step iii patterning a top surface of the base structure with a photodiode mask to define at least one dimension of a photodiode where the photodiode includes a portion of the photodiode region. In other embodiments the method includes removing a portion of the base structure e.g. a portion of the photodiode region thereby releasing the photodiode from the base structure.

In some embodiments the method further includes after step iii depositing one or more contact layers e.g. n or p type contact layers on at least a portion of the one or more cladding layers.

In another aspect the invention features a method of fabricating an integrated structure e.g. any herein the method including i providing a base structure including a MQW region and a photodiode region ii patterning a top surface of the base structure with a hard mask to define an active region and a passive region iii introducing impurities creating vacancies or heating through the photodiode region and into the MQW region thereby producing an intermixed MQW region within the active region iv removing the hard mask thereby exposing a top surface of the base structure having the intermixed MQW region v patterning a top surface of the base structure with a photodiode mask to define a photodiode where the photodiode includes a portion of the photodiode region and vi removing a portion of the base structure thereby releasing the photodiode from the base structure.

In further embodiments the method includes vii depositing one or more cladding layers on the photodiode region thereby providing a cladded base structure.

In other embodiments the method includes viii depositing and or patterning one or more contact layers on a top surface or a bottom surface of the cladded base structure.

In some embodiments step iii includes implanting an ion e.g. any described herein such as P into the base structure thereby creating an implanted structure and or annealing the implanted structure thereby diffusing one or more vacancies through the photodiode region and into the MQW region and producing the intermixed MQW region.

In yet another aspect the invention features an assembly e.g. an integrated assembly fabricated by any method described herein. In some embodiment the assembly includes a monolithically integrated photodiode and waveguide.

In any embodiment herein the base structure includes a waveguide region including a MQW region a first confinement layer disposed above the MQW region and a second confinement layer disposed below the MQW region a photodiode region disposed above the waveguide region a field termination layer disposed between the photodiode region and the waveguide region and an implant layer disposed above the photodiode region. In other embodiments the base structure further includes an n type cladding layer and or an n type contact layer disposed beneath the waveguide region.

In any embodiment herein the base structure further includes one or more bandgap grade layers between two layers having a heterointerface or a different bandgap separation.

As used herein the term about means 10 of any recited value. As used herein this term modifies any recited value range of values or endpoints of one or more ranges.

As used herein the terms top bottom upper lower above and below are used to provide a relative relationship between structures. The use of these terms does not indicate or require that a particular structure must be located at a particular location in the apparatus.

Other features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the following description and the claims.

The present invention relates to an integrated structure having a multiple quantum well MQW region as well as methods of fabricating such structures. In particular the structures and methods herein allow for simplified integration of structures to form a monolithic optoelectronic assembly e.g. for use in photonic integrated circuits .

The integrated structures of the present invention include quantum wells which provide potential wells with discrete energy values. Multiple quantum well structures MQWs i.e. those having a plurality of quantum wells can be employed in any useful optoelectronic component such as semiconductor lasers modulators resonators photodiodes etc. MQW regions generally include one or more quantum wells where each well is located between two barrier regions. In general a plurality of alternating thin layers of lower and higher bandgap materials is used to support quantum wells and barriers. Additional details follow.

Quantum wells and MQWs can be fabricated in any useful manner. In general a quantum well is a heterostructure formed with a layer of a first semiconductor material having a lower bandgap e.g. GaAs which is then sandwiched between two barrier regions or barrier layers of a second semiconductor material having a wider or higher bandgap e.g. AlGaAs . Materials for quantum wells and barriers e.g. any described herein as well as thin films thereof can be deposited in any useful manner including chemical vapor diffusion CVD such as metal organic CVD MOCVD metal organic vapor phase epitaxy MOVPE and molecular beam epitaxy MBE .

Any useful process can be employed to form MQWs. In one example the process employs quantum well intermixing QWI . QWI involves any number of processes that either introduces impurities or creates vacancies into an as grown heterointerface or heterostructure e.g. in an as grown MQW region . Heterointerfaces are generally metastable as materials at these interfaces tend to interdiffuse. Impurities and vacancies accelerate this interdiffusion process. Exemplary QWI processes include impurity induced disordering IID which employs a dopant as an impurity to promote intermixing impurity free vacancy enhanced disordering IFVD which is implemented by coating a structure with a dielectric film e.g. SiO and annealing the structure to create point defects photoabsorption induced disordering PAID which uses localized heating by lasers to promote intermixing and implantation enhanced interdiffusion which is implemented by implanting an ion into a structure and annealing the implanted structure to create point defects. Additional details of QWI processes are described in Marsh J H Quantum well intermixing 1993 8 1136 55 Skogen E J et al. Monolithically integrated active components A quantum well intermixing approach 2005 March April 11 2 343 55 Liu N et al. Enhanced photoluminescence emission from bandgap shifted InGaAs InGaAsP InP microstructures processed with UV laser quantum well intermixing 2013 46 445103 7 pp. Sonkar R K et al. Quantum well intermixed waveguide grating 2011 42 631 43 and Skogen E J Quantum well intermixing for wavelength agile photonic integrated circuits June 2003 185 pp. each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

In one embodiment QWI requires two steps a growth step to provide a MQW region including alternating materials for the quantum well s and barrier s and an intermixing step to diffuse point defects throughout the MQW region which promotes interdiffusion of atoms between the well and barrier regions. Interdiffusion in turn changes the quantum well profile such that the intermixed MQW region generally has increased energy e.g. a blue shifted bandgap as compared to the as grown MQW region. In one particular embodiment the intermixing step includes implanting an ion e.g. any herein to provide an implanted structure and annealing the implanted structure.

These QWI processes can be used to fabricate an integrated structure. provides an exemplary method for fabricating an integrated photodiode waveguide structure . First a base structure can be provided where the base structure includes an implant layer one or more stop etch layers a photodiode region a waveguide region and an n type cladding or a substrate e.g. such as those including InP InP Fe or InP Si as well as n type substrates .

The photodiode region includes an absorption region and an electron drift region or collector region . Exemplary materials include those for the absorption region e.g. those including neutral or intrinsic InGaAs InGaAs Zn InAlAs or p type InGaAs or the electron drift region e.g. those including 1.0Q material InP InGaAsP or InGaAs including undoped or doped e.g. n doped forms thereof .

The waveguide region generally includes a core disposed between two confinement regions . In particular embodiments the core includes a MQW region . In some embodiments the MQW region includes n quantum wells separated by n 1 or n 1 barriers where n is an integer of from 1 to 20 e.g. from 4 to 20 . In other embodiments the wells and barriers are formed from InGaAsP or InAlGaAs. Exemplary materials for the confinement regions include InGaAsP Si 1.3Q Si . In yet other embodiments to maximize optical mode overlap the MQW region is located in the center of the waveguide region.

As shown in the QWI process can be performed through the photodiode region and into the waveguide region having the MQW region to provide an intermixed MQW region . Using this process the bandedge of the QWs residing within the waveguide core can be blue shifted by diffusing point defects through the detector photodiode structure thereby maintaining the ability to tailor the bandedge of the MQW with the detector layers already in place. This simplifies the process by eliminating the photodiode specific regrowth step.

In particular the implant layer facilitates the QWI process by capturing the vacancies created by ion implantation. Removal of the implant layer halts diffusion of the vacancies and therefore allows for spatial control of forming intermixed MQW regions. In some embodiments the QWI process includes introducing impurities or creating vacancies through the photodiode region and into the MQW region e.g. by implanting an ion through the implant layer followed by annealing the resultant structure.

After the QWI process the implant layer and the stop etch layer s can be etched e.g. by employing any useful wet chemical etching process . Additional details on the QWI process are provided in Skogen E J Quantum well intermixing for wavelength agile photonic integrated circuits June 2003 185 pp. which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Then one or more photolithography steps such as patterning and removing or etching steps can be performed to release the photodiode. Any useful layer can be present between the photodiode and the waveguide region such as a field termination layer e.g. any described herein .

Finally one or more materials can be deposited to form the integrated structure . Exemplary materials include those for a cladding region e.g. a p type cladding material such as those including InP InP Zn or InGaAsP or an n type cladding material such as those including InP Si or a contact layer e.g. a p type contact layer such as those including InGaAs InGaAsP InGaAsP Zn or InGaAs Zn or an n type contact layer such as those including InP Si . The structure can include any number of optional materials such as one or more capping layers e.g. a p type InGaAsP and or anti reflective coatings e.g. SiO .

The implantation step includes exposing the structure to one or more ions . Any useful ion can be implanted in the structure including phosphorous boron fluorine silicon sulfur zinc or gallium under any useful condition e.g. an energy of about 100 to about 400 keV and an implantation temperature of about 200 C. .

The annealing step includes heating the structure to promote ion diffusion into the MQW region thereby forming an intermixed MQW region . Annealing can include rapid thermal annealing RTA at any useful temperature e.g. of about 600 C. to about 700 C. and any useful annealing time e.g. of from about 30 second to about 5 minutes . One or more annealing steps can be conducted to obtain the desired optical properties.

The etching step includes a process e.g. a wet chemical process to remove the implant layer and stop etch layer thereby exposing a surface of the absorption layer . Next the patterning step includes depositing one or more photodiode masks to define one or more dimensions of the photodiode to be integrated into the structure. Then a release step removes a portion of the base structure and provides the photodiode and waveguide disposed on the substrate or n cladding layer. Finally one or more depositing and or patterning steps can include depositing one or more p contact layers p type cladding layers n type cladding layers and or n type contact layers to provide the integrated structure . In particular embodiments the n type contact layer can be included on a bottom surface of the base structure or alternatively disposed on the top surface of the base structure by including one or more vias.

Either the intermixed MQW region or the as grown MQW region may underlie the photodiode region. For instance in some embodiments the intermixed MQW region can be beneficial because e.g. the blue shifted state can provides the proper peak photoluminescence wavelength and or beneficial optical transparency. In some embodiments the MQW region can be epitaxially grown under conditions to optimize performance e.g. phase modulation or gain . In other embodiments the active region encompasses the intermixed MQW region and the process can be configured to provide the photodiode region overlying the intermixed MQW region. provides an exemplary process in which the active region includes an intermixed MQW region.

The waveguide region can include intermixed MQW region s and or as grown MQW region s . For instance for a passive waveguide the waveguide region can include intermixed MQW region s and the process can be configured to provide a released waveguide encompassing an intermixed MQW region in its core. Alternatively the waveguide can include periodic regions of intermixed MQW region interspersed with as grown MQW regions such as that described in Younis U et al. Towards monolithic integration of nonlinear optical frequency conversion 2010 September 22 18 1358 60 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Additional steps can be conducted to complete the device. Exemplary steps include those to deposit n contact s and or p contact s such as by a lift off process deposit passivation layer s deposit proton implant layer s to minimize leakage provide vias to access particular layers within the structure solder wires and or other electrical connectors cut or separate dies polish or lap devices provide on a carrier substrate deposit anti reflection layer s and or package the device as well as any described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 564 387 8 014 639 8 363 990 and 8 687 665 Sysak M N et al. Integration of hybrid silicon lasers and electroabsorption modulators 2008 August 16 17 12478 86 Heck M J R et al. Hybrid silicon photonics for optical interconnects 2011 March April 17 2 333 46 Raring J W et al. Quantum well intermixing and MOCVD regrowth for the monolithic integration of 40 Gbit s UTC type photodiodes with QW based components 2005 September 41 18 1033 4 Raring J W et al. Design and demonstration of novel QW intermixing scheme for the integration of UTC type photodiodes with QW based components 2006 February 42 2 171 81 Skogen E J et al. A quantum well intermixing process for wavelength agile photonic integrated circuits 2002 July August 8 4 863 9 Skogen E J et al. Postgrowth control of the quantum well band edge for the monolithic integration of widely tunable lasers and electroabsorption modulators 2003 September October 9 5 1183 90 and Tauke Pedretti A et al. Mutual injection locking of monolithically integrated coupled cavity DBR lasers 2011 July 23 13 908 10 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The integrated structure can have any useful components regions and layers. For instance starting from the bottom surface of a structure the integrated structure can include a support substrate e.g. formed from intrinsic materials or n type or n doped materials . If the support substrate is formed from an insulating material e.g. InP Fe or GaAs then an n type cladding layer can be included between the support substrate and the active components of the structure e.g. the base structure including the waveguide and photodiode regions .

The active components of the structure generally include a waveguide region and a photodiode region. In some embodiments these regions are vertically coupled where the photodiode region is grown above the waveguide region.

The waveguide region can be a homostructure e.g. composed of a single structure capable of transmitting an optical signal or a heterostructure e.g. composed of two or more structures which generally include an optically transmitting core surrounded by a confinement region . In some embodiments the waveguide region is a heterostructure where a MQW region resides within the core. In other embodiments heterostructure includes a confinement region e.g. formed from any useful material such as any herein disposed beneath and or above the core.

The photodiode region typically includes an absorption region configured to absorb light. In one embodiment the photodiode region includes a PIN junction e.g. an intrinsic semiconductor material e.g. an intrinsic InGaAs i InGaAs absorption region disposed between a p type material and an n type material e.g. a p type and n type contact layers . In another embodiment the photodiode region includes a uni traveling carrier UTC junction having an absorption region e.g. composed of a p type material such as p InGaAs and an electron drift region e.g. composed of a widegap material such as i InP . In yet another embodiment the photodiode region includes a partially depleted absorber PDA junction having an absorption region e.g. composed of a p type material such as p InGaAs an electron drift region e.g. composed of a widegap material such as i InP or i InGaAs and an n type material e.g. any herein .

Exemplary photodiodes and photodiode regions are described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 564 387 Ishibashi T et al. InP InGaAs uni traveling carrier photodiodes 2000 June E83 C 6 938 49 Deri R J et al. Efficient vertical coupling of photodiodes to InGaAsP rib waveguides 1991 June 58 24 2749 51 Li N et al. High saturation current charge compensated InGaAs InP uni traveling carrier photodiode 2004 March 16 3 864 6 Raring J W et al. Quantum well intermixing and MOCVD regrowth for the monolithic integration of 40 Gbit s UTC type photodiodes with QW based components 2005 September 41 18 1033 4 Raring J W et al. Design and demonstration of novel QW intermixing scheme for the integration of UTC type photodiodes with QW based components 2006 February 42 2 171 81 and Skogen E J et al. Monolithically integrated active components A quantum well intermixing approach 2005 March April 11 2 343 55 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The photodiode region can include any other useful structures including one or more capping layers e.g. including p type materials such as intrinsic p type materials or p doped materials including p InGaAsP which can disposed between the p contact layer and the absorption region diffusion barriers and or sub collector regions e.g. including InP Si or n doped InP which can be disposed between the electron drift region and the waveguide region .

In addition one or more bandgap grade layers can be present between any heterointerface regions having different bandgaps. Such grade layers can include any useful material e.g. an impedance matching material including InGaAsP InGaAs InP Si InGaAs Zn or InP as well as doped forms e.g. n doped forms thereof.

Cladding material can be deposited to electrically and or optically isolate the different components in the integrated structure. Exemplary cladding materials include an insulator as well as any described herein. Optionally one or more waveguide rib structures can be included on a top surface of the base structure.

In one non limiting example the integrated structure includes a p type contact layer a bandgap grade layer a p type cladding layer a bandgap grade layer a photodiode region including an absorption region a bandgap grade layer and an electron drift region a field termination layer a waveguide region including an intermixed MQW region disposed between two confinement layers and an n type cladding layer . In some embodiments each of the bandgap grade layers can include one or more layers of materials configured to gradually change the bandgap energy or wavelength between the heterointerface present between two different layers e.g. between the p contact and cladding layers between the p cladding layer and the absorption region and or between the absorption region and the electron drift region .

Each layer or region in the structure can include any useful material e.g. any described herein . In one particular embodiment the integrated structure includes a p type InGaAs contact layer a step wise bandgap grade layer a p type InP cladding layer a step wise bandgap grade layer a photodiode region including an intrinsic InGaAs absorption region a step wise bandgap grade layer and a 1.0Q electron drift region a 1.0Q n type field termination layer a waveguide region including an InGaAsP intermixed MQW region disposed between two 1.3Q confinement layers and an n type InP Si cladding layer . Additional materials are described herein.

The components of the integrated structure can include any useful material. Exemplary materials include III V materials such as InP InGaAs InGaAsP InAlGaAs InGaN GaN GaAs and AlGaAs including intrinsic forms and those with n type dopants e.g. silicon sulfur selenium tellurium or germanium for III V materials or p type dopants e.g. zinc magnesium cadmium silicon or germanium for III V materials .

Any useful combinations of materials can be used to form the quantum well and barriers. Exemplary combinations of quantum well barrier materials include compressively strained InGaAsP tensile strained InGaAsP e.g. compressively strained InGaAsPwells and tensile strained InGaAsPbarriers InGaAsP InP e.g. InGaAsPwells and InP barriers InGaAs InP e.g. InGaAs wells and InP barriers InGaAs InGaAsP e.g. InGaAs wells and InGaAsPbarriers or InGaAs wells and InGaAsPbarriers InGaAs InAlGaAs e.g. InGaAs wells and InAlGaAs barriers GaAs AlGaAs e.g. GaAs wells and AlGaAs barriers where x is 0.26 0.3 or 0.4 and InGaN GaN. The wells and barriers can have any useful height e.g. of about 5 to 15 nm and any useful bandgap wavelength e.g. of from about 0.8 to 2 m .

The confinement region can include any useful cladding material such as InGaAsP Si 1.3Q Si InGaAsP Zn InP InGaAsP a 1.3Q material or a 1.4Q material including intrinsic or doped forms thereof e.g. n or p doped forms .

The photodiode region can include various components such as a capping layer e.g. including InGaAs such as p doped forms thereof a diffusion barrier e.g. including InGaAsP such as p doped forms thereof a p layer e.g. including InP an absorption region e.g. including InGaAs InGaAs Zn or InAlAs including intrinsic or doped forms thereof a spacer region e.g. including InGaAs InGaAsP or InP including intrinsic or doped forms a cliff region e.g. including InP such as n doped forms thereof an electron drift region e.g. including a 1.0Q material InP InAlAs InGaAsP or InGaAs including intrinsic or doped e.g. n doped forms thereof a sub collector region and or an n layer e.g. including InP .

Any useful material or component may be disposed between the photodiode and waveguide region e.g. a field termination layer e.g. including optionally doped 1.0Q or 1.3Q Si materials such as those including InGaAsP or InGaAlAs .

In addition a cladding layer may be present between the waveguide region and the re contact layer and or between the photodiode region and the p contact layer. The cladding layer can be formed of any useful cladding material e.g. InP e.g. n or p doped forms thereof .

One or more contact layers can include n type material e.g. InP Si or p type material e.g. InGaAs . In addition one or more p or n contact pads can be formed e.g. from a metal such as Cu Ag Al W Ti Pt Au Ge Ni or combinations thereof that is electrically connected to a p type or n type material or layer respectively. Finally one or more passivation layers may be present to electrically and or optically isolate various components where material for such layers includes an insulator e.g. SiO SiN or SiON or a dielectric e.g. a polymeric dielectric such as bis benzocyclobutene .

Between any heterointerface one or more grade layers can be present. Such grade layers can include any useful material e.g. an impedance matching material including InGaAsP InGaAs InP Si InGaAs Zn or InP as well as doped forms e.g. n doped or p doped forms thereof. Such grade layers can include the same material but each layer can include a different amount of doping thereby providing step wise graded layers. A skilled artisan would understand how to configure such grade layers to ensure a smooth change in conduction bands between heterojunctions or heterointerfaces.

During the fabrication process one or more temporary structures can be present to aid in the fabrication of the integrated structure. Exemplary temporary structures include an implant layer configured to capture implanted ion e.g. including InP GaAs SiO Si SiN or SrF based on the type of QWI process such as one that employs ions plasma e.g. Ar plasma lasers e.g. ArF or KrF lasers etc. and one or more stop etch layers to selectively etch particular layers within a stack e.g. including 1.3Q Si InP InGaAsP and or InGaAs etc.

The structures and methods of the invention can be employed for any useful purpose. Exemplary uses include any optoelectronic component or circuits including such components such as semiconductor lasers modulators detectors resonators photodiodes photonic integrated circuits optical to analog converters optical gates etc. including any described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 564 387 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Monolithic integration of optoelectronic components have been pursued for many applications due to the potential to not only reduce size weight and power of such systems but also to enable new functionality which cannot be emulated by discrete components. Quantum well intermixing QWI has been shown to be a powerful technique to enable the integration of many optoelectronic components including semiconductor lasers amplifiers attenuators photodiodes electro absorption modulators active ring resonators and various low loss waveguide components see e.g. Skogen E J et al. Optical AND and NOT gates at 40 Gbps using electro absorption modulator photodiode pairs 23. held on 7 11 Nov. 2010 in Denver Colo. pp. 52 3 and Tauke Pedretti A et al. Mutual injection locking of monolithically integrated coupled cavity DBR lasers 2011 July 23 13 908 10 .

Quantum well intermixing selectively modifies the spatial profile of the quantum well usually resulting in an increase in the quantized energy state characterized by a blue shift of the quantum well bandedge. This process allows the circuit designer to tailor the bandedge across the wafer enabling optoelectronic components with differing functionalities to reside side by side. For instance a tunable laser can be fabricated by blue shifting the as grown multiple quantum well MQW gain region such that DBR mirrors will have low optical absorption loss yet retain highly efficient carrier induced tuning see e.g. Skogen E J et al. Monolithically integrated active components A quantum well intermixing approach 2005 March April 11 2 343 55 . Further an electroabsorption modulator can also be integrated with such a laser by creating an intermediate bandedge which can be shifted into and out of the laser operating wavelength efficiently based on the quantum confined Stark effect QCSE see e.g. Skogen E J et al. 2005 March April 11 2 343 55 .

One key component in photonic integrated circuits PICs is the photodiode. Although simple photodiodes can be fabricated using the same MQW region for a laser or amplifier they tend to suffer from carrier induced field screening resulting in the loss of quantum efficiency at low biases see e.g. Raring J W et al. Design and demonstration of novel QW intermixing scheme for the integration of UTC type photodiodes with QW based components 2006 February 42 2 171 81 . High performance guided wave photodetectors commonly employ an offset absorber region usually placed above the waveguide core such as in the uni traveling carrier UTC photodiode Raring J W et al. 2006 February 42 2 171 81 . However the fabrication of such detectors is difficult adding an additional epitaxial regrowth step to place the detector epitaxial layers above the main waveguide core. Clearly a relatively simple efficient high speed high input saturation power guided wave photodiode compatible with monolithic integration has been somewhat elusive. Reported designs either suffer from front end saturation effects or require additional epitaxial regrowth steps Raring J W et al. 2006 February 42 2 171 81 .

Here we present a new photodiode design that not only enables the desired characteristics but eliminates the need for a photodiode specific epitaxial regrowth step. In our process the photodiode structure is included in the first epitaxial growth along with the required main waveguide core below. We were able to blue shift the bandedge of the QWs residing within the waveguide core by diffusing point defects through the detector photodiode structure thereby maintaining the ability to tailor the bandedge of the MQW with the detector layers already in place. This simplifies the process by eliminating the photodiode specific regrowth step.

The photodiode was designed to be monolithically integrated with a variety of devices which utilize a quantum well based active region however this is not required. Devices such as MQW laser gain regions amplifiers QCSE based modulators etc. can be integrated on the same chip with the photodiode. In addition all of the previous devices which utilize a QWI processing approach are compatible with this new photodiode design that is there is no loss of capability due to the addition of the photodiode.

The photodiode includes two main parts a bulk optical absorption region epitaxially grown above an electron drift region both of which are unintentionally doped UID . This design places the absorber offset toward the p type cladding layer which aids in the expedient extraction of holes thereby mitigating the collapse of the electric field through field screening and enabling a high input saturation power.

The band diagram of the completed structure is shown in . In the figure from the left the device consists of a 100 nm p type InGaAs contact layer a step wise bandgap grade a p type InP cladding layer not shown full thickness followed by a step wise bandgap grade a 210 nm intrinsic InGaAs bulk optical absorber another step wise grade a 110 nm 1.0Q electron drift region and finally a 1.0Q n type field termination layer. Below the photodiode structure resides a MQW based waveguide core and n type cladding. The waveguide structure under the photodiode can take the form of any reasonable guided wave architecture. In this particular case the MQW region is designed as a phase modulator but it could equally be designed as a laser gain region for example.

The photodiode structure was designed to reside in a plane above the main optical waveguide layer where the optical signals couple to the photodiode region through vertical multimode interference beating. The photodiode was designed such that the absorption of the optical signal would occur over the first half of the beat cycle upon entering the photodiode region which is essential in order to keep the photodiode physically small. Beam propagation method BPM simulations were conducted to optimize the beat length such that the optical absorption in the first half cycle was maximized.

A representative BPM simulation is shown in . As shown in the figure the optical signal enters from the left guided by the underlying waveguide core. Upon entering the photodiode region the optical signal beats into the photodiode absorbing layer. Beyond the photodiode the remaining optical signal beats back into the main waveguide core. This design also aids in the elimination of front end saturation due to the fact that the optical signal beats into the absorber layer from the underlying waveguide core and as is evident from the figure the leading edge of the photodiode witnesses very little optical power. Rather the optical power is distributed more uniformly along the length of the device than an end fired waveguide photodiode.

The device fabrication began as an epitaxial base structure grown using a commercial MOCVD reactor. The base structure is similar to that shown in with the exception that the p type InP cladding is absent and the photodiode structure is capped with a 20 nm UID stop etch layer and a 450 nm UID InP implant buffer region.

The QWI process is similar to that described in Skogen E J et al. 2005 March April 11 2 343 55 where the implant buffer layer is designed to capture completely the ion implant. During a rapid thermal anneal RTA process only mobile point defects are able to diffuse through the structure where defect complexes remain in the implant buffer region. The implant buffer region can then be selectively removed in order to keep the device free of such defects. Unique to this process is the fact that the point defects are allowed to propagate through the photodiode layers to reach the underlying MQW. We found that the quantum well intermixing process was virtually unaffected by the additional photodiode layers and blue shifted the MQW as expected.

After the QWI process the implant buffer layer was removed. The regions where photodiodes are not desired were patterned and those layers removed leaving the main waveguide core intact and selectively intermixed. A single MOCVD based regrowth process was used to blanket the wafer with both a p type InP cladding and InGaAs contact layers.

Deep etch waveguides were fabricated in both as grown and intermixed material. Optical losses were extracted using Fabry Perot resonators over a range of wavelengths from 1535 nm to 1580 nm. As grown regions showed optical losses from 3.5 cmto 5.7 cmfor wavelengths from 1580 nm to 1535 nm respectively. The intermixed material demonstrated reduced optical losses of 3 cmfor all wavelengths tested.

Photodiodes of widths from 6 m to 10 m with length of 10 m were characterized using a nominal wavelength of 1550 nm. Using a photodiode series test structure the quantum efficiency of the devices was extracted to be between 90 and 94 for the various sizes for optical input powers between 5 mW and 30 mW.

The optical input saturation power was measured at the 1 dB compression point and found to be 13.7 dBm for the 6 m 10 m 6 10 photodiode and 16.1 dBm for the 10 m 10 m 10 10 photodiode for a reverse bias of 3 V. At a reverse bias of as little as 1 V the 1 dB compression point was found to be 10.7 dBm and 12.7 dBm for the 6 10 and 10 10 devices respectively. A representative plot showing the optical to electrical power conversion is shown in .

The small signal frequency response of the photodiodes was characterized using a vector network analyzer. Port 1 of the network analyzer drove a commercial modulator to modulate a 1550 nm CW laser which was detected by a calibrated commercial photodiode. This system was normalized and the commercial photodiode replaced with the photodiode under test. The photodiodes were measured and the response of the reference detector was removed.

In conclusion a new photodiode design capable of being monolithically integrated with other optoelectronic components has been demonstrated. This is the first demonstration of a new QWI process to blue shift the bandedge of an underlying MQW layer by intermixing through the photodiode layers. Despite having point defects propagate through the photodiode structure the photodiode demonstrated outstanding performance characteristics that rival the state of the art discrete devices Li N et al. High saturation current charge compensated InGaAs InP uni traveling carrier photodiode 2004 March 16 3 864 6 . Specifically the 10 10 photodiode demonstrated over 16 dBm input saturation power at the 1 dB compression point and over 50 GHz small signal 3 dB bandwidth with a reverse bias of 4 V all with a quantum efficiency of over 90 .

All publications patents and patent applications mentioned in this specification including U.S. Provisional Application No. 62 025 656 filed Jul. 17 2014 are incorporated herein by reference to the same extent as if each independent publication or patent application was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.

While the invention has been described in connection with specific embodiments thereof it will be understood that it is capable of further modifications and this application is intended to cover any variations uses or adaptations of the invention following in general the principles of the invention and including such departures from the present disclosure that come within known or customary practice within the art to which the invention pertains and may be applied to the essential features hereinbefore set forth and follows in the scope of the claims.

