---

title: Method and device for dynamically controlling quality of a video
abstract: Embodiments of the present disclosure disclose a method and a device for dynamically controlling quality of a video displaying on a display associated to an electronic device is provided. The method comprises detecting current eye position of a user and identifying at least one region of interest (ROI) on a display screen of the display device based on the current eye position of the user. Then, the method comprises predicting next position of the eye based on at least one of the current eye position of the user or the at least one ROI. Also, the method comprises converting the SD video in to a high definition (HD) video displayed on the ROI on the display screen associated with the current and next position of the eye. Further, the method comprises displaying the HD video on the ROI of the display screen.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09554085&OS=09554085&RS=09554085
owner: Wipro Limited
number: 09554085
owner_city: Bangalore
owner_country: IN
publication_date: 20150730
---
This application claims the benefit of Indian Patent Application Serial No. 2866 CHE 2015 filed Jun. 9 2015 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present subject matter is related in general to a display device and more particularly but not exclusively to systems and methods for dynamically controlling quality of a video displaying on a display associated to an electronic device.

Presently a high definition HD video consumes a huge bandwidth for downloading and high computational power to reconstruct with 30 seconds of data at 120 Hz leads to uncompressed size of more than twenty gigabytes. To reduce the complexity with the HD video a variety of methods or techniques have been developed.

In general due to vision foveation sensitivity of human visual system is confined to a small region around a point of gaze and falls off rapidly around the same. One of the prior arts provides an apparent resolution enhancement for pre determined regions of the video. In another prior art a model spanning the optical flow of objects is provided. Another prior art provides an adoption of foviated video coding for video compression which generate fixation points automatically.

A video with higher frame rates significantly increase the quality of experience. Human eye integrates the rendered images. It calls for providing lesser weight for transient images when the eye is moving. On the same lines first few frames at new position are to be given lesser weightage.

Consider a user has a digital device such as but not limited to mobile tablet personal digital assist and any other device that can support standard definition SD as well as high definition HD . However due to bandwidth issue the device is unable to support or render HD quality video. The SD video may take about 1 2.5 Mbps for transmission while the HD video may take in the range of 12 16 Mbps which is about 10 times.

The existing devices or solutions do not render high quality video with limited bandwidth. This may be relevant for any consumer of entertainment video education medical image police patrolling marketing research advertising and social networking who often find bandwidth issues for the consumption of high quality video content

Hence there exists a need to have a device to provide high quality HD video with limited bandwidth which is certainly not sufficient to support HD.

Disclosed herein is a method and device for managing compliance of one or more network devices. The method comprises receiving one or more configuration changes of the one or more network devices. Then identifying each configuration change generating an impact value for the configuration change and generating a recommendation for the one or more network devices based on the impact value.

In an aspect of the present disclosure a method for dynamically controlling quality of a video displaying on a display associated to an electronic device is provided. The method comprises detecting current eye position of a user and identifying at least one region of interest ROI on a display screen of the display device based on the current eye position of the user. Then the method comprises predicting next position of the eye based on at least one of the current eye position of the user or the at least one ROI. Also the method comprises converting the SD video in to a high definition HD video displayed on the ROI on the display screen associated with the current and next position of the eye. Further the method comprises displaying the HD video on the ROI of the display screen.

In an embodiment of the present disclosure a display device for dynamically controlling quality of a video is provided. The display device comprises a processor and a memory communicatively coupled to the processor. The memory stores processor executable instructions which on execution cause the processor to detect current eye position of a user identify at least one region of interest ROI on a display screen of the display device based on the current eye position of the user predict next position of the eye based on at least one of the current eye position of the user or the at least one ROI convert the SD video in to a high definition HD video displayed on the ROI on the display screen associated with the current and next position of the eye and display the HD video on the ROI of the display screen.

In another aspect of the present disclosure a non transitory computer readable medium is disclosed. The non transitory computer readable medium includes instructions stored thereon that when processed by a processor causes a device to perform operations comprising detecting current eye position of a user. The operation also comprises identifying at least one region of interest ROI on a display screen of the display device based on the current eye position of the user. The operations further comprise predicting next position of the eye based on at least one of the current eye position of the user or the at least one ROI. The operations furthermore comprise converting the SD video in to a high definition HD video displayed on the ROI on the display screen associated with the current and next position of the eye and displaying the HD video on the ROI of the display screen.

The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. In addition to the illustrative aspects embodiments and features described above further aspects embodiments and features will become apparent by reference to the drawings and the following detailed description.

In the present document the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment or implementation of the present subject matter described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments.

While the disclosure is susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiment thereof has been shown by way of example in the drawings and will be described in detail below. It should be understood however that it is not intended to limit the disclosure to the particular forms disclosed but on the contrary the disclosure is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternative falling within the spirit and the scope of the disclosure.

The terms comprises comprising or any other variations thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion such that a setup device or method that comprises a list of components or steps does not include only those components or steps but may include other components or steps not expressly listed or inherent to such setup or device or method. In other words one or more elements in a device or system or apparatus proceeded by comprises . . . a does not without more constraints preclude the existence of other elements or additional elements in the device or system or apparatus.

Embodiments of the present disclosure are related to a method and a display device for dynamically controlling quality of a video displaying on a display associated to an electronic device. The device detects current eye position of a user and identifies at least one region of interest ROI on a display screen of the display device. The display device predicts next position of the eye converts the SD video in to a high definition HD video displayed on the ROI on the display screen associated with the current and next position of the eye and displaying high definition video on the ROI of the display screen.

In the following detailed description of the embodiments of the disclosure reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the disclosure may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the disclosure and it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and that changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. The following description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense.

The display device may include at least one central processing unit CPU or processor and a memory storing instructions executable by the at least one processor . The processor may comprise at least one data processor for executing program components for executing user or system generated requests. A user may include a person a person using a device such as those included in this disclosure or such a device itself. The memory is communicatively coupled to the processor . In an embodiment the memory stores one or more eye position data associated with the user. The display device further comprises an I O interface . The I O interface is coupled with the processor through which the input is received.

In an embodiment one or more data may be stored within the memory . The one or more data may include for example standard definition SD video data current eye position data region of interest ROI data next eye position data high definition HD video data and other data .

The video data is displayed on the display screen of the display device. The video data is received from a video source. In one embodiment the video source is a standard definition video source. The video data comprises plurality of SD images also referred as SD frames.

The current eye position data is associated with a user s eye movement or also referred as dwell position. The current eye position is detected using an optical eye tracking technique such a but not limited to video oculography pattern mapping and gaze based interface.

The region of interest ROI data is associated with the user focusing on the display screen using the eye movement. The ROI is obtained based on the current eye position of the user focusing on the display screen of the display device. In one embodiment a binary space partitioning technique is used to obtain the eye direction vector onto the display screen space by a user thereby obtaining the ROI.

The next eye position data is associated with the prediction of the next eye position of the user focusing on the display screen. The next eye position of the user is also referred as next dwelling position.

The high definition HD video data is data associated with converted images with improved quality on the ROI. The SD video is converted in to the HD video and displayed on the display screen of the display device.

In an embodiment the data in the memory is processed by the modules of the processor . The modules may be stored within the memory . Also the modules can be implemented in any suitable hardware software firmware or combination thereof.

In one implementation the modules may include for example a motion detection module a prediction module a conversion module and a display module . The display device may also comprise other modules to perform various miscellaneous functionalities of the device . It will be appreciated that such aforementioned modules may be represented as a single module or a combination of different modules.

In an embodiment the motion detection module also referred as motion detector the motion detection module of the display device detects the eye movement of the user. In an example embodiment when a user is watching a video or image displayed on a display screen of the display device the motion detector detects the eye movement. The detected eye movement is recorded as current eye position which is also referred as the current dwell position of the eye.

The motion detection module detects the current eye position using an optical eye tracking technique such a but not limited to video oculography pattern mapping and gaze based interface. In one embodiment of detecting current eye position using video oculography an infrared light is reflected from the eye and sensed by at least one of a video camera and an optical sensor. The information or data is analyzed to extract eye rotation from changes in reflections of the infrared light. This information is the current eye position data.

In one embodiment by using pattern mapping the eye movement is recorded by ways of video or photographing continuously. The variation in size and shape of sclera i.e. white region of eye and iris the black region of eye are fed to a pattern mapping algorithm to obtain the eye rotation and look direction vector in 3 dimension 3D . In one embodiment the current eye position is identified using a gaze based interface for analyzing human eye gaze behaviors to reveal characteristics of human communication and cognition.

The ROI is obtained based on the current eye position of the user focusing on the display screen of the display device. The other region of the display screen is non ROI. In one embodiment a binary space partitioning technique is used by the motion detection module to obtain the eye direction vector onto the display screen space by a user thereby obtaining the ROI.

The motion prediction module predicts next eye position of the user focusing on the display screen. The next eye position of the user is also referred as next dwelling position. The motion prediction module predict next position of the eye also referred as next dwell position of the eye based on at least one of the current eye position of the user and the ROI. The next dwell position of the eye may be predicted using an artificial neural network based on at least one of inputs such as but not limited to present coordinates on the display screen the degree of motion or motion vectors in the neighboring pixels or objects scene change or change in frame and change in color.

In one embodiment the motion prediction module predicts the next eye position based on user profile data. The motion prediction module is configured with plurality of users profile data. Based on a specific user the display device tracks the eye movement for a predetermined time with respect to the objects or scene displayed on the display screen. For example a user eyes dwell in a war scene which includes killing and crying of people. The motion prediction module uses the relative motion of eye with respect to moving objects displayed which plays a significant role on the quality of the video. The eye movement and rate of eye movement of different user s is different based on the moving objects on the displayed screen. The motion prediction module is configured to learn the rate of movement of eye for each user during transients based on the detected eye movement by the motion detection module to predict the next eye position and temporal resolution i.e. number of HD frames required during transition. During the transition the next eye position the number of HD frames required at ROI are combined and rendered with higher frame rates.

In one embodiment as a human eye may not focus to a point on the display but to a small region hence the motion prediction module is configured with a threshold to overcome the aberration of human eye. The motion prediction module performs a consistent shift at least pixels in plurality of frames may be four or five frames before shifting moving the eye focus to next point. The motion prediction module uses motion vectors of ROI to compute the eye focus position or gaze position.

Also the motion prediction module predicts which part of an image or referred as frame of a video is to be coded with high definition HD in the next frame uses at least one available resources such as but not limited to bandwidth and processing power. In one example embodiment at the network level in a live video chat scenario the video packets that fall with in the ROI may be assigned with high priority relative to other packets in other parts of the scene.

The conversion module converts each image of the SD video into a high definition video i.e. image of high definition HD at the ROI on the display screen. The sub modules of the conversion module are illustrated in . The sub modules of the conversion module comprise a decoder module an enhancement module and a processing module .

The decoder module comprises a standard definition decoder providing for a reduced resolution. In one embodiment the decoder module supports frame rates of at least one of 24 frames per second fps and 30 fps. In one embodiment decoder module is configured with one of sobel filtering and frangi filter for extracting the objects or frames of the SD video. After the extraction of the frames corresponding to the SD video the conversion of SD in to HD video is performed. The conversion of SD video in to HD comprises up sampling of images with multiple reference frames referred as super resolution.

The conversion from SD to HD comprises interpolation of pixels by performing spatial up sampling estimating motion vectors of ROI for estimating next prediction position. Based on the next predicted position weightage is assigned for the image in that direction and frames are temporally interpolated to virtually enhance the frame rate. The ROI as well as the ROI in the next image or frame are rendered with higher frame rates with temporal interpolation to facilitate smoother transition so that only ROI will be rendered with high frame rates in the backdrop of SD video. The non ROI may be rendered with low frame rates compared to the frame rates of ROI. Thus the decoder module provides each image having HD at the ROI converting the SD video into HD video.

The enhancement module receives plurality of images associated with the converted HD video from the conversion module . The enhancement module enhances image quality of each of the plurality of images in the converted HD video by performing filtering operation to remove noise from the plurality of image. The filtering process is performed by at least one of the filters such as but not limited to Weiner filter and Gaussian filter.

The processing module receives the enhanced plurality of images associated with the converted HD video. The processing module performs post processing on the enhanced images for rendering high resolution content at the ROI. The non ROI region shall be having low resolution or quality compared to the ROI. Thus the content of user attention is rendered with high quality low quantization step . The rest of the display screen may have lower resolution and the overall bit rate required to improve the quality of video being displayed is low.

Referring bask to the display device comprises a display module to display the high resolution video content at the ROI which the user attention is rendered. This is shown in illustrates an example for dynamically controlling quality of a video displaying on a display device. As shown in an image is an SD frame or image an image is a HD image or frame and an image or frame is displayed on the display screen of the display device which comprises HD content at the ROI where the user focuses on the display screen.

As illustrated in the method comprises one or more blocks for displaying a video by dynamically controlling quality of a video displaying on a display associated to an electronic device. The method may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions. Generally computer executable instructions can include routines programs objects components data structures procedures modules and functions which perform particular functions or implement particular abstract data types.

The order in which the method is described is not intended to be construed as a limitation and any number of the described method blocks can be combined in any order to implement the method. Additionally individual blocks may be deleted from the methods without departing from the spirit and scope of the subject matter described herein. Furthermore the method can be implemented in any suitable hardware software firmware or combination thereof.

At block detect current eye position of a user. In an embodiment the motion detection module of the display device detects the eye movement of the user. For example when a user is watching a video or image on a display screen or monitor of the display device the motion detector detects the eye movement which is recorded as current eye position or also referred as the current dwell position of the eye.

At block identify at least one region of intersection ROI on the display screen of the display device. In one embodiment the ROI on the display is identified based on the eye movement of the user using a binary space partitioning technique.

At block predict next position of the eye also referred as next dwell position of the eye based on at least one of the current eye position of the user or the at least one ROI. The next dwell position of the eye may be predicted using an artificial neural network based on at least one of inputs such as but not limited to present coordinates on the display screen the degree of motion or motion vectors in the neighboring pixels or objects scene change or change in frame and change in color. In one embodiment the prediction of the next position of eye is based on personal profile of the user. Depending upon the user the display device system observes the eye movement for a predetermined time with respect to the objects or scene displayed on the display screen. For example a user eyes dwell in a war scene which includes killing and crying of people. This involves the relative motion of eye with respect to moving objects displayed which plays a significant role on the quality of the video. As different users eye movement is different and rate of eye movement is also different based on the moving objects on the displayed screen. The display device is configured to learn rate of movement of eye for each user during transients and considers the same during the prediction step at block .

At block convert the standard definition SD video in to a high definition HD video displayed on the ROI on the display screen associated with the current and next position of the eye. In one embodiment decoder module is configured with one of sobel filtering and frangi filter for extracting the objects or frames of the SD video. After the extraction of the frames corresponding to the SD video the conversion of SD in to HD video is performed. The conversion of SD video in to HD essentially involves up sampling of images with multiple reference frames referred as super resolution. The conversion comprises interpolation of pixels by performing spatial up sampling estimating motion vectors of ROI for estimating next prediction position. Based on the next predicted position weightage is assigned for the image in that direction and frames are temporally interpolated to virtually enhance the frame rate. The ROI of interest as well as the ROI in the next image or frame are rendered with higher frame rates with temporal interpolation to facilitate smoother transition so that only ROI will be rendered with high frame rates in the backdrop of SD video.

Next the image quality of the ROI is enhanced by filtering process for removal of noise. The filtering process is performed by at least one of the filters such as but not limited to Weiner filter and Gaussian filter. Thereafter performing post processing is performed on the enhanced image for rendering high resolution content at the determined ROI. The non ROI region shall be having low resolution or quality compared to the ROI.

At block display the images associated with the video are displayed on the display screen wherein the image quality on the ROI is high which is HD and non ROI shall be having SD quality.

Thus the method and the device provide dynamically controlling quality of a video displaying on a display associated to an electronic device.

The processor may be disposed in communication with one or more input output I O devices and via I O interface . The I O interface may employ communication protocols methods such as without limitation audio analog digital monoaural RCA stereo IEEE 1394 serial bus universal serial bus USB infrared PS 2 BNC coaxial component composite digital visual interface DVI high definition multimedia interface HDMI RF antennas S Video VGA IEEE 802.n b g n x Bluetooth cellular e.g. code division multiple access CDMA high speed packet access HSPA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE WiMax or the like etc.

Using the I O interface the computer system may communicate with one or more I O devices and . For example the input device may be an antenna keyboard mouse joystick infrared remote control camera card reader fax machine dongle biometric reader microphone touch screen touchpad trackball stylus scanner storage device transceiver video device source etc. The output device may be a printer fax machine video display e.g. cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display LCD light emitting diode LED plasma Plasma display panel PDP Organic light emitting diode display OLED or the like audio speaker etc.

In some embodiments the processor may be disposed in communication with a communication network via a network interface . The network interface may communicate with the communication network . The network interface may employ connection protocols including without limitation direct connect Ethernet e.g. twisted pair 10 100 1000 Base T transmission control protocol internet protocol TCP IP token ring IEEE 802.11a b g n x etc. The communication network may include without limitation a direct interconnection local area network LAN wide area network WAN wireless network e.g. using Wireless Application Protocol the Internet etc. Using the network interface and the communication network the computer system may communicate with one or more network devices .

In some embodiments the processor may be disposed in communication with a memory e.g. RAM ROM etc. not shown in via a storage interface . The storage interface may connect to memory including without limitation memory drives removable disc drives etc. employing connection protocols such as serial advanced technology attachment SATA Integrated Drive Electronics IDE IEEE 1394 Universal Serial Bus USB fiber channel Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI etc. The memory drives may further include a drum magnetic disc drive magneto optical drive optical drive Redundant Array of Independent Discs RAID solid state memory devices solid state drives etc.

The memory may store a collection of program or database components including without limitation user interface application an operating system web server etc. In some embodiments computer system may store user application data such as the data variables records etc. as described in this disclosure. Such databases may be implemented as fault tolerant relational scalable secure databases such as Oracle or Sybase.

The operating system may facilitate resource management and operation of the computer system . Examples of operating systems include without limitation Apple Macintosh OS X Unix Unix like system distributions e.g. Berkeley Software Distribution BSD FreeBSD NetBSD OpenBSD etc. Linux distributions e.g. Red Hat Ubuntu Kubuntu etc. IBM OS 2 Microsoft Windows XP Vista 7 8 etc. Apple iOS Google Android Blackberry OS or the like. User interface may facilitate display execution interaction manipulation or operation of program components through textual or graphical facilities. For example user interfaces may provide computer interaction interface elements on a display system operatively connected to the computer system such as cursors icons check boxes menus scrollers windows widgets etc. Graphical user interfaces GUIs may be employed including without limitation Apple Macintosh operating systems Aqua IBM OS 2 Microsoft Windows e.g. Aero Metro etc. Unix X Windows web interface libraries e.g. ActiveX Java Javascript AJAX HTML Adobe Flash etc. or the like.

In some embodiments the computer system may implement a web browser stored program component. The web browser may be a hypertext viewing application such as Microsoft Internet Explorer Google Chrome Mozilla Firefox Apple Safari etc. Secure web browsing may be provided using HTTPS secure hypertext transport protocol secure sockets layer SSL Transport Layer Security TLS etc. Web browsers may utilize facilities such as AJAX DHTML Adobe Flash JavaScript Java application programming interfaces APIs etc. In some embodiments the computer system may implement a mail server stored program component. The mail server may be an Internet mail server such as Microsoft Exchange or the like. The mail server may utilize facilities such as ASP ActiveX ANSI C C Microsoft .NET CGI scripts Java JavaScript PERL PHP Python WebObjects etc. The mail server may utilize communication protocols such as Internet Message Access Protocol IMAP Messaging Application Programming Interface MAPI Microsoft Exchange Post Office Protocol POP Simple Mail Transfer Protocol SMTP or the like. In some embodiments the computer system may implement a mail client stored program component. The mail client may be a mail viewing application such as Apple Mail Microsoft Entourage Microsoft Outlook Mozilla Thunderbird etc.

Furthermore one or more computer readable storage media may be utilized in implementing embodiments consistent with the present disclosure. A computer readable storage medium refers to any type of physical memory on which information or data readable by a processor may be stored. Thus a computer readable storage medium may store instructions for execution by one or more processors including instructions for causing the processor s to perform steps or stages consistent with the embodiments described herein. The term computer readable medium should be understood to include tangible items and exclude carrier waves and transient signals i.e. be non transitory. Examples include Random Access Memory RAM Read Only Memory ROM volatile memory nonvolatile memory hard drives CD ROMs DVDs flash drives disks and any other known physical storage media.

In an embodiment the present disclosure provides a robust and adaptive high quality video content at rendering.

In an embodiment the present disclosure provides enhanced user satisfaction of consumption of high quality video.

In an embodiment the present disclosure always provides high quality video ensured on the object being watched by the user.

In an embodiment the present disclosure provides a new video format based on the ROI high definition HD video in ROI and standard definition SD video in the rest of the region non ROI a frame by frame basis which may be subjected to a compression algorithm such as but not limited to MPEG.

The described operations may be implemented as a method system or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof. The described operations may be implemented as code maintained in a non transitory computer readable medium where a processor may read and execute the code from the computer readable medium. The processor is at least one of a microprocessor and a processor capable of processing and executing the queries. A non transitory computer readable medium may comprise media such as magnetic storage medium e.g. hard disk drives floppy disks tape etc. optical storage CD ROMs DVDs optical disks etc. volatile and non volatile memory devices e.g. EEPROMs ROMs PROMs RAMs DRAMs SRAMs Flash Memory firmware programmable logic etc. etc. Further non transitory computer readable media comprise all computer readable media except for a transitory. The code implementing the described operations may further be implemented in hardware logic e.g. an integrated circuit chip Programmable Gate Array PGA Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC etc. .

Still further the code implementing the described operations may be implemented in transmission signals where transmission signals may propagate through space or through a transmission media such as an optical fiber copper wire etc. The transmission signals in which the code or logic is encoded may further comprise a wireless signal satellite transmission radio waves infrared signals Bluetooth etc. The transmission signals in which the code or logic is encoded is capable of being transmitted by a transmitting station and received by a receiving station where the code or logic encoded in the transmission signal may be decoded and stored in hardware or a non transitory computer readable medium at the receiving and transmitting stations or devices. An article of manufacture comprises non transitory computer readable medium hardware logic and or transmission signals in which code may be implemented. A device in which the code implementing the described embodiments of operations is encoded may comprise a computer readable medium or hardware logic. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize that many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope of the invention and that the article of manufacture may comprise suitable information bearing medium known in the art.

The terms an embodiment embodiment embodiments the embodiment the embodiments one or more embodiments some embodiments and one embodiment mean one or more but not all embodiments of the invention s unless expressly specified otherwise.

The terms including comprising having and variations thereof mean including but not limited to unless expressly specified otherwise.

The enumerated listing of items does not imply that any or all of the items are mutually exclusive unless expressly specified otherwise.

A description of an embodiment with several components in communication with each other does not imply that all such components are required. On the contrary a variety of optional components are described to illustrate the wide variety of possible embodiments of the invention.

When a single device or article is described herein it will be readily apparent that more than one device article whether or not they cooperate may be used in place of a single device article. Similarly where more than one device or article is described herein whether or not they cooperate it will be readily apparent that a single device article may be used in place of the more than one device or article or a different number of devices articles may be used instead of the shown number of devices or programs. The functionality and or the features of a device may be alternatively embodied by one or more other devices which are not explicitly described as having such functionality features. Thus other embodiments of the invention need not include the device itself.

The illustrated operations of show certain events occurring in a certain order. In alternative embodiments certain operations may be performed in a different order modified or removed. Moreover steps may be added to the above described logic and still conform to the described embodiments. Further operations described herein may occur sequentially or certain operations may be processed in parallel. Yet further operations may be performed by a single processing unit or by distributed processing units.

Finally the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based here on. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments of the invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the following claims.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

