---

title: Low latency fiber optic local area network
abstract: The present invention is directed to a low latency fiber optic local area network with a network and a plurality of nodes connected through optical fibers. Each node has a plurality of bi-directional input/output interfaces. Each bi-directional input/output interface has a demultiplexer, at least one optical power coupler, a plurality of wavelength converters, and a plurality of internal optical waveguides. The internal optical waveguides extend from each wavelength converter and are for communication with the demultiplexer, the input fiber optic interface, and the optical fiber. Each optical power coupler has a fiber optic output interface for communication with other nodes, and each demultiplexer has a input fiber optic interface for communication with other nodes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09660757&OS=09660757&RS=09660757
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09660757
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150609
---
The present application claims the benefit of Provisional Application No. 62 013 314 filed Jun. 17 2014. The provisional application is incorporated herein by reference.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

Local area networks LANs are typically used to route data signals in and between end systems. An avionics LAN is used to interconnect multiple aircraft systems e.g. Vehicle Management Stores Management Navigation Communications Mission Processing Electronic Warfare and lower level sub system components that make up systems e.g. computers antennas cockpit electronics data storage devices within an aircraft . Wavelength Division Multiplexing WDM is the use of multiple carrier signals utilizing different wavelengths of light to carry multiple data streams simultaneously though an optical fiber or waveguide. The connectivity and data throughput of a WDM LAN increases with the use of additional carrier wavelengths. Besides this expansion in signal capacity a LAN based on WDM technology also offers the benefits inherent in any fiber optic system e.g. high bandwidth low loss light weight small size immunity to electromagnetic interference and electromagnetic tapping .

Current methods for routing data signals are based on a bus protocol such as MIL STD 1553 incorporated by reference and not admitted to be prior art and networking protocols such as FibreChannel and Ethernet. These methods work fine in federated avionics architectures whereby systems are physically separated from one another via sub networks that are not connected to one another. Federated architecture drawbacks include lack of network re configurability lack of protocol independence limited redundancy significant space weight and power penalties and limited ability to upgrade add or change aircraft node clients.

The present invention is directed to a low latency fiber optic local area network with a plurality of nodes connected through optical fibers. Each node has a plurality of bi directional input output interfaces. Each bi directional input output interface has a demultiplexer at least one optical power coupler a plurality of wavelength converters and a plurality of internal optical waveguides. The internal optical waveguides extend from each wavelength converter and are for communication with the demultiplexer input fiber optic interface and the optical fiber. Each optical power coupler has a fiber optic output interface for communication with other nodes and each demultiplexer has an input fiber optic interface for communication with other nodes.

It is a feature of the present invention to provide a low latency fiber optic local area network that includes nodes that route data signals between multiple end systems and within subsystems.

It is a feature of the present invention to provide a low latency fiber optic local area network that uses wavelength conversion to route signals between its input output ports.

It is a feature of the present invention to provide a low latency fiber optic local area network that is compatible with existing star switch and bus architectures and future mesh architecture designs.

The preferred embodiments of the present invention are illustrated by way of example below and in . As shown in the low latency fiber optic local area network includes a network and a plurality of nodes connected through optical fibers . As shown in each node has a plurality of bi directional input output interfaces . As shown in each bi directional input output interface has a demultiplexer at least one optical power coupler a plurality of wavelength converters and a plurality of internal optical waveguides . The internal optical waveguides extending from each wavelength converter are for receiving signals from other bi directional input output interfaces within the node . The internal optical waveguides extending from the demultiplexer are for communicating with the wavelength converters and other bi directional input output interfaces . Each optical power coupler has a fiber optic output interface for communication with other nodes particularly with other demultiplexers within other nodes . Each demultiplexer has an input fiber optic interface for communication with other nodes particularly other optical power couplers within other nodes and internal optical waveguides for transmitting signals to other input output interfaces within the node . As shown in the fiber optic output interfaces and the input fiber optic interfaces may be disposed within the optical fiber cables .

In the description of the present invention the invention will be discussed in a military aircraft environment however this invention can be utilized for any type of application that requires use of a local area network.

The network can be mesh network a bus network a star network a ring network or a partially connected mesh . A mesh network typically uses a network topology in which each node called a mesh node relays data for the network. In a mesh network all nodes cooperate in the distribution of data in the network. A bus network is a network topology in which nodes are connected in a daisy chain by a linear sequence of buses. In its simplest form as shown in a star network has one central switch hub or computer which acts as a conduit to transmit messages. It has a central node to which all other nodes are connected this central node provides a common connection point for all nodes through a hub. In star topology every node computer workstation or any other peripheral is connected to a central node called a hub or switch. A ring network shown in is a network topology in which each node connects to exactly two other nodes forming a single continuous pathway for signals through each node a ring. Data travels from node to node with each node along the way handling every signal. The preferred network shown in is a partially connected mesh to maximize throughput and fault tolerance is a partially connected mesh network tailored to its intended environment. As shown in the network is a partially connected mesh network designed to interconnect eight subsystems utilizing four port nodes. This configuration may be referred to as a Wagner graph. It minimizes path length while maintaining high redundancy in case of component failure.

The low latency fiber optic local area network may also include a plurality of subsystems. Each subsystem communicates with each other and each subsystem communicates with the network. Each subsystem has architecture selected from the group consisting of mesh architecture bus architecture ring architecture star architecture and Wagner graph architecture.

The demultiplexer can be thin film based or arrayed wavelength grating based. More advanced demultiplexers can be tunable whereby the demultiplexed wavelength statically or dynamically is tuned to a specific wavelength band. The optical power coupler can be fiber based or planar lightwave circuit based. The wavelength converters can have a fixed output wavelength or a tunable output wavelength. The internal optical waveguides can be fiber optic based or planar lightwave circuit based. The optic output interfaces and the input fiber optic interfaces can be pigtailed or connectorized. However any types of components practicable can be utilized.

When introducing elements of the present invention or the preferred embodiment s thereof the articles a an the and said are intended to mean there are one or more of the elements. The terms comprising including and having are intended to be inclusive and mean that there may be additional elements other than the listed elements.

Although the present invention has been described in considerable detail with reference to certain preferred embodiments thereof other embodiments are possible. Therefore the spirit and scope of the appended claims should not be limited to the description of the preferred embodiment s contained herein.

