---

title: Systems and methods for rule-based thin-line enhancement in halftone images
abstract: Embodiments of a computer-implemented method for thin-line enhancement in electronic images are disclosed. The methods include receiving a halftone image comprising multiple pixels, and associating a predefined kernel with at least a portion of the halftone image. The kernel includes multiple check cells and a processing cell, each capable of being toggled between an active state and an inactive state; detecting a state of each of the pixels in the neighborhood of an inactive pixel associated with the processing cell based on one or more predetermined rules being applied to the kernel, wherein the inactive pixel is in communication with a contiguous set of active pixels; and selectively activating the inactive pixel by activating the processing cell based on the predetermined rules, provided the inactive pixel upon being activated is separated from a neighboring active pixel.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09338324&OS=09338324&RS=09338324
owner: XEROX CORPORATION
number: 09338324
owner_city: Norwalk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150511
---
The presently disclosed embodiments relate to raster image processing and more particularly to systems and methods for rule based thin line enhancement.

Digital images are made up of pixels having multiple components such as color and intensity that are uniquely defined for different image types. For example binary digital images have bi level values i.e. two possible values for each pixel namely black represented by the number 1 or white represented by the number 0 . On the other hand grayscale or continuous tone digital images have multiple bits per pixel such as 8 bit value per pixel comprising 256 tones or shades of gray for each pixel in the image gray levels of 0 to 255 . Such bi level pixels or multiple bit pixels are represented by color planes in color images where the pixels of different component colors are combined on a print medium for example a paper to form a dot. The dot color represents a combination of tone values in different color planes.

Various conditions and or scenarios may be relevant to the printing of lines or curves that may be only one or two pixels in width. Often printers plotters or other printing devices that transfer data or images onto a print medium are required to print curved or straight thin lines that may only be partially visible on a print medium at certain resolutions depending on the printing device due to operational dot gain and dot loss of the printing device. Existing methods for thin line enhancement include template matching to detect thin lines that are dependent on halftone growth halftone frequency and printer resolution. Such dependencies increase the computation load on the printer processor which lowers efficiency resulting in longer print times and may not consistently enhance thin lines at the pixel level of resolution. Other thin line enhancement methods such as those based on tone response curve TRC of each pixel are prone to introduce artifacts across the entire print medium during a print operation. In other words prior methods of thin line enhancement are susceptible to unwanted merging of two or more thin lines with each another or an adjacent line in close proximity during thin line width enhancement.

Thus it would be advantageous to provide a computationally efficient and thin line enhancement method that avoids merging of thin lines with neighboring pixels in an image.

Embodiments of the present disclosure include systems and methods for enhancing thin line processing on a printing device or any other computing device enhanced thin line printing onto a print medium. The present systems and methods are advantageously configured to operate independent of halftone growth halftone frequency and print device resolution.

One exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure includes a computer implemented method for thin line enhancement in electronic images. The method comprises receiving using a rule based thin line enhancement unit a halftone image comprising a plurality of pixels associating using the rule based thin line enhancement unit a predefined kernel with at least a portion of the halftone image wherein the kernel includes a plurality of check cells and at least one processing cell each capable of being toggled between an active state and an inactive state detecting using the rule based thin line enhancement unit a state of each of the plurality of pixels in the neighborhood of at least one inactive pixel associated with the at least one processing cell based on one or more predetermined rules being applied to the kernel wherein the at least one inactive pixel is in communication with a contiguous set of active pixels and selectively activating using the rule based thin line enhancement unit the at least one inactive pixel by activating the processing cell based on the one or more predetermined rules being true provided the at least one inactive pixel upon being activated is separated from a neighboring active pixel.

Another exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure includes a system for thin line enhancement of electronic images. The system includes an imaging unit a halftone generator a memory unit and a rule based thin line enhancement unit. The imaging unit may be configured to capture an electronic image of a predetermined resolution. The halftone generator may be configured to convert the captured electronic image into a halftone image comprising a plurality of pixels. The memory unit may be configured to store a predefined kernel including a plurality of check cells and at least one processing cell each capable of being toggled between an active state and an inactive state. The rule based thin line enhancement unit may be configured to receive the halftone image from the halftone generator and the kernel from the memory unit associate the kernel with at least a portion of the halftone image detect a state of each of the plurality of pixels in the neighborhood of at least one inactive pixel associated with the at least one processing cell based on one or more predetermined rules being applied to the kernel wherein the at least one inactive pixel is in communication with a contiguous set of active pixels and selectively activate the at least one inactive pixel by activating the processing cell based on the one or more predetermined rules being true provided the at least one inactive pixel upon being activated is separated from a neighboring active pixel.

Yet another exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure includes a non transitory computer readable medium comprising computer executable instructions for computing trust index among a plurality of entities associated with a resource marketplace. The non transitory computer readable medium comprises instructions for receiving a halftone image comprising a plurality of pixels associating a predefined kernel with at least a portion of the halftone image wherein the kernel includes a plurality of check cells and at least one processing cell each capable of being toggled between an active state and an inactive state detecting a state of each of the plurality of pixels in the neighborhood of at least one inactive pixel associated with the at least one processing cell based on one or more predetermined rules being applied to the kernel wherein the at least one inactive pixel is in communication with a contiguous set of active pixels and selectively activating the at least one inactive pixel by activating the processing cell based on the one or more predetermined rules being true provided the at least one inactive pixel upon being activated is separated from a neighboring active pixel.

Other and further aspects and features of the disclosure will be evident from reading the following detailed description of the embodiments which are intended to illustrate not limit the present disclosure.

The following detailed description is made with reference to the figures. Some of the embodiments are described to illustrate the disclosure not to limit its scope which is defined by the claims. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize a number of equivalent variations in the description that follows.

Various embodiments describe systems and methods for rule based thin line enhancement in digital images such as a halftone image printable on a print medium. The embodiments include a rule based thin line enhancement unit that enhances the thickness or width of thin lines in color planes to relatively improve the thin line s visibility. The systems and methods use predetermined rules to detect pixel patterns in close proximity of a thin curve such as a thin line whose thickness may be increased by activating an inactive pixel in communication with the thin line in the detected pixel patterns. The embodiments can dynamically enhance the thickness or width of a thin line by one or more levels processing based on a predetermined spacing between the inactive pixel and an active pixel in the pixel patterns. Some advantages to the embodiments include method and systems for enhancement of thin lines that are independent of halftone growth halftone frequency and print device resolution. The methods and systems are made suitable for various applications including but not limited to fine line graphic prints computer aided design prints architecture and design layout applications laserjet prints inkjet prints bubble jet prints 3 D prints etc. Further the embodiments are computationally light and can reproduce enhanced thin lines in an electronic image such as a halftone image at certain resolutions for example 600 dots per inch DPI or above without merging each thin line with neighboring active pixels.

As used herein electronic image means any electronic media content that is intended to be used in an electronic form or transmitted to a marking engine to be printed. Exemplary electronic image file types may include various digital images text and mixed content files such as PDF TXT DOC TIFF BMP GIF JPEG and other common page description language PDL file and document formats such as Adobe Postscript . Pixels in the electronic image may be formatted in some instances as binary image data. Binary image data is single bit or bi level with only two possible values. More particularly pixel values may be either ON e.g. value 1 denoting an active pixel or OFF e.g. value 0 denoting a background pixel. In some embodiments the background pixel may be a white pixel or vice versa.

In addition as used in the embodiments a thin line can include any curved or straight contiguous or non contiguous group of pixels printed on a print medium that could be enhanced by the embodiments. For purposes of illustration in some embodiments a thin line can be a generally contiguous procession of pixels which may be active or inactive in a halftone image having a width of about two pixels or less depending on the image resolution. For example at 1200 dpi a one pixel wide line may be considered a thin line and at 2400 dpi a two pixel wide line may be considered a thin line. However the method may be applied to lines having a width of more than two pixels. Such thin lines may be of any shape e.g. linear curved or free flowing etc. or orientation e.g. horizontal vertical slanted or angled etc. with respect to 1 the image background or 2 orientation of print media. There is no specific limit on the length of lines that can be relevant to the embodiments such as the thin lines described above.

The network may include for example one or more of the Internet Wide Area Networks WANs Local Area Networks LANs analog or digital wired and wireless telephone networks e.g. a PSTN Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN a cellular network and Digital Subscriber Line xDSL radio television cable satellite and or any other delivery or tunneling mechanism for carrying data. Network may include multiple networks or sub networks each of which may include for example a wired or wireless data pathway. The network may include a circuit switched voice network a packet switched data network or any other network able to carry electronic communications. For example the network may include networks based on the Internet protocol IP or asynchronous transfer mode ATM and may support voice using for example VoIP Voice over ATM or other comparable protocols used for voice video and data communications.

The memory unit may comprise any computer readable medium known in the art related art or developed later including for example a single processor or multiple processors operatively connected together volatile memory e.g. RAM non volatile memory e.g. flash etc. disk drive etc. or any combination thereof. The memory unit may receive and store the electronic image s captured by the imaging unit . In some embodiments the memory unit may receive an electronic image directly or indirectly from a storage media e.g. a compact disk a flash drive a memory card etc. a computing device e.g. a mobile phone a server etc. through various interfaces e.g. Universal Serial Bus USB port Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI port etc. and so on over the network. In one embodiment the memory unit may store a predefined kernel for being used by the enhancement unit to manipulate pixels of the halftone image for thin line enhancement discussed later in greater detail. The memory unit may also store values of the halftone image pixels in one or more variables associated with the kernel.

Halftone generator may receive or fetch the electronic image and its associated image data from the memory unit . The halftone generator generates halftone cells for the electronic image based on the image data and bitmap codes using a variety of halftone screens. The halftone generator may apply a separate halftone screen for each color channel in a color model such as CMYK Cyan Magenta Yellow Key or Black and RGB Red Green Blue implemented on the electronic image. Each of the halftone screens operate at different screen angles and screen frequencies for each color channel to avoid the Moir effect from appearing in the halftone image. In some embodiments a thin line may appear in the halftone image when any pair of applied halftone screens is oriented at for example 90 degrees or 45 degrees from each other.

The halftone generator represents these halftone cells as patterns of dots or ink drops to convert for example a continuous tone bitmap image into a halftone image that has a pattern of dots for application to a tangible print medium e.g. a paper . The dot sizes and the spacing between dots may vary in the halftone image based on the bitmap codes which may be generated by a bitmap generator not shown based upon a desired dot pattern to be embedded within the halftone image. The desired dot pattern may be inputted to the bitmap generator by a user using any of the known input devices for example a keyboard not shown . The halftone generator may store the generated halftone image in the memory unit or transmit the halftone image to the enhancement unit . The generated halftone image may comprise a number of active pixels e.g. having a value 1 and inactive pixels e.g. having a value 0 .

The enhancement unit may be configured to receive the halftone image from the memory unit or the halftone generator . The enhancement unit may represent any type of computing device such as the computing device described above that is capable of configuring and processing the methods of the embodiments. The enhancement unit may be implemented as a standalone and dedicated device including hardware and installed software where the hardware is compatible with the requirements and or functionality of the software. Alternatively the enhancement unit may be implemented as a software application or a device driver. In some other embodiments the enhancement unit may be configured to expose its computing environment or operating code to a user and may include related art I O devices such as a keyboard or display. The enhancement unit of some embodiments may however include software firmware or other resources that support remote administration and or maintenance of the enhancement unit .

In further embodiments the enhancement unit either in communication with networked devices such as the memory unit and the output unit or independently may have video voice and data communication capabilities e.g. unified communication capabilities by being coupled to or including various imaging devices e.g. cameras printers scanners medical imaging systems etc. various audio devices e.g. microphones music players recorders audio input devices speakers audio output devices telephones speaker telephones etc. various video devices e.g. monitors projectors displays televisions video output devices video input devices camcorders etc. or any other type of hardware in any combination thereof. In some embodiments the enhancement unit may comprise or implement one or more real time protocols e.g. session initiation protocol SIP H.261 H.263 H.264 H.323 etc. and non real time protocols known in the art related art or developed later to facilitate data transfer among the imaging unit the memory unit the halftone generator the enhancement unit the output unit and any other network device.

In some embodiments the enhancement unit may be configured to convert communications which may include instructions queries data etc. from for example the imaging unit the memory unit and the halftone generator into appropriate formats to make these communications compatible with the output unit and vice versa. Consequently the enhancement unit may allow implementation of the output unit using different technologies or by different organizations e.g. a third party vendor managing the output unit or associated services using a proprietary technology.

The enhancement unit may be implemented by way of a single device e.g. a computing device a processor or an electronic storage device or a combination of multiple devices that are operatively connected or networked together in a single location or that are separated by large distances. In some embodiments the enhancement unit may be a hardware device including processor s executing machine readable program instructions for analyzing data and interactions between the halftone generator or the memory unit and the output unit . The hardware may comprise a combination of discrete components an integrated circuit an application specific integrated circuit a field programmable gate array a digital signal processor or other suitable hardware. The software may comprise one or more objects agents threads lines of code subroutines separate software applications two or more lines of code or other suitable software structures operating in one or more software applications or on one or more processors. The processor s may include for example microprocessors microcomputers microcontrollers digital signal processors central processing units state machines logic circuits and or any devices that manipulate signals based on operational instructions. Among other capabilities the processor s may be configured to fetch and execute computer readable instructions in a dedicated or shared memory associated with the enhancement unit for performing tasks such as signal coding data processing input output processing power control and or other functions.

In some embodiments the enhancement unit may include in whole or in part a software application working alone or in conjunction with one or more hardware resources. Such software applications may be executed by the processor s on different hardware platforms or emulated in a virtual environment. Aspects of the enhancement unit may leverage known related art or later developed off the shelf software. Other embodiments may comprise the enhancement unit being integrated or in communication with a mobile switching center network gateway system Internet access node application server IMS core service node or some other communication systems including any combination thereof. In some embodiments the enhancement unit may be integrated with or implemented as a wearable device including but not limited to a fashion accessory e.g. a wrist band a ring etc. a utility device a hand held baton a pen an umbrella a watch etc. a body clothing or any combination thereof.

The enhancement unit may be preconfigured or dynamically configured to automatically or upon user request enhance thin lines in the halftone image using the predefined kernel based on predetermined rules. The enhancement unit may include a variety of known related art or later developed interface s including software interfaces e.g. an application programming interface a graphical user interface etc. hardware interfaces e.g. cable connectors a keyboard a card reader a barcode reader a biometric scanner an interactive display screen etc. or both.

In another embodiment the enhancement unit may be preconfigured or dynamically configured to interact with the halftone generator or the memory unit and the output unit via a server not shown over the network. The server may be installed integrated or operatively associated with the enhancement unit . The server may be implemented as any of a variety of computing devices including for example a general purpose computing device multiple networked servers arranged in clusters or as a server farm a mainframe or so forth.

In other embodiments the enhancement unit may be installed on or integrated with any network appliance not shown configured to establish the network between the enhancement unit and other devices such as the memory unit the halftone generator and the output unit . At least one of the enhancement unit and the network appliance may be capable of operating as or providing an interface to assist exchange of software instructions and data among the memory unit the halftone generator and the output unit . In some embodiments the network appliance may be preconfigured or dynamically configured to include the enhancement unit integrated with other devices. For example the enhancement unit may be integrated with the halftone generator or any other user device not shown connected to the network. The halftone generator may include a module not shown which enables that the halftone generator being introduced to the network appliance thereby enabling the network appliance to invoke the enhancement unit as a service. Examples of the network appliance include but are not limited to a DSL modem a wireless access point a router a base station and a gateway having a predetermined computing power sufficient for implementing the enhancement unit . The enhancement unit may generate an enhanced halftone image in which the width of thin lines may be increased and transmit the enhanced halftone image to the output unit . In some embodiments the enhancement may store the enhanced halftone image in the memory unit .

The output unit may be in communication with the enhancement unit via a wired or wireless connection to receive the enhanced halftone image from the enhancement unit or the memory unit . Examples of the output unit may include but without limitation a handling device such as a print head controller a storage device such as the memory unit or any computing device such as a laptop a mobile phone and a printer. In one embodiment the output unit may be configured to store process or print the enhanced halftone image. For example the output unit may be a printer including one or more printing or marking engines configured to print an electronic image with or without thin line enhancement. The marking engines may be configured for various printing technologies such as for example xerographic ink jet bubble jet laser offset solid ink dye sublimation or the like. One having ordinary skill in the art will understand that these printing technologies are merely exemplary and others may similarly be used.

As shown in the kernel may include thirty five cells hereinafter also referred to as check cells each check cell being representative of one or more pixels when the kernel is associated with the halftone image. Each check cell may be capable of being toggled between an active state and an inactive state. The kernel may be applied with predetermined rules such as those discussed below to convert a predefined set of check cells into rule cells. A rule cell may be defined as a set of check cells being in active state based on the applied predetermined rules. For example as shown in the kernel includes rule cells A to U that are in active state based on the applied predetermined rules. In some embodiments each rule cell may include one or more check cells. The enhancement unit may use such rule cells to detect one or more thin lines their respective directions and spacing there between. The kernel may also include one or more processing cells at predefined locations. In one embodiment the kernel may include a single processing cell X at the coordinate 3 4 of the kernel . The coordinate 3 4 refers to the third row and fourth column of the kernel .

The processing cell X may be associated with each pixel of the halftone image to detect a neighboring pixel pattern comprising for example one or more inactive pixels which may refer to white pixels in the halftone image where such neighboring pixel pattern is in communication with an active pixel which may refer to one or more dark or black pixels in communication with the thin line in the halftone image. The enhancement unit may toggle the processing cell X to activate the inactive pixel for placing an additional dot or active pixel i.e. a black or any color pixel to increase the width of the thin line based on various predetermined rules. Examples of such rules are shown in equations 1 to 4. 1 2 3 4 

Equations 1 to 4 show Boolean expressions for the rules where symbol stands for an AND operation symbol stands for a NOT operation symbol stands for an OR operation. The equations 1 to 4 also include alphabets A to U that refer to the respective rule cells A to U shown in the kernel and indicate their corresponding states. For example the alphabets may represent an active state e.g. value 1 unless preceded by the symbol which may refer to an inactive state e.g. value 0 of the corresponding rule cell.

In some embodiments the predetermined rules may include one or more sub rules each of which may implement a kernel pattern based on the states for example active state or inactive state of the rule cells. For example the equation 1 may be expanded as shown in equation 5 into six sub rules as shown in equations 6 to 11 which undergo an OR operation with each other. 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 

Each sub rule may be applied to the kernel for generating different kernel patterns that detect at least one pair of closely spaced thin lines each being oriented in the same or different directions. For example the sub rule of equation 6 may be applied to generate a first patterned kernel the sub rule of equation 7 may be applied to generate a second patterned kernel the sub rule of equation 8 may be applied to generate a third patterned kernel the sub rule of equation 9 may be applied to generate a fourth patterned kernel the sub rule of equation 10 may be applied to generate a fifth patterned kernel and the sub rule of equation 11 may be applied to generate a sixth patterned kernel . Similar to the rule in equation 1 other rules such as those shown in equations 2 to 4 may be applied to the kernel to detect thin lines in a halftone image. In some embodiments various rules may be predetermined based on the kernel size and the number of thin lines to be detected.

In the patterned kernels and collectively patterned kernels each of the patterned cells and white cells may indicate the applied rules such as those shown in equations 1 to 4 that need to be true for activating an inactive image pixel that is located at the processing cell X in the kernel . Such inactive image pixel is hereinafter referred to as processing pixel X not shown . In the neighborhood of the processing pixel X the patterned cells for example the cells D G H M Q T U in represent the rule cells that check for active pixels e.g. value 1 and the white cells check for inactive pixels e.g. value 0 when the kernel is associated with the halftone image. In some embodiments certain white cells may be predefined to check for mandatory presence of inactive pixels in the halftone image based on the predetermined rules to maintain a predefined separation between the processing pixel X upon being activated and a neighboring active pixel. Such predefined white cells are hereinafter referred to as preset cells. In the illustrated example of the patterned kernel includes the white cells K and N being defined as preset cells based on the sub rule of equation 6. Similarly the patterned kernel may include the white cells G H I J K N R being defined as preset cells the patterned kernel may include preset cells J K N R being defined as preset cells the patterned kernel may include preset cells K N R being defined as preset cells the patterned kernel may include preset cells N R being defined as preset cells and the patterned kernel may include preset cells N R being defined as preset cells.

The enhancement unit may determine the state of halftone image pixels i.e. the active pixels or the inactive pixels in the neighborhood of the processing pixel X based on each sub rule of the predetermined rules being implemented using the kernel . When a predetermined rule or in some embodiments a predetermined sub rule is true e.g. having a result value 1 the enhancement unit may perform an OR operation between the rule result i.e. rule result 1 and a Boolean expression for a row such as row of the kernel where the processing pixel X is located in communication with the processing cell X. In other words the inactive processing pixel X i.e. value 0 and an adjacent active pixel i.e. value 1 which may form a portion of the thin line in the halftone image may undergo an OR operation by the enhancement unit to activate the inactive processing pixel X for increasing the width of a thin line. Such Boolean activation of the processing pixel X using the processing cell X of the kernel is shown in an exemplary equation 12. 12 

In equation 12 symbol indicates the OR operation X indicates the inactive processing pixel X e.g. having a value 0 M indicates an active pixel e.g. having a value 1 in communication with the thin line and V indicates the active processing pixel X e.g. having a value 1 .

Further the enhancement unit may shift the processing cell X over the halftone image to associate the processing cell X with each pixel of the halftone image for determining the state of the neighboring pixels based on the predetermined rules. When the processing cell X is associated with the halftone image pixels the associated pixel values may be stored in the variables for each of the corresponding check cells in the kernel . The pixel values may be used by the enhancement unit to determine whether a halftone image pixel is in active state or inactive state. For example the state of a pixel may be determined to be inactive by the enhancement unit if a related value of the pixel is zero otherwise the pixel may be determined to be active.

Upon associating the processing cell X with an image pixel the check cells that are located outside the halftone image undergo bit stuffing. According to the bit stuffing method the enhancement unit inputs a dummy data bit for example a zero bit into the variables for cells located outside the halftone image. The dummy data bit indicates a value for non relevant or non existing image pixels. Such bit stuffing allows appropriate computation of the predetermined rules for a valid determination of thin lines with respect to the orientation of the halftone image. However a person ordinarily skilled in the art may implement other suitable methods known in the art related art or developed later for computation of predetermined rules within a region of interest in the halftone image for thin line determination. The processing cell X shifts on a pixel by pixel basis for analyzing inactive pixels in the halftone image. Each new corresponding inactive pixel that is spaced from a neighboring active pixel by at least one inactive pixel e.g. a white pixel or a background pixel may be activated by the enhancement unit using the processing cell X as discussed above. In one embodiment the inactive pixel may be in communication with a thin line.

In one embodiment the enhancement unit may include any of the known related art or later developed interfaces that may be accessed by a user to dynamically control the enhancement unit for varying the width of a thin line maximum by N pixels which is defined in equation 7. Max 1 13 

In equation 13 Max refers to the maximum number of inactive pixels e.g. those pixels which are not active between a pair of active pixels located on separate thin lines. These active pixels may be separated by the shortest pixelated distance between the thin lines. For example as shown in a first thin line may be separated from a second thin line by nine inactive pixels e.g. white pixels . From pixel Z in communication with the first thin line the width of the first thin line may be increased maximum by eight pixels i.e. 9 1 8 in order to maintain a separation of at least one inactive pixel between the first thin line and the second thin line collectively thin lines .

The thin line width may be varied up to N pixels based on predefined enhancement levels which may be configured into the enhancement unit as predefined enhancement modes. Each enhancement mode may be bounded by a predefined condition that maintains a predefined separation e.g. using inactive pixels between the thin lines. In one embodiment the enhancement unit may be configured with three enhancement modes for activating a predefined number of inactive pixels to increase the width of the thin line.

In a first enhancement mode the enhancement unit may activate one or more inactive pixels in communication with an active pixel which is in communication with the thin line. The number of inactive pixels activated upon user request or determined by enhancement unit may be equivalent to a number of inactive pixels that maintains the maximum initial pixel width of the thin line. For example as shown in only a single pixel Z in communication with the thin line may be activated by the enhancement unit if the predetermined maximum initial width of the thin line is set at two active pixels. In a second enhancement mode the enhancement unit may activate up to three additional inactive pixels in communication with an active pixel of the thin line provided any of the newly active pixels are spaced by at least one inactive pixel from a neighboring active pixel of the thin line . In a third enhancement mode the enhancement unit may activate only one additional pixel in communication with an active pixel of the thin line provided the newly active pixel is not merged with a neighboring active pixel of the thin line . An active pixel may be said to be merged with a neighboring active pixel when there is no inactive pixel e.g. a white pixel between the active pixel and the neighboring active pixel. The enhancement unit may be configured to execute the three enhancement modes in a predefined order. For example the enhancement unit may automatically or manually by a user activate the first enhancement mode initially then after completion of processing of the first enhancement mode activate the second enhancement mode followed by the third enhancement mode. However in some embodiments such enhancement modes may be executed in any order by the enhancement unit based on one or more user requests. In some embodiments the enhancement unit may allow a user to apply each predefined enhancement mode multiple times while maintaining a predefined separation between each pair of active pixels in which at least one active pixel is in communication with a portion of a thin line.

The enhancement unit may execute the enhancement modes using the kernel based on the predetermined rules in a halftone image for example a halftone image shown in based on one or more user requests. In a first example shown in the enhancement unit may modify a halftone image based on the predetermined rules to generate a first modified image by applying the first enhancement mode. The first modified image illustrates a first set of pixels such as pixels and collectively first pixel set that indicate the newly activated pixels using the kernel under the first enhancement mode. In a second example shown in the enhancement unit may modify the first modified image based on the applied predetermined rules to generate a second modified image by applying the second enhancement mode. The second modified image illustrates a second set of pixels such as pixels and collectively second pixel set in addition to the first pixel set . The second pixel set indicates the newly or additionally activated pixels using the kernel under the second enhancement mode. In a third example shown in the enhancement unit may modify the second modified image based on the applied predetermined rules to generate a third modified image by applying the third enhancement mode. The third modified image illustrates a third set of pixels such as pixels and collectively third pixel set in addition to the first pixel set and the second pixel set . The third pixel set indicates the newly or additionally activated pixels using the kernel under the third enhancement mode.

The order in which the method is described is not intended to be construed as a limitation and any number of the described method blocks may be combined or otherwise performed in any order to implement the method or an alternate method. Additionally individual blocks may be deleted from the method without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure described herein.

The method describes an exemplary implementation of the enhancement unit . One having ordinary skill in the art will understand that the method may be modified appropriately for implementation with other configurations and methods without departing from the scope and spirit of the disclosure.

At step a halftone image is received. The enhancement unit receives a halftone image having various tones of gray or color being produced as patterns of various sized dots. The halftone image may be received from the halftone generator or a storage space such as the memory unit . The halftone image may include a number of active pixels and inactive pixels arranged in a predetermined pattern. For example the halftone image may include one or more thin lines such as the thin lines each being a contiguous set of active pixels which may be separated from another thin line by one or more inactive pixels. In some embodiments a thin line such as the thin line may be two pixel wide or any other width depending on the image resolution.

At step a predefined kernel is associated with at least a portion of the received halftone image. The kernel may refer to a matrix of cells that defines a region of interest in an electronic image such as the halftone image where the predetermined rules may be applied. The kernel may be stored in the memory unit and fetched by the enhancement unit for use. The size of the kernel may be predefined based on the number of thin lines to be determined in the halftone image. For example the kernel may be a 5 7 matrix having five rows and seven columns for determining a closely spaced pair of thin lines in the halftone image. The kernel may include a processing cell X and multiple check cells each capable of being shifted from an inactive state to an active state and vice versa.

The enhancement unit may be configured to apply the predetermined rules such as those shown in equations 1 to 4 to the kernel for converting one or more check cells into rule cells that are in active state e.g. value 1 . In one embodiment the enhancement unit may associate the kernel particularly the processing cell X with at least a portion of the halftone image to detect one or more thin lines their respective directions and spacing there between.

At step a state of each of the pixels in the neighborhood of at least one inactive pixel associated with the processing cell X based on one or more predetermined rules being applied to the kernel is detected. The enhancement unit may be configured to associate the processing cell X with a portion of the halftone image on a pixel by pixel basis and detect an inactive pixel in the halftone image at an image location associated with the processing pixel X. In one embodiment the inactive pixel may be in communication with a contiguous set of active pixels for example a thin line. Neighboring pixels of such inactive pixel may also be verified by the enhancement unit for being active or inactive based on the predetermined rules such as those in equations 1 to 4 applied to the kernel . The predetermined rules transform one or more inactive check cells e.g. having value 0 of the kernel into a set of rule cells which are in active state e.g. having value 1 . The rest of the check cells may be inactive e.g. having value 0 . The inactive check cells may include preset cells such as the preset cells N and R in which represent a mandatory condition that requires the correspondingly associated image pixels to be inactive in the halftone image. In some embodiments the check cells including the rule cells that are outside the boundary of the halftone image may be given dummy bit values e.g. value 0 based on bit stuffing for ease in computation.

At step the at least one inactive pixel is selectively activated by activating the processing cell X based on the one or more predetermined rules provided the at least one inactive pixel upon being activated is separated from a neighboring active pixel. When the applied predetermined rule is true e.g. result value 1 the enhancement unit may detect an inactive pixel being in communication with the contiguous set of active pixels using the set of rule cells. Such inactive pixel may be selectively activated while the inactive pixel being separated from a neighboring active pixel by performing an OR operation between the rule result i.e. result value 1 and a Boolean expression for a matrix row such as row three of the kernel where the corresponding inactive cell may be located for example as discussed above with respect to equation 12.

In some embodiments the enhancement unit may selectively activate the inactive pixel associated with the processing cell X based on one or more predefined levels upon receiving a user request. Each of the predefined levels may define a predefined set of inactive pixels that can be activated by the enhancement unit where the inactive pixels may be in communication with a contiguous set of active pixels. Such predefined set of inactive pixels may be less than the maximum number of inactive pixels along the shortest pixelated distance between the selectively activated inactive pixel and a neighboring active pixel. One ordinarily skilled in the art will be able to understand that the above method can be applied to an inverse halftone image that includes inactive pixels being represented as black or any other color pixels e.g. having a non zero value and active pixels being represented as white pixels e.g. having value 0 .

The above description does not provide specific details of manufacture or design of the various components. Those of skill in the art are familiar with such details and unless departures from those techniques are set out techniques known related art or later developed designs and materials should be employed. Those in the art are capable of choosing suitable manufacturing and design details.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the disclosure. It will be appreciated that several of the above disclosed and other features and functions or alternatives thereof may be combined into other systems or applications. Various presently unforeseen or unanticipated alternatives modifications variations or improvements therein may subsequently be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope of the present disclosure as encompassed by the following claims.

