---

title: Enhancing event summaries of synced online content management system interactions
abstract: Disclosed are systems, methods, and computer-readable storage media for enhancing event summaries of synced online content management system interactions. Users can identify one or more of the collapsed events markers that have pointers to the original, uncondensed, event markers. Upon identifying the one or more collapsed event markers, users can add additional data, via the pointers, to the original, uncondensed, event markers that were used to generate the collapsed event marker. The content management system can then perform a new analysis of the shared dataspace, analyzing the event markers using pre-existing data and the newly added data to create additional collapsed event markers, modify previously generated collapsed event markers, or remove/replace collapsed event markers. These enriched collapsed event markers can then newly presented to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09411846&OS=09411846&RS=09411846
owner: Dropbox, Inc.
number: 09411846
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150811
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 725 647 filed Dec. 21 2012 the contents of the above patent application is hereby expressly incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes herein.

The present disclosure relates to enhancing event summaries of synced online content management system interactions and more specifically to receiving additional information describing interactions with a synced online content management system and presenting an enhanced description of the previous and additional interactions to a user.

Digests or compendiums condense or abbreviate data yielding more efficient reports and descriptions of the data when compared to the raw data. For example a daily digest email can take all the emails sent to a listserv or an email address over a 24 hour period and compile them into a single email summarizing the previous 24 hours of listserv email account activity. Similarly reports of manufacturing activity can be automated to report the production of specific widgets within a specific time period. Yet another example of a digest are the plot summaries provided at the beginning of television shows where brief summaries of previous episodes explain continuing plot lines from previous episodes to remind and inform current viewers making for an improved viewing experience.

When storing data servers and databases can record every interaction of a user or users with the database or every file operation executed on behalf of the user. Database managers or other users can then search through these interactions for specific events such as when a user added or modified a specific file. However because these lists of interactions can grow to significant size users parsing through the data are challenged to understand patterns when looking at individual interactions. Where multiple users can be granted access to a database server or cloud based storage space this storage area can be referred to as a shared dataspace. 

Features and advantages of the disclosure will be set forth in the description which follows and in part will be obvious from the description or can be learned by practice of the herein disclosed principles. The features and advantages of the disclosure can be realized and obtained by means of the instruments and combinations particularly pointed out hereinafter. These and other features of the disclosure will become more fully apparent from the following description and accompanying drawings or can be learned by the practice of the principles set forth herein.

Disclosed are systems methods and non transitory computer readable storage media for enhancing event summaries of synced online content management system interactions by including pointers in system file journals to enriched event description data. Programs and applications can record every interaction with a shared database with the records of those interactions being named event markers. Example event markers can include records of the name of a file uploaded to the database when the file was uploaded who performed the uploading the size of the file where the file was stored granting of access to the shared dataspace to a particular user etc. To condense long lists of event markers systems configured according to this disclosure can search for a commonality shared among several or all of the event markers recorded.

Using the commonality to create a collapsed event marker the system can store and or present the condensed event markers to users who can then analyze the summarized data with the event markers in the more manageable condensed format. Users can then identify one or more of the collapsed events markers which have pointers to the original uncondensed event markers. Upon identifying the one or more collapsed event markers users can add additional data via the pointers to the original uncondensed event markers that were used to generate the collapsed event marker. The system can then perform a new analysis of the shared dataspace analyzing the event markers using pre existing data and the newly added data to create additional collapsed event markers modify previously generated collapsed event markers or remove replace collapsed event markers. These enriched collapsed event markers can then be newly presented to the user. The system can present event markers to the user via a popup notification on a desktop or mobile computing device via email via an entry in an event log and so forth.

Various embodiments of the disclosure are discussed in detail below. While specific implementations are discussed it should be understood that this is done for illustration purposes only. A person skilled in the art will recognize that other components and configurations may be used without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure.

The disclosed technology addresses the need in the art for enhancing collapsed or condensed event markers in a synced online content management system by including pointers in system file journals to enriched event description data.

An exemplary system configuration is shown in wherein electronic devices communicate via a network for purposes of exchanging content and other data. System can be configured for use on a wide area network such as that shown in . However the present principles are applicable to a wide variety of network configurations that facilitate the intercommunication of electronic devices such as a local area network wireless network etc. For example each of the components of system in can be implemented in a localized or distributed fashion in a network.

In system a user can interact with content management system through client devices . . . collectively connected to network by direct and or indirect communication. Content management system can support connections from a variety of different client devices such as desktop computers mobile computers mobile communications devices e.g. mobile phones smart phones tablets smart televisions set top boxes and or any other network enabled computing devices. Client devices can be of varying type capabilities operating systems etc. Furthermore content management system can concurrently accept connections from and interact with multiple client devices .

A user can interact with content management system via a client side application installed on client device . In some embodiments the client side application can include a content management system specific component. For example the component can be a stand alone application one or more application plug ins and or a browser extension. However the user can also interact with content management system via a third party application such as a web browser that resides on client device and is configured to communicate with content management system . In either case the client side application can present a user interface UI for the user to interact with content management system . For example the user can interact with the content management system via a client side application integrated with the file system or via a webpage displayed using a web browser application.

Content management system can make it possible for a user to store content as well as perform a variety of content management tasks such as retrieve modify browse and or share the content. Furthermore content management system can make it possible for a user to access the content from multiple client devices . For example client device can upload content to content management system via network . The content can later be retrieved from content management system using the same client device or some other client device .

To facilitate the various content management services a user can create an account with content management system . The account information can be maintained in user account database . User account database can store profile information for registered users. In some cases the only personal information in the user profile can be a username and or email address. However content management system can also be configured to accept additional user information.

User account database can also include account management information such as account type e.g. free or paid usage information e.g. file edit history maximum storage space authorized storage space used content storage locations security settings personal configuration settings content sharing data etc. Account management module can be configured to update and or obtain user account details in user account database . The account management module can be configured to interact with any number of other modules in content management system .

An account can be used to store content such as documents text files audio files video files etc. from one or more client devices authorized on the account. The content can also include folders of various types with different behaviors or other mechanisms of grouping content items together. For example an account can include a public folder that is accessible to any user. The public folder can be assigned a web accessible address. A link to the web accessible address can be used to access the contents of the public folder. In another example an account can include a photos folder that is intended for photos and that provides specific attributes and actions tailored for photos an audio folder that provides the ability to play back audio files and perform other audio related actions or other special purpose folders. An account can also include shared folders or group folders that are linked with and available to multiple user accounts. The permissions for multiple users may be different for a shared folder.

The content can be stored in content storage . Content storage can be a storage device multiple storage devices or a server. Alternatively content storage can be a cloud storage provider or network storage accessible via one or more communications networks. Content management system can hide the complexity and details from client devices so that client devices do not need to know exactly where the content items are being stored by content management system . In one variation content management system can store the content items in the same folder hierarchy as they appear on client device . However content management system can store the content items in its own order arrangement or hierarchy. Content management system can store the content items in a network accessible storage SAN device in a redundant array of independent disks RAID etc. Content storage can store content items using one or more partition types such as FAT FAT32 NTFS EXT2 EXT3 EXT4 ReiserFS BTRFS and so forth.

Content storage can also store metadata describing content items content item types and the relationship of content items to various accounts folders or groups. The metadata for a content item can be stored as part of the content item or can be stored separately. In one variation each content item stored in content storage can be assigned a system wide unique identifier.

Content storage can decrease the amount of storage space required by identifying duplicate files or duplicate segments of files. Instead of storing multiple copies content storage can store a single copy and then use a pointer or other mechanism to link the duplicates to the single copy. Similarly content storage can store files more efficiently as well as provide the ability to undo operations by using a file version control that tracks changes to files different versions of files including diverging version trees and a change history. The change history can include a set of changes that when applied to the original file version produce the changed file version.

Content management system can be configured to support automatic synchronization of content from one or more client devices . The synchronization can be platform agnostic. That is the content can be synchronized across multiple client devices of varying type capabilities operating systems etc. For example client device can include client software which synchronizes via a synchronization module at content management system content in client device s file system with the content in an associated user account. In some cases the client software can synchronize any changes to content in a designated folder and its sub folders such as new deleted modified copied or moved files or folders. The client software can be a separate software application can integrate with an existing content management application in the operating system or some combination thereof. In one example of client software that integrates with an existing content management application a user can manipulate content directly in a local folder while a background process monitors the local folder for changes and synchronizes those changes to content management system . Conversely the background process can identify content that has been updated at content management system and synchronize those changes to the local folder. The client software can provide notifications of synchronization operations and can provide indications of content statuses directly within the content management application. Sometimes client device may not have a network connection available. In this scenario the client software can monitor the linked folder for file changes and queue those changes for later synchronization to content management system when a network connection is available. Similarly a user can manually stop or pause synchronization with content management system .

A user can also view or manipulate content via a web interface generated and served by user interface module . For example the user can navigate in a web browser to a web address provided by content management system . Changes or updates to content in the content storage made through the web interface such as uploading a new version of a file can be propagated back to other client devices associated with the user s account. For example multiple client devices each with their own client software can be associated with a single account and files in the account can be synchronized between each of the multiple client devices .

Content management system can include a communications interface for interfacing with various client devices and can interact with other content and or service providers . . . collectively via an Application Programming Interface API . Certain software applications can access content storage via an API on behalf of a user. For example a software package such as an app on a smartphone or tablet computing device can programmatically make calls directly to content management system when a user provides credentials to read write create delete share or otherwise manipulate content. Similarly the API can allow users to access all or part of content storage through a web site.

Content management system can also include authenticator module which can verify user credentials security tokens API calls specific client devices and so forth to ensure only authorized clients and users can access files. Further content management system can include analytics module that can track and report on aggregate file operations user actions network usage total storage space used as well as other technology usage or business metrics. A privacy and or security policy can prevent unauthorized access to user data stored with content management system .

Content management system can include sharing module for managing sharing content publicly or privately. Sharing content publicly can include making the content item accessible from any computing device in network communication with content management system . Sharing content privately can include linking a content item in content storage with two or more user accounts so that each user account has access to the content item. The sharing can be performed in a platform agnostic manner. That is the content can be shared across multiple client devices of varying type capabilities operating systems etc. The content can also be shared across varying types of user accounts.

In some embodiments content management system can include a content management module for maintaining a content directory. The content directory can identify the location of each content item in content storage . The content directory can include a unique content entry for each content item stored in the content storage.

A content entry can include a content path that can be used to identify the location of the content item in a content management system. For example the content path can include the name of the content item and a folder hierarchy associated with the content item. For example the content path can include a folder or path of folders in which the content item is placed as well as the name of the content item. Content management system can use the content path to present the content items in the appropriate folder hierarchy.

A content entry can also include a content pointer that identifies the location of the content item in content storage . For example the content pointer can include the exact storage address of the content item in memory. In some embodiments the content pointer can point to multiple locations each of which contains a portion of the content item.

In addition to a content path and content pointer a content entry can also include a user account identifier that identifies the user account that has access to the content item. In some embodiments multiple user account identifiers can be associated with a single content entry indicating that the content item has shared access by the multiple user accounts.

To share a content item privately sharing module can be configured to add a user account identifier to the content entry associated with the content item thus granting the added user account access to the content item. Sharing module can also be configured to remove user account identifiers from a content entry to restrict a user account s access to the content item.

To share content publicly sharing module can be configured to generate a custom network address such as a uniform resource locator URL which allows any web browser to access the content in content management system without any authentication. To accomplish this sharing module can be configured to include content identification data in the generated URL which can later be used to properly identify and return the requested content item. For example sharing module can be configured to include the user account identifier and the content path in the generated URL. Upon selection of the URL the content identification data included in the URL can be transmitted to content management system which can use the received content identification data to identify the appropriate content entry and return the content item associated with the content entry.

In addition to generating the URL sharing module can also be configured to record that a URL to the content item has been created. In some embodiments the content entry associated with a content item can include a URL flag indicating whether a URL to the content item has been created. For example the URL flag can be a Boolean value initially set to 0 or false to indicate that a URL to the content item has not been created. Sharing module can be configured to change the value of the flag to 1 or true after generating a URL to the content item.

In some embodiments sharing module can also be configured to deactivate a generated URL. For example each content entry can also include a URL active flag indicating whether the content should be returned in response to a request from the generated URL. For example sharing module can be configured to only return a content item requested by a generated link if the URL active flag is set to 1 or true. Thus access to a content item for which a URL has been generated can be easily restricted by changing the value of the URL active flag. This allows a user to restrict access to the shared content item without having to move the content item or delete the generated URL. Likewise sharing module can reactivate the URL by again changing the value of the URL active flag to 1 or true. A user can thus easily restore access to the content item without the need to generate a new URL.

While content management system is presented with specific components it should be understood by one skilled in the art that the architectural configuration of system is simply one possible configuration and that other configurations with more or less components are also possible. For example content management system can include an event processing module and or a notifications module.

Having disclosed some system components the disclosure now turns to which shows an example of user interaction with a synced online content management system or system . As shown user using processing device such as a computer terminal or other computing device interacts with system providing synced online content management services. In certain configurations system can represent a program module or specific piece of software within the computer. In other configurations system is a separate computing device connected by a network or other communication link with computer .

As user interacts with system via computing device system can present collapsed events to user . These collapsed events can represent a summary or a condensed version of interactions with a shared dataspace by one or more users. For example as users add delete modify or rename files stored in an content management system capable of being shared amongst multiple users a shared dataspace each interaction can recorded. These records of the interactions also called event markers can then analyzed and condensed by system creating collapsed event markers.

As user reviews the collapsed event markers user can determine that the collapsed event markers or the underlying original event markers could be better described or organized by additional data associated with the event markers. In certain configurations the user can directly review the raw event marker data without first previewing the collapsed event marker and likewise determine that the raw event marker is lacking data. User can then communicate additional data to system which system can then append to the original event markers stored in event feed storage space . Event feed storage space can be a physically distinct storage space from system or can be a separate module of system . System can then perform a new analysis of the event markers condensing event markers based on common factors or thresholds using both the original data associated with the event markers and the additional data supplied by the user. These newly condensed event markers represent enriched collapsed events because they are based on both the original and supplemental data. System can then present enriched collapsed events to user .

In an alternate variation system can determine collect or gather additional data without any direct user interaction. For example system can analyze a user s interactions with the contents described by the event marker feed such as a message sent with a sharing request and deduce certain pieces of information therefrom. System can look up data from other sources such as a social network or email account to provide additional data to enrich the description of the event feed.

As content management system condenses the event markers into a list of collapsed event markers content management system may determine a quantity of event markers to merge into a single collapsed event. This determination can be based on a level of granularity content management system wishes to convey to future users. For instance content management system that reduces an event marker feed of 1 000 event markers to 5 collapsed event markers has a finer granularity than content management system that condenses the 1 000 event markers to 20 collapsed event markers. While some systems can rely on relative comparisons of granularity fine grained or course grained other systems can quantify the levels of granularity based on specific numbers of percentages. One example of this could be determining the granularity based on the maximum number of event markers which can be combined in a given collapsed event whereas other forms of determining granularity can be based on the number of collapsed events visible on a monitor display at a given time.

In yet other examples the granularity can be determined based on the amount of time between interactions. Therefore in one configuration content management system could condense any interactions with the shared dataspace that occur within 15 minutes of one another whereas in other configurations it could condense every interaction that occur within an hour a day or other time periods. The granularity can also be based on classifications of certain users. If Bob James and Mike were all co workers where Mike was a supervisor of Bob and James the interactions of Bob and James might be condensed together with Mike s interactions condensed separately. Yet other configurations can condense the feed in multiple ways or using multiple common factors or attributes. Thus the collapsed event markers can be organized both by the user who interacted with the shared dataspace and the type of action performed or any other combination of factors or attributes. Content management system can collapse condense or summarize all events or file operations or a subset thereof. In some instances the event log of file operations can contain many single file operations that are not combinable or collapsible with others. However content management system can still apply an enriched description to a single event that is not condensed or combined with other events.

The condensed feeds can be generated for a specific individual or can be generic in nature. As shown collapsed event feed is specifically generated for Bob. Bob can have user preferences stored that pre determine the granularity of the collapsed event markers how often the collapsed event markers are determined what attributes are used to condense the event marker feed and who has access to the collapsed event marker feed. Should Mike James or another user attempt to view the collapsed event marker feed the listed collapsed event markers could be organized differently based on user preferences for that user. In this way the system can store more than one set of collapsed event markers or can generate the collapsed event markers separately in an on demand configuration waiting to create the collapsed event marker feed until requested or accessed by a user.

Each row in the event marker feed can represent a file operation activity or interaction with the shared dataspace by a user. Example interactions can include but are not limited to adding a file deleting a file modifying a file renaming a file granting a user access to the shared dataspace removing a user s access to the shared dataspace granting a user administrative rights in the shared dataspace making a file public and making a directory public. For example consider the interactions of Bob with the shared dataspace. Bob uploads or adds three files on 10 1 12 within two minutes Texas.jpg Florida.jpg and Alabama.jpg. These interactions are recorded as event markers where the event marker can describe the interaction by recording the type of activity when the interaction takes place Time what file or directory was interacted with Filename and or who performed the interaction User . As shown each event marker occupies a separate row in the event marker feed however other configurations can have event markers organized into columns separate records or structures chained together using pointers or other programming data management techniques for organizing multiple event markers.

As other users having access to the shared dataspace interact with the database content management system can record their actions as well. As shown in the interactions of James and Mike are recorded after Bob s interactions. However while example event marker feed only shows 7 interactions other feeds can have hundreds thousands millions or more interactions recorded as event markers. Whereas analyzing the illustrated 7 event markers is relatively simple analyzing thousands or millions of interactions can be cumbersome without means for automating the analysis and providing meaningful summaries of the interactions.

Systems configured according to this disclosure can provide users the capability to provide additional data to the records of interactions thereby updating the event marker feed with additional data fields. shows exemplary event marker feed containing additional data . Event marker feed can contain the same data shown in but can contain additional column of data . In column the user has added specific event data as pertaining to a summer vacation but in other variations content management system can generate or compile the additional descriptive information without direct user input.

Enhanced event marker feed can have a single additional column or can have multiple columns. In addition the additional data can depend on relationships with other data found in the event marker record. For instance one column could be a binary indication of a vacation and only if that column indicates that the event marker is related to a vacation could a second column contain additional data describing a location where the vacation took place. In addition if this event marker example has an additional column for work trips which is binary in nature and a column dependent from work trips which describes the location of the work trips the data from work trips and vacations can be correlated and condensed for a collapsed event marker. Interactions with the shared dataspace where photographs of Boston were added where the photographs were taken during separate vacation and work trips could be collapsed together creating a collapsed event describing the addition of photographs of Boston. In another configuration additional data can reflect modifications to data or files over a given time period. Other forms of additional data that can be recorded can include a label additional metadata additional source information a location of a user during upload download modification and a time of file origination.

Other configurations can obtain the additional data without direct influence from a user of the shared dataspace. For example a system administrator could determine that future event markers would record the additional event field language indicating the language of the user interacting with the shared dataspace in a given interaction. The system administrator might then fill in specific language fields based on previous interactions of a user and the shared dataspace.

After receiving additional data content management system can then perform a new analysis of the event markers using the additional data alongside the previous event marker data yielding enriched collapsed event feed markers. shows exemplary enriched collapsed event feed marker . In this example three of collapsed event feed markers are identical to those available prior to a user providing additional data. However fourth collapsed event marker describes the additional data associated with the events. In this case because the additional data of indicates that pictures added were of a summer vacation enriched collapsed feed can provide a collapsed event marker indicating the addition of summer vacation photographs.

Depending on a particular configuration content management system can include in the event log Between 10 1 12 and 10 3 12 Bob Mike and James added photographs concerning a summer vacation. If the enriched collapsed marker is generated for a specific individual additional customization may exist. Additionally as with an unenriched collapsed event marker the enriched collapsed event markers can be generated using specific commonalities and thresholds determined by users circumstances system requirements or system settings.

Having disclosed some basic system components and concepts the disclosure now turns to the example method embodiment shown in . For the sake of clarity the method is described in terms of exemplary content management system as shown in configured to practice the method. The steps outlined herein are examples and can be implemented in any combination thereof including combinations that exclude add or modify certain steps.

Content management system can first identify a collapsed event associated with activity on a shared dataspace the collapsed event having pointers to event markers associated with activity on the shared dataspace where the event markers were used to create the collapsed event . Example activities used to create collapsed events can include adding a file deleting a file modifying a file renaming a file granting a user access to the shared dataspace removing a user s access to the shared dataspace granting a user administrative rights in the shared dataspace making a file public and making a directory public. Content management system can then receive from a user additional data associated with the collapsed event . Such additional data can include a label additional source information a location of a user who performed the interaction with the shared dataspace and an origin of the data being manipulated. Content management system can add the additional data to the event markers using the pointers of the collapsed event . That is in many configurations rather than allowing users to directly manipulate the actual event markers previously recorded content management system can use pointers located in the collapsed feed to forward the additional data to the proper location in the list of event markers thereby protecting the original data and yet allowing for increased customization as well as an improved ability to condense large amounts of data.

Having received the additional data from the user content management system can recreate the collapsed event to yield an enriched collapsed event where the enriched collapsed event can include an indication of the additional data . Content management system can use based on the additional data additional event markers that were not included in the previous collapsing analysis. Consider the circumstance where a user has uploaded at different times a number of files named My favorite city A great weekend Best friends forever as well as several Italian books. However during the subsequent condensing analysis the Italian books and the separate files were not correlated and in the collapsed event feed the correlation between the books and the files was not made. The user later provides additional data indicating that the 3 files were associated with a trip to Rome. Content management system can recognize that Rome and Italian are closely related and provide an enriched collapsed event marker indicating the correlation.

Content management system can then present the enriched collapsed event to the user . This presentation can occur via a software client a log or other acceptable means for communicating data to a user. In addition content management system can prepare a notification describing the enriched collapsed event and then present that notification to an additional user of the shared dataspace. This notification preparation can be directly tied to a threshold that the enriched collapsed event must meet. An example of such a threshold could be A notification will not be sent to Jerry unless 5 event markers associated with Jerry receive additional data. When 5 event markers receive additional data the threshold is met and a notification can be generated and presented to Jerry.

To enable user interaction with the computing device an input device can represent any number of input mechanisms such as a microphone for speech a touch sensitive screen for gesture or graphical input keyboard mouse motion input speech and so forth. An output device can also be one or more of a number of output mechanisms known to those of skill in the art. In some instances multimodal systems can enable a user to provide multiple types of input to communicate with the computing device . The communications interface can generally govern and manage the user input and system output. There is no restriction on operating on any particular hardware arrangement and therefore the basic features here may easily be substituted for improved hardware or firmware arrangements as they are developed.

Storage device is a non volatile memory and can be a hard disk or other types of computer readable media which can store data that are accessible by a computer such as magnetic cassettes flash memory cards solid state memory devices digital versatile disks cartridges random access memories RAMs read only memory ROM and hybrids thereof.

The storage device can include software modules for controlling the processor . Other hardware or software modules are contemplated. The storage device can be connected to the system bus . In one aspect a hardware module that performs a particular function can include the software component stored in a computer readable medium in connection with the necessary hardware components such as the processor bus display and so forth to carry out the function.

Chipset can also interface with one or more communication interfaces that can have different physical interfaces. Such communication interfaces can include interfaces for wired and wireless local area networks for broadband wireless networks as well as personal area networks. Some applications of the methods for generating displaying and using the GUI disclosed herein can include receiving ordered datasets over the physical interface or be generated by the machine itself by processor analyzing data stored in storage or . Further the machine can receive inputs from a user via user interface components and execute appropriate functions such as browsing functions by interpreting these inputs using processor .

It can be appreciated that exemplary systems and can have more than one processor or be part of a group or cluster of computing devices networked together to provide greater processing capability.

For clarity of explanation in some instances the present technology may be presented as including individual functional blocks including functional blocks comprising devices device components steps or routines in a method embodied in software or combinations of hardware and software.

In some embodiments the computer readable storage devices mediums and memories can include a cable or wireless signal containing a bit stream and the like. However when mentioned non transitory computer readable storage media expressly exclude media such as energy carrier signals electromagnetic waves and signals per se.

Methods according to the above described examples can be implemented using computer executable instructions that are stored or otherwise available from computer readable media. Such instructions can comprise for example instructions and data which cause or otherwise configure a general purpose computer special purpose computer or special purpose processing device to perform a certain function or group of functions. Portions of computer resources used can be accessible over a network. The computer executable instructions may be for example binaries intermediate format instructions such as assembly language firmware or source code. Examples of computer readable media that may be used to store instructions information used and or information created during methods according to described examples include magnetic or optical disks flash memory USB devices provided with non volatile memory networked storage devices and so on.

Devices implementing methods according to these disclosures can comprise hardware firmware and or software and can take any of a variety of form factors. Typical examples of such form factors include laptops smart phones small form factor personal computers personal digital assistants and so on. Functionality described herein also can be embodied in peripherals or add in cards. Such functionality can also be implemented on a circuit board among different chips or different processes executing in a single device by way of further example.

The instructions media for conveying such instructions computing resources for executing them and other structures for supporting such computing resources are means for providing the functions described in these disclosures.

Although a variety of examples and other information was used to explain aspects within the scope of the appended claims no limitation of the claims should be implied based on particular features or arrangements in such examples as one of ordinary skill would be able to use these examples to derive a wide variety of implementations. Further and although some subject matter may have been described in language specific to examples of structural features and or method steps it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to these described features or acts. For example such functionality can be distributed differently or performed in components other than those identified herein. Rather the described features and steps are disclosed as examples of components of systems and methods within the scope of the appended claims.

