---

title: Camouflage patterns
abstract: Camouflage patterns on a substrate such as a fabric comprise in a first aspect a substrate having a camouflage pattern with a set of intermixed colored blotches thereon, the colors of the set of intermixed colored blotches being selected from a group of colors comprising an Olive 527 color, a Dark Green 528 color, a Tan 525 color, a Brown 529 color, a Bark Brown 561 color and a Dark Cream 559 color. In another aspect the colors of the set of intermixed colored blotches being selected from a group of colors comprising an Olive 527 color, a Dark Green 528 color, a Light Sage 560 color, a Tan 525 color, a Brown 529 color, a Bark Brown 561 color and a Dark Cream 559 color.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09631900&OS=09631900&RS=09631900
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09631900
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20150526
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 569 317 entitled CAMOUFLAGE PATTERNS filed Dec. 12 2014 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated herein.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the U.S. Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The aspects of the present disclosure relate generally to the field of camouflage and in particular a camouflage pattern and articles and objects with a camouflage pattern applied thereto.

Concealment through camouflage is used extensively by the military to reduce enemy perception of military installations units equipment and personnel with the objective to enhance mission success provide tactical advantage and survival. The general purpose of camouflage is to disrupt the perceived image of a target object whether the target object is a person vehicle building or other object. A goal of effective camouflage is to make the target object unrecognizable or indistinguishable from the environment in which it is in.

The importance of camouflage can vary based on the terrain and mission. In military applications for example the camouflage objectives are generally to minimize visual perception of soldiers in daylight and detection by image intensifier devices in reduced or non daylight environments. While camouflage is very often discussed and employed with respect to military applications other outdoor activities can also make use of camouflage patterns including for example hunting and wildlife observation.

To be effective camouflage must be capable of being seen by an observer. In military applications the objective is to make the soldier appear to be an organic part of the scene in a manner that will not cue an observer s eye. The term cue as is used herein is generally intended to mean to draw attention or focus. Disruptive camouflage or disruptive patterning is a form of camouflage that works by breaking up the outlines of the object using a strongly contrasting pattern that is applied to the object. In such disruptive patterning the disruption of the outline s of the object depends on the high contrast of the camouflage pattern.

A camouflage pattern will typically include one or more blotches of color. The term blotch or blotches as is used herein generally refers to varying regular shapes e.g. but not limited to circles ovals ellipses and irregular shapes all of varying sizes dimensions appearance contrast and color.

Generally the blotches of color in the camouflage have to be conspicuous. If the level of breakup of a camouflage pattern for a particular background or conflict distance is insufficient the soldier will not blend with the scene. If the soldier does not blend in with the scene the soldier can be detected or cued in on from a further range. It would be advantageous to provide a camouflage pattern where the observer will perceive more break up of the camouflage pattern over longer distances.

An effective camouflage pattern is a first line of defense against an opposing force. Not being detected will increase survivability. It would be advantageous to provide a camouflage pattern that offers improved concealment and will enhance force protection and survivability for soldiers.

There have been many approaches trying to address camouflage patterns. The most common appearance of military camouflage are various forms of curving shapes in the camouflage pattern that appear in three to four natural earth tone colors. One example of such an approach is the woodland pattern used by the U.S. Army beginning in 1981 for its Battle Dress Uniform. A four color pattern chosen for this design included the colors Light Green Dark Green Brown and Black. In an article written by Alvin O. Ramsley entitled Psychophysics of Modern Camouflage U.S. Army Natick Research and Development Laboratories 1982 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference the performance and advantages of this four color pattern over the older pattern that it replaced are discussed. In certain environments this four color pattern provided the advantage of a disruptive pattern at longer ranges than previously realized. However the Woodland pattern may not perform well across the range of environments and terrains in which the military currently operates.

Based on efforts conducted in coordination with the US Army Corps of Engineers Cold Regions Research and Engineering Center CRREL the Global Land Cover 2000 GLC2000 product developed by the U.N. Food and Agriculture Organization may be used in determining land cover classes and further used as a means to describe terrain types with military relevance. These classes have been categorized into arid woodland and transitional.

In using the GLC2000 classifications vegetation types generally consist of trees shrubs and cropland herbaceous grasses . The types of terrain areas and background can generally be defined in terms of crown cover the percentage of ground that is covered by plant perimeters e.g. trees shrubs or grass . Arid areas can be classified either as bare areas along with a color for the predominant sand soil in the environment bare areas dark for example or sparse herbaceous sparse shrub cover SHSSC . A deciding factor between the arid transitional and woodland areas can be based on the amount of crown cover that is present in the scene. In order for a SHSSC area to be considered arid the area would need to have less than 20 crown cover consisting of shrubs or grasses only not trees otherwise the area is classified as transitional. A woodland area is generally a closed crown situation 60 crown cover and the terrain is generally made up mostly of trees height would be greater than 5 m . Transitional areas would be made up of any area dominated by shrubs crops mixed tree covers containing both trees and shrubs savannas or a combination thereof. The Army Woodland BDU was designed for a limited environment consisting of green leafy terrain with a heavy canopy. The Woodland BDU can be perceived to be too dark in terrains such as arid or transitional areas. This can reduce the effectiveness of the Army Woodland BDU in environments other than those for which it was originally designed.

For military applications creating a camouflage out of a replica of a single specific background is inadequate. The military needs camouflage that will be applicable in many different environments and under different weather conditions with the minimum number of uniform sets. In addition the military needs a camouflage pattern that works well in the visible spectrum as well as in the near infrared NIR and shortwave infrared SWIR range of the spectrum.

U.S. Design Pat. No. D487 848 to Crye et al. issued on 30 Mar. 2004 the 848 Patent is directed to a camouflage pattern applied to a substrate. The colors in the 848 Patent tend to be light and muted causing them to be of low contrast relative to each other. Also the blotch sizes of the camouflage pattern of the 848 Patent such as for example the cream and dark brown blotches are small in size and area. These factors can contribute to a pattern being perceived by an observer as merged together at distances that are shorter than desired.

The low contrast of the colors of the 848 Patent can be disadvantageous as colors with low contrast will be perceived to merge together into a single color at shorter distances. It would be advantageous to provide a camouflage pattern that includes colors with a high contrast relative to each other and that will allow for a camouflage pattern to maintain an effective range over a greater distance before the colors in the pattern appear to the observer to merge into a single monotone color.

Smaller color differences between blotches in a camouflage pattern demonstrate low contrast. Larger differences in color between blotches demonstrate higher contrast. Color can be defined as dimensions of a stimulus expressed in terms of lightness or value going from white to grey to black hue e.g. red green blue etc. and saturation or colorfulness. The term saturation as used herein generally refers to the amount of color in a given hue. It would be advantageous to provide a camouflage pattern where the colors are highly saturated and appear more vibrant to increase the internal contrast and maintain an effective range over a longer distance.

In the 848 Patent the blotch sizes of the camouflage design such as for example the cream and dark brown blotches are small in size and area. This reduces the amount of the lightest and darkest colors in the overall pattern. However the use of such smaller size pattern blotches will generally pose difficulties with the pattern blending in with larger clutter that may be apparent in the environment or scene. Smaller size blotches will also have a tendency to appear to an observer to merge into a monotone color at shorter ranges. It would be advantageous to provide a camouflage pattern where the sizes of the blotches in the camouflage pattern are enlarged to help give the pattern more perceived visual breakup over a longer distance. It would also be advantageous to increase the amount of area used in the pattern by for example the two colors that are of the highest contrast relative to each other to improve the effective range of the pattern before it is perceived to merge into a monotone color.

It is also noted that the gradients in the 848 Patent are generally subtle due to the low contrast between the colors and the design of the screens used to print the patterns. A gradient can be defined as an area of color that is not uniform for example it may be increasing or decreasing in the amount of colored ink applied along a particular direction. Contrast can be generally defined in terms of camouflage patterns as the level of difference in lightness hue or saturation between two or more neighboring blotches of color. The subtle gradients of the 848 Patent together with the low contrast between colors will generally provide a shorter effective range of the pattern. It would be advantageous to provide an increased gradient to provide a more dramatic difference between the lightest and darkest areas of a camouflage pattern.

Due to the light and muted nature of the colors of the 848 Patent a noticeable difference can be recognized when for example clothing or equipment with the pattern of the 848 Patent is mixed with clothing or equipment with patterns having darker colored patterns. As clothing and equipment patterns are printed darker it would be advantageous to provide a camouflage pattern that will blend better with existing uniforms and equipment.

Uniforms with camouflage patterns imprinted thereon will have a tendency to fade over time as the uniforms are laundered. Wear studies that have been conducted demonstrate that military clothing fades with use and laundering. A lighter colored pattern such as that of the 848 Patent will tend to become even lighter thus reducing the effective range of the pattern. It would be advantageous to provide a darker colored camouflage pattern that will maintain its effective range even after repeated use and laundering.

U.S. Design Pat. No. D592 861 to Crye et al. issued on 26 May 2009 the 861 Patent is directed to a substrate with a camouflage pattern. A pattern repeat of the camouflage design of the 861 Patent includes a combination of elongated vertically oriented lines or elements interspersed among blotches in a pattern repeat of the camouflage pattern. A pattern repeat as that term is generally understood includes a width and a length also referred to as fill and warp. The fill or width of the pattern repeat is generally in the horizontal direction. The warp or length of the repeat is generally along the vertical direction. In this and many other patterns the warp or length of the pattern repeat is less than the fill or width of the pattern repeat. The elongated vertically oriented lines or elements of the 861 Patent referred to above are disposed in the fill direction of the pattern repeat.

The distinctive vertically oriented line elements of the 861 Patent also referred to as vertical twig and branch elements are elongated and thin. Such elongated thin line elements will have a tendency to appear to merge together at shorter distances. The effectiveness of a camouflage pattern that includes elongated and thin vertically oriented line elements in transitional environments can be compromised due to signature cues in the vertical direction meaning that the elongated thin vertical line elements in the camouflage pattern will stand out or be readily perceived. It would be advantageous to provide a camouflage pattern that lacks signature cues in the vertical direction and thus has improved performance over a wide range of terrains.

The camouflage design of the 861 Patent includes numerous light and dark brown areas. The number of these smaller blotches creates a dense pattern of such blotches in the camouflage design. These smaller blotches together with the elongated vertically oriented lines or elements in the 861 Patent results in a cluttered appearance in the pattern of the 861 Patent. Over a longer range such a dense and cluttered pattern does not aid the wearer in preventing detection as much as a pattern with larger blotches in it. It would be advantageous to provide a camouflage pattern that does not result in a dense pattern of cluttered blotches to enhance detection prevention at longer distances.

Although there are numerous elements by count in the camouflage design of the 861 Patent the percentage of area of a pattern repeat that is taken up by the two colors of greatest contrast in the pattern dark brown and cream is similar and the average size of the blotches in the pattern is not large meaning that the blotches will not be seen as individual blotches over longer ranges. Rather the blotches will be perceived to merge together. It would be advantageous to be able to increase the range over which individual colors of the camouflage pattern blotches are seen as individual blotches.

The camouflage pattern design of the 861 Patent does not include light and dark color gradient portions that are generally uniform across the entirety of the warp or fill direction in the brown layer of a single pattern repeat. Rather the distribution of dark and light color regions of the camouflage pattern of the 861 Patent is random in direction size and location for the dark and light portions of the pattern. This results in gradient differences in the camouflage pattern of the 861 Patent that might be referred to as scattered. A disadvantage of such scattered gradient differences is that the pattern may not have any portion with larger sized blotches contrasting in color with other large or small blotches. This may result in a shorter effective range of the overall pattern.

U.S. Design Pat. No. D560 915 to Crye et al. issued 5 Feb. 2008 is directed to a camouflage pattern with a blocky or pixelated appearance. This camouflage pattern includes vertically oriented lines and elements interspersed on or within the camouflage pattern. The effectiveness of a pattern that includes vertical lines or elements can be compromised due to signature cues in the vertical direction.

U.S. Design Pat. No. D572 909 to Crye et al issued 15 Jul. 2008 is directed to a camouflage pattern. The design of the camouflage pattern of the 909 Patent is very similar to that of the 915 Patent in that it is also blocky or pixilated in appearance. The main difference between the 915 Patent and the 909 Patent is that the overall pattern of the camouflage design of the 909 Patent is lighter in coloring than that of the 915 Patent. The general geometry of the shapes in the pattern vertical stripes and gradients are substantially the same as that of the design of the 915 Patent. Changing the colors of the pattern of the 909 Patent to be lighter in shade from the pattern of the 915 Patent may only provide a slight increase in effectiveness when placed in arid like terrains. However the lighter colored pattern of the 909 Patent may have a tendency to be less effective in darker terrains.

Each of the 848 861 909 and 915 patents include seven separate color layers that combine together in printing and results in more than seven colors in the final pattern. Each color would be applied separately in the traditional rotary screen printing process as described in more detail below.

In 2010 a prototype camouflage design developed by the US Army Natick Soldier Research Development and Engineering Center NSRDEC also included a seven 7 color pattern. This pattern referred to as the W20601 pattern included the colors and color percentage scheme shown in Table I below. The color percentages represent the amount of the color in the pattern relative to the entire screen for one repeat of the pattern.

While suitable for its intended purposes the W20601 pattern was found to suffer from the deficiency of sufficient brown coloration in the pattern to accommodate certain environments and terrains such as arid and woodland dormant environments. This deficiency could limit the environments in which the W20601 pattern could be deployed as an effective camouflage pattern.

Accordingly it would be desirable to provide a camouflage pattern that addresses at least some of the problems identified above.

Table I illustrates each of the percentages of the seven colors that are present in the W20601 the 861 and the 848 camouflage patterns which are discussed above.

The combinations illustrated in Table I above are representative of the combination of colors when the different color channels or layers are overlaid during printing. It will be understood that during a camouflage pattern printing process such as a rotary screen printing process for example the different color layers of the camouflage pattern will be overlaid one on top of another. The manner and timing in which one color layer is overlaid onto another color layer in rotary screen printing is generally understood in the art. Generally the color dyes that are placed on the fabric dry at the same time as part of the process of rotary screen printing. This color layering process can result in the colors of the different color layers being combined during the printing process.

When a blotch of one color layer is similarly positioned relative to the location of a blotch of another color layer in a stack of color layers there will be a combination of the colors of the respective color blotches on the different color layers. This combination depending on the saturation and coverage of the respective colors can result in a different color or a gradient that combines the two or three colors layers involved in different amounts.

Using the Adobe Photoshop computer graphics or photo editing program the color percentage calculations in Table I above were determined using the following exemplary process 

Work with a Single RGB image to which layers can be added. If using a multichannel file use File Open as Smart Object first and save the resulting file to its own filename to avoid confusion.

Set the Magic Wand tool to Tolerance 10 Anti Alias Off Contiguous Off and Sample All Layers Off . Use the magic wand tool to select a region of the pattern that exhibits 100 coverage of a single color. Starting with the Cream and the Dark Brown blotches determine the pixel count using the histogram s uncached values for each of the independent colors.

If the region of interest with a gradient is composed of two colors that vary between 100 coverage and 0 coverage select the entire geometry where those colors appear. Pressing the Shift key will allow the adding of geometry to the selection pressing Alt will subtract it. Only select colors involved in the gradient.

The entire region that includes the gradient is selected and designated in a manner that demonstrates the selection area that is filled with the specified color. In the Adobe Photoshop program marching ants are used which is an animation technique often found in selection tools of computer graphics programs. The marching ants distinguish the selection border from the image background by animating the border with a dotted or dashed line. The dots or dashes will seem to walk slowly sideways and up and down.

A new layer is created based on the selected area. Using the paint bucket tool this selected area is filled in with white on the new layer. This will cause the marching ants to outline the area of interest avoiding the other colors. If an error is made un hide this layer re select the white area and hide it again.

Uncheck the eye to hide the white and select the background layer. Set the Magic Wand Tool to 10 Tolerance and Alt Click on one area from each of the colors that s fully covered. Doing this will unselect the areas in the geometry that are 100 covered by the colors involved in the gradient. Using the histogram write down the number of uncached pixels that are selected by the marching ants. This number will represent the number of pixels that are in between the 100 covered colors.

Divide each of the uncached pixel counts for each of the colors by the sum of the counts to find the ratio that each color takes in the pattern.

While the above exemplary process is described as being carried out using the Adobe Photoshop program it is noted that any suitable photo editor or computer graphics program can be used to determine the percentages of color in a camouflage pattern.

As described herein the exemplary embodiments overcome one or more of the above or other disadvantages known in the art.

One aspect of the exemplary embodiments relates to a camouflage pattern on a substrate comprising a substrate having a camouflage pattern with a set of intermixed colored blotches thereon the colors of the set of intermixed colored blotches being selected from a group of colors comprising an Olive 527 color a Dark Green 528 color a Tan 525 color a Brown 529 color a Bark Brown 561 color and a Dark Cream 559 color. Wherein in a single repeat of the camouflage pattern about 18.4 to and including 21.5 of the set of the colored blotches consist of the Olive 527 color about 12.9 to and including 15 of the set of the colored blotches consist of the Dark Green 528 color about 2.4 to and including 2.8 of the set of the colored blotches consist of the Tan 525 color about 28.7 to and including 33.5 of the set of the colored blotches consist of the Brown 529 color about 6.9 to and including 8.1 of the set of the colored blotches consist of the Bark Brown 561 color about 6.0 to and including 6.9 of the set of the colored blotches consist of the Dark Cream 559 color about 8.8 to and including 9.8 of the set of the colored blotches consist of a combination of the Dark Green 528 color and Olive 527 color and about 12.4 to and including 14.4 of the set of the colored blotches consist of a combination of the Brown 529 color and the Tan 525 color.

Another aspect of the exemplary embodiments relates to a camouflage pattern on a substrate comprising a substrate having a camouflage pattern with a set of intermixed colored blotches thereon. The colors of the set of intermixed colored blotches being selected from a group of colors comprising an Olive 527 color a Dark Green 528 color a Light Sage 560 color a Tan 525 color a Brown 529 color a Bark Brown 561 color and a Dark Cream 559 color. Wherein in a single repeat of the camouflage pattern about 19.5 to and including 22.7 of the set of colored blotches consist of the Olive 527 color about 12.9 to and including 15 of the set of the colored blotches consist of the Dark Green 528 color about 10.9 to and including 12.7 of the set of the colored blotches consist of the Light Sage 560 color about 2.3 to and including 2.6 of the set of the colored blotches consist of the Tan 525 color about 11.1 to and including 13 of the set of the colored blotches consist of the Brown 529 color about 6.9 to and including 8.1 of the set of the colored blotches consist of the Bark Brown 561 color about 6.0 to and including 6.9 of the set of the colored blotches consist of the Dark Cream 559 color about 8.1 to and including 9.5 of the set of the colored blotches consist of a combination of the Olive 527 color and the Dark Green 528 color and about 12.4 to and including 14.4 of the set of the colored blotches consist of a combination of the Light Sage 560 color the Tan 525 color and the Brown 529 color.

These and other aspects and advantages of the exemplary embodiments will become apparent from the following detailed description considered in conjunction with the accompanying drawings. It is to be understood however that the drawings are designed solely for purposes of illustration and not as a definition of the limits of the invention for which reference should be made to the appended claims. Additional aspects and advantages of the invention will be set forth in the description that follows and in part will be obvious from the description or may be learned by practice of the invention. Moreover the aspects and advantages of the invention may be realized and obtained by means of the instrumentalities and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims.

Referring to one example of a seven 7 color camouflage pattern incorporating aspects of the disclosed embodiments is illustrated. The aspects of the disclosed embodiments are directed to a seven color layer transitional camouflage pattern that represents a layering design effective to improve camouflage performance in the visual near infrared NIR and shortwave infrared regions SWIR of the electromagnetic spectrum. The unique camouflage pattern of the present disclosure can be applied to a substrate such as a military garment or combat uniform and is configured to provide improved concealment which enhances force protection and survivability for soldiers.

While the aspects of the disclosed embodiments are generally described herein with respect to a military garment or uniform the aspects of the disclosed embodiments are not so limited. Alternative applications of the camouflage pattern can include but are not limited to helmets helmet covers hats bags back packs netting vehicles aircraft tracked vehicles including tanks tents portable enclosures and buildings for example. Numerous other non military applications for the camouflage pattern of the disclosed embodiments can also be contemplated. These can include for example law enforcement hunting outdoor sports and other activities that can make use of the improved levels of concealment provided by the camouflage pattern of the present disclosure.

The exemplary design of the camouflage pattern illustrated in generally comprises seven 7 color layers a single layer being referred to as a layer . For the purposes of the disclosure herein a layer in the camouflage pattern may also be referred to as a color channel. While the aspects of the disclosed embodiments are described herein with respect to a seven color or layer camouflage pattern it will be understood that the combination of the seven color layers can result in a pattern that appears to have more than seven colors.

To provide the overall design of the camouflage pattern the seven layers are overlaid one layer on top of another layer in a camouflage printing process. A layer or color channel can have varying degrees of transparency. The design of the individual screens that make up a layer and which are used to print the camouflage pattern can allow some color channels to show through each other. This can allow for one or more gradients to appear in the overall design of the camouflage pattern .

As will be described further herein in one embodiment one color channel of the camouflage pattern is distinguishable from another color channel of the camouflage pattern by its color. A color channel will have a specific color with a specific color distribution and will provide a distinct individual pattern.

As noted above the W20601 pattern was found deficient in that insufficient brown coloration was present in the resulting pattern. In particular it was determined that there was a need to increase the amount of brown coloration i n the pattern to accommodate for environments and terrains such as the arid and woodland dormant environments. Relative to the W20601 pattern the camouflage pattern of the present disclosure increases the amount of brown appearing in the pattern changes the overlay of the screens in the brown region changes the physical size of the repeat of the pattern increases the sizes of the blotches in certain color channels and changes the colors of certain color channels of the pattern. The increased overlay of the screens in the brown region provides for the aggregative effect of layers of dyes and pigments with spectral properties in the near and shortwave infrared. This will result in additional signature reduction. Additionally the resulting increase in brown portions of the pattern advantageously reduces the percentage of the other colors in the pattern.

As noted the formation of the camouflage pattern shown in is a result of the combination of the seven color channels during a camouflage printing process. In a camouflage printing process such as in a rotary printing process the seven color channels are typically layered or superimposed one layer over another layer. The respective color channels are thus intermingled or combined. The camouflage pattern is thus the result of the combination of the colors of the seven color channels .

During the process of printing the camouflage pattern on a substrate the color channels are layered one on top of another. The layering of color channels in the camouflage pattern allows for the use of various dye formulations that have improved effect for breakup in the near infrared NIR and shortwave infrared SWIR spectrums. In this way the spectral response characteristics of the underlying color will affect the spectral response characteristics of the top color as is known to one of ordinary skill of the art.

In the camouflage pattern the dark cream color channel the bark brown color channel and the light sage color channel of the camouflage pattern are modified relative to the cream brown and pale green colors respectively of the W20601 pattern. As will be described in more detail below the colors of the camouflage pattern of the disclosed embodiments are modified to be highly saturated and appear more vibrant to increase internal contrast. Internal contrast in terms of camouflage patterns is the level of difference in brightness or hue between two or more neighboring or adjacent blotches of color. As is generally understood blotches and colors in a camouflage pattern will be perceived to merge together at certain distances or ranges. By increasing the contrast between different colors in the camouflage pattern of the present disclosure the camouflage pattern can maintain an effective range over greater distances before the colors in the camouflage pattern will appear to an observer to merge into a single monotone color.

As shown in the camouflage pattern comprises a plurality of blotches generally shown as blotches . For purposes of the present invention the definition of the term blotch or blotches as used herein refers to varying irregular shapes and regular shapes e.g. but not limited to circles ovals ellipses all of varying sizes dimensions appearance contrast and color. When all seven layers are superimposed one over another to form the camouflage pattern the entire surface of the camouflage pattern is aggregately covered by the blotches that result from the combination of the color channels . The camouflage pattern has very few short thin line elements and no long thin line elements such as the vertically oriented elongated thin line elements shown in the 861 909 and 915 Patents.

The top region includes region while the bottom region includes region . Regions and are regions of the brown layer where there is little or no brown color printed. The lack of brown color in the regions will allow the light sage color of the light sage channel to show through when the layers are combined.

The brown color channel includes a gradient that runs with the pattern repeat . Moving in the vertical or warp direction of the gradient begins with the lighter or top region followed by the central or dark region . Following the dark region the gradient reverts to a lighter region again in bottom region . This cycle repeats as the camouflage pattern is printed on the substrate or fabric.

The gradient is intensified in the vertical or warp direction meaning that the color contrast changes along the vertical direction. In the horizontal or fill direction the color contrast of the brown color channel is substantially uniform across the width of the pattern repeat . The gradient in the vertical direction is an element in the formation of the brown color of the camouflage pattern shown in .

The top region of the pattern repeat is an area where very little brown is printed onto the substrate or fabric. The middle region of the pattern repeat has considerably more brown color being printed. The brown color channel is mostly on top of the other color channels of the pattern as a result of the printing process. This combination of the color channel with the other color channels results in the camouflage pattern appearing darker to an observer and provides improved effectiveness in transitional environments.

The larger sizes and areas of the blotches will increase the effective range of the camouflage pattern of by increasing the range over which the observer will be able to discern a difference between the blotches . As range to target distance increases a pattern will be perceived to merge to a monotone color based on a number of factors. This range to target distance can be referred to as merge range. Some of these factors related to the merge range of a pattern are described in a paper authored by Alvin O. Ramsley entitled Camouflage Patterns Effects of Size Color U.S. Army Natick Research and Development Command 1979 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. The merge range is generally determined by the size and contrast of the blotches . The larger sizes and areas of the blotches will contribute to the pattern maintaining its internal contrast over a longer range than a pattern with smaller blotch sizes which will improve camouflage performance.

The larger sizes and areas of the blotches will increase the effective range of the camouflage pattern of by increasing the range over which the observer will be able to discern a difference between the blotches. As noted above as the range to target increases a pattern will merge to a monotone color based on a number of known perceptual factors. This merge range is determined by the size and contrast of the blotches. The larger blotches will contribute to the pattern maintaining its internal contrast over a longer range than a pattern with smaller element sizes providing for improved camouflage performance. The increase in size of the dark cream blotches and the bark brown blotches is not only advantageous in the visual spectrum as noted but also improves NIR and SWIR performance. The NIR and SWIR performance will be improved by contrast of the colors when viewed through infrared imagers. It will be appreciated that the relative blotch size of the dark cream color blotches of and the bark brown color blotches of are generally smaller than those of the dark brown and cream color blotches in W20601 although that is offset by the increased color contrast compared to W20601. The smaller blotch size is offset by a higher color contrast and a different set of seven colors.

The enlargement of the size of the dark cream blotches and bark brown blotches in the respective color channels allows the camouflage pattern to blend in better with larger clutter that may be apparent in a scene. The dark cream color of the dark cream color channel and the bark brown color of the bark brown color channel have the highest separation in color contrast relative to each other and is greater than that of the cream and the dark brown colors of W20601. Increasing the amount of area used in the camouflage pattern by the two colors that are of highest color contrast to each other dark cream and dark brown advantageously improves the effective range of the camouflage pattern .

The pattern repeat of the dark green color channel includes one or more vertically oriented striated gradients that run substantially horizontally across the pattern . Referring to moving from left to right across the pattern repeat the gradients of the dark green color channel will generally alternate between darker areas and lighter areas and variations of darker and lighter areas there between. This variation of darker and lighter areas in the example of is advantageous because it provides a random breakup in the design of the camouflage pattern shown in . The variation or random breakup in the camouflage pattern improves the ability of a substrate bearing the design of the camouflage pattern to blend in with the background of the environment in which the camouflage pattern is being used. The gradients extend horizontally along the pattern repeat and run through each pattern repeat . The cycle repeats as the pattern repeat is printed.

In the illustrations of the camouflage pattern and the respective color channels are represented in different shades of black. is a plan view of a single repeat of one embodiment of the camouflage pattern of in color. A repeat unit of the camouflage pattern is enclosed within the broken lines of the drawing. The broken lines do not form part of the ornamental design of the camouflage pattern .

As noted above the camouflage pattern of the disclosed embodiments makes use of gradients that blends with solid colors the solid colors of one or more of the color layers overlapping each other in the camouflage pattern . The use of gradients in this manner gives the appearance to the observer of having many different depths of color without creating a seemingly cluttered pattern that is distracting to the eye. The gradients shown in respectively are increased relative to the 02601 pattern and the 848 Patent to provide a more dramatic difference between the lightest and darkest areas of the camouflage pattern when the color channels are combined.

The gradients in the respective color channels of the camouflage pattern are positioned to avoid any signature cues that will draw the eye of the observer. Avoiding signature cues generally means that the blotches in the respective color channels are configured to avoid any single blotch from standing out in the overall pattern which would otherwise cause the eye to focus on that area because the blotch does not appear to belong there.

As noted earlier aspects of the camouflage pattern are a result of the combination of the brown color channel the light sage color channel and tan color channel . The lighter coloring of the top region of the pattern for the brown color channel shown in results in the light sage and tan colors showing through from the respective color channels .

Referring to in one embodiment the central region of the repeat of the brown color channel has a width in the warp direction of approximately 4.88 inches. There is a distance of approximately 8.16 inches in the warp direction between the central region and an edge of the top region where the saturation level of the brown varies from dark to light. There is also a distance of approximately 8.16 inches in the warp direction between the central region and an edge of the bottom region of the repeat of the pattern . Region which is part of the top and region which is part of the bottom region have respective widths in the warp direction of approximately 2.03 inches.

Referring now also to when the dark green color channel and the olive color channel are combined the regions where the dark green channel is the lightest will allow for the olive color from the olive color channel to show through.

Referring to while there is a general appearance of more color weighting or a heavier weighting of the brown color in certain portions such as the middle region of the camouflage pattern . This is not a result of the addition of brown coloring to the brown channel of but rather a blending of the different colors in the different channels that make brown. For example in one embodiment of the camouflage pattern the blotches combine with the blotches of the light sage channel of and the blotches of the tan channel of . The lightest regions of the brown channel will provide more or greater transparency to the blotches on the light sage channel and the blotches of the tan channel . The lighter coloring of the regions will improve the ability of the blotches to show through in those regions resulting in the camouflage pattern .

As illustrated by the different color channels of the camouflage pattern through the use of gradients in the horizontal and vertical directions across the repeat of the patterns and in combination with larger blotches of colors the improved effectiveness of the camouflage pattern of the disclosed embodiments is achieved. This allows the soldier wearing a garment with the camouflage pattern applied thereto to blend into various transitional environments as described above.

The enlargement of the size of the blotches in the different color channels improves the ability of the camouflage pattern to blend in with larger clutter that may be apparent in a scene. Increasing the amount of area used in the camouflage pattern by colors that are of highest contrast to each other improves the effective range of the camouflage pattern .

The pattern of the present disclosure and the pattern of the 848 Patent are composed of seven color channels as shown in Table 1 referred to earlier. In Table 1 color 6 of the 848 Patent generally corresponds to the bark brown color channel of the camouflage pattern and color 7 of the 848 Patent generally corresponds to the dark cream color channel of the camouflage pattern .

The average size of the cream colored blotches in the pattern of the 848 Patent is approximately 25621 pixels. The average size of the dark cream colored blotches in the pattern of the present disclosure is approximately 38031 pixels an increase of approximately 19.5 over the 848 Patent. The average size of all of the dark brown colored blotches in the pattern of the 848 Patent is approximately 11639 pixels. The average size of all of the bark brown colored blotches in the pattern is 16851 an increase of approximately 18.3 over the 848 Patent.

The ranges of percentages of color for one embodiment of the camouflage pattern of is generally defined in Table 2 below. The column labeled Scorpion W2 a.k.a. OCP Pattern illustrates the color percentages in the preferred embodiment of camouflage pattern . OCP stands for the Operational Camouflage Pattern.

Each color is a percentage of the overall pattern. Typically all the colors within the pattern add up to 100 except in the case of tonal gradient type patterns where the total colors may exceed 100 . As is reflected in Table 2 the percentage of the color of the bark brown channel in the camouflage pattern is approximately 7.7 . As is also shown in Table 2 above the percentage of the color in the dark cream channel of the camouflage pattern is approximately 6.6 . The color percentage results illustrated in Table 2 were arrived at using the Adobe Photoshop process described earlier herein.

The percentages and pattern repeat dimensions listed in Table 2 above are intended to be representative or approximate. The calculations used to find the values in Table 2 also assume that any corresponding changes in the warp or length direction also occur in the fill or width direction. For example if the pattern repeat is 90 from one element to the same element in the next pattern repeat the calculations in Table 2 assume that the distances from left to right are also 90 of what would be found in the original pattern.

Referring to the camouflage pattern consists of blotches that repeat also referred to herein as a pattern repeat . As noted the blotches of the camouflage pattern are generally horizontally oriented in the fill direction of the pattern repeat . The blotches are not vertically oriented in the warp direction of the pattern repeat as is generally the case of the blotches of the 861 909 and 915 patents. In one embodiment the pattern repeat will comprise an area measuring approximately 65.028 inches in the fill direction by 25.256 inches in the warp direction. The maximum dimensions of the repeat of pattern will be approximately 68 inches by 26.506 inches. In alternate embodiments the size and area of the pattern repeat can comprise any suitable dimensions.

In the development of the camouflage pattern of the present disclosure the W20601 pattern repeat in its entirety was reduced in one direction to fit on an approximately 25.25 vertical repeat warp direction down from an approximately 28.5 vertical repeat. The horizontal measurement fill direction remained stable at approximately 66.2 including the selvages. The changes to the size of the pattern repeat of the camouflage pattern of the present disclosure enables among other things easier implementation by textile printers so the pattern can be reproducible onto fabrics and substrates by additional printers.

Helmet covers are a fitted textile that will envelope a soldier s issued helmet. Helmet covers may be constructed with a nylon cotton twill fabric a material that is able to stretch to fit the round contour of the helmet. In accordance with a feature of the present invention a six color variant of the camouflage pattern was found to enhance a particular uniformity of the colors over a smaller area of the current pattern e.g. for use in the making of helmet covers. illustrates a grayscale version of one embodiment of a 6 color camouflage pattern . illustrates the camouflage pattern of in color. As will be described in more detail below the 6 color camouflage pattern may be applied to the helmet cover of the helmet illustrated in . It will be understood that the 6 color camouflage pattern may be printed on a fabric head cover such as a hunter s hat or even directly printed onto a helmet.

The color channels of the 6 color camouflage pattern include a brown color channel shown in the dark cream color channel of the bark brown color channel of the dark green color channel of the olive color channel of and the tan color channel of . The 6 color camouflage pattern does not include the brown color channel of and the light sage color channel of .

Because the original brown channel in the 7 color camouflage pattern combined with both the tan channel and the pale green channel the gradient or faded region occurring between the brown channel of and the tan color channel of had to be preserved to ensure aesthetic compatibility with the camouflage pattern used in uniforms and other individual equipment. Regions and of are examples of areas where the fading was modified to ensure aesthetic compatibility among the blotches where the colors were modified. The gradient in this brown channel affects only the blotches that are shared with the tan color layer of the remaining areas of the channel are uniform in coverage.

Table 3 below illustrates the ranges of percentages of color for one embodiment of the 6 color camouflage pattern of .

The color percentages in Table 3 above were obtained using the Adobe Photoshop computer graphics editor as described above.

The preferred embodiment of the present disclosure is a military field combat uniform and in particular the coat and trousers of the uniform with its associated accessories. These can include for example but are not limited to helmets boots and packs. illustrates a plan view of one embodiment of a uniform to which the camouflage patterns and have been applied. The uniform shown in includes a coat trousers and helmet . The helmet includes a helmet cover . The coat is the top that goes over an undershirt in an Army Combat Uniform. The broken lines showing a person in are for illustrative purposes only and form no part of the ornamental design of the camouflage patterns or . The broken lines illustrating the stitching and seams of the uniform in are for illustrative purposes only and form no part of the ornamental design of the camouflage patterns and .

The camouflage patterns and of the present disclosure can be reproduced on the substrate using any conventional method or process including for example dying rotary screen printing or digital inkjet printing process. Alternatively sublimation heat transfer or iron on transfer processes can be used. It will be appreciated that several methods can be used to apply or reproduce the color channels and camouflage patterns on the substrate according to the present disclosure. Different techniques such as scanning stencils templates or photocopying can be used to apply the camouflage pattern on various types of fabric materials and various substrates using dyes or inks.

During a rotary screen printing process for example the fabric of the substrate may first be dyed to match the lightest color of the pattern. The other colors channels may then printed on top of the dyed substrate. In one embodiment the rotary screen printing process for the camouflage pattern can include a printing sequence starting with the dark cream channel the tan channel the light sage channel the olive channel the dark green channel the brown channel and the bark brown channel . In alternative embodiments the printing sequence might vary by the particular printer being used. With digital inkjet printing the complete pattern can be printed onto the fabric line by line as the ink head moves across the width of the substrate . A similar process applies to the application of the camouflage pattern .

The aspects of the present disclosure have no special yardage requirements and can be used in the same manner as other patterns currently fielded by the United States Army. As is generally understood all patterns have a requirement for manufacturing of one large sized Army Combat Uniform of approximately 6 yards of a minimum of 60 inch wide fabric. Cuts can be made in any area of the cloth so that maximum usage of the cloth is achieved with less waste clippings. The cut and sew process will allow for random depiction of the pattern on different uniforms. This will help with blending of groups of Soldiers so that features of the pattern are not always in the same place on the uniform making it harder to identify the number of soldiers in a group if detected.

A computer based camouflage assessment involving a wide range of backgrounds and camouflage patterns was the subject of a test report in July 2014 by the U.S. Army Aberdeen Test Center ATC . ATEC Project No. 2012 DT ATC ACU01 F0728 Report No. ATC 11508 . The testing utilized a Pattern in Picture PIP virtual test process to assess the performance of camouflage patterns in terrains representative of those found within the combatant commands. The objective of this test was to determine whether there was a significant difference in performance between the Operation Enduring Freedom Camouflage Pattern OEFCP the subject of Design Pat. D592 861 Scorpion W2 Digital Transition Camouflage DTC pattern No. 1 and DTC No. 2 in a photo simulation blending test. The camouflage pattern identified as Scorpion W2 is the camouflage pattern that is the subject matter of the present patent application.

Seven uniform camouflage patterns were tested. Baseline systems with performance significantly different than transitional uniforms were included to provide context for the analysis. The seven patterns tested were Universal Camouflage Pattern UCP OEFCP Scorpion W2 DTC No. 1 DTC No. 2 Marine Corps Pattern MARPAT Woodland and MARPAT Desert.

A photo simulation of uniform pattern background composite images was created for presentation to a variety of soldier observers. Images of the seven uniform camouflage patterns under direct natural lighting were collected to paste into background images for the photo simulation test. The background images included woodland verdant dormant arid transitional dormant and transitional verdant.

The uniform pattern background composite images were organized and shown to soldier observers using a computer program that simultaneously presents the uniform pattern background composite images and records the human response data. Observers viewed the uniform pattern background composite images on the monitor. The uniform pattern background composite images were rated by the soldier observers to determine how well the uniform pattern and colors blended with the backgrounds into which they were inserted. The scale of the ratings was from 1 to 100 the higher the number the better the blending to the background. Table 4 below presents the ratings referred to as Average Blending Scores where higher blending scores are indicative of better performance. The Scorpion W2 pattern or camouflage pattern generally scored favorably across the five backgrounds presented in Table 4. A review of Table 4 shows that the camouflage pattern of the present disclosure is not significantly different in performance from OEFCP the 861 patent.

The aspects of the disclosed embodiments provide a camouflage pattern that when applied to a substrate is configured to provide improved concealment in both the visible near infrared NIR and shortwave infrared SWIR range of the electromagnetic spectrum. Through the use of gradients in both fill and warp directions combined with larger blotches of colors a well performing camouflage pattern is achieved that will allow a soldier wearing a uniform bearing the camouflage pattern to blend into various transitional environments.

The use of gradients that intersect with solid colors that overlap each other in the pattern gives the appearance of having many different blends and depths of color without creating a cluttered pattern that is distracting to the eye. This improves the effective range of a substrate such as a uniform with the camouflage pattern applied thereto meaning that an observer will perceive more break up of the camouflage pattern over longer distances.

The use of thin vertically oriented line elements in the warp direction of a pattern repeat is eliminated in the camouflage pattern of the disclosed embodiments. This improves the performance of the camouflage pattern across a wide range of terrains. As noted the thin vertically oriented line elements disposed in the warp direction that are used in some existing camouflage patterns will have a tendency to be perceived as merging together over shorter distances. Additionally some transitional environments may not include vertical terrain elements. The inclusion of vertically oriented thin line elements disposed in the warp direction of a camouflage pattern might compromise the effectiveness of the pattern due to the signature cues in the warp or vertical direction.

The optimization of the dyestuffs through layering and the inclusion of gradients provides improved performance of the camouflage pattern in visual near infrared and shortwave infrared spectrums. By increasing the amount of brown appearing in the pattern the selection of dyes and pigments available to achieve appropriate near NIR and SWIR performance in the overall pattern is improved. Strategic layering of the colors or color channels maximizes the NIR and SWIR effectiveness through the combination of dyestuffs to create blended colors and optimizes the effectiveness robustness of dyes to achieve optimum NIR and SWIR characteristics properties.

Every color channel or screen is used to print its own respective dye on the camouflage pattern with its own spectral reflectance characteristics. The dyes combine in the printing process such that if one dye is laid on top of another that base layer s reflectance characteristics will impact those of the dye above it resulting in a unique spectral response to a sensor at that location in the pattern. Where the camouflage pattern of the disclosed embodiments is made up of many instances of different amounts of the colors being combined with each other it results in a pattern with complex breakup characteristics that performs well without appearing cluttered.

Thus while there have been shown described and pointed out fundamental novel features of the invention as applied to the exemplary embodiments thereof it will be understood that various omissions and substitutions and changes in the form and details of devices and methods illustrated and in their operation may be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit of the invention. Moreover it is expressly intended that all combinations of those blotches and or method steps which perform substantially the same function in substantially the same way to achieve the same results are within the scope of the invention. Moreover it should be recognized that structures and or blotches and or method steps shown and or described in connection with any disclosed form or embodiment of the invention may be incorporated in any other disclosed or described or suggested form or embodiment as a general matter of design choice. It is the intention therefore to be limited only as indicated by the scope of the claims appended hereto.

